A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E££ OF THE £CIEJMCE AND ETHICg Of $PH\ITUAEI£M
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 67.—(Vol. III.—No. 28.) LONDON: DECEMBER 5> 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. Ill  .... ... 435
Certain Problems connected with Mediumship —To what Extent are
very Sensitive Mediums Morally Responsible for their Acts?—To
what Extent do the Thoughts of Sitters at seances influence the Mes¬
sages received ?—How should Mediums be protected from Danger
and Trouble ?   ...'  436
Continental Ghost Pictuivs ...     440
Meeting of the Dalston Association    441
A Trance Lecture...    :       443
Patenting a Planchette      444
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh ...  ;. ... v. 444
Poetrv.—Sonnet ... ... ...'   ... ...     445
Correspondence.—The Meeting at Finsbury; The St. John’s Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists; Madame Louise’s Mediumship; Orthodox
Spirit Messages...    ... ...    445
Spiritualism in Pimlico    446
Answers to Correspondents   446
Paragraphs:—Mediumship of a Baby, 442; Mr. Gerald Massey in
America, 442; St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, 446; Assyrian
and Egyptian Spiritualism, 446; Spirit Forms in America  447
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common eense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice^ to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetinos. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at-the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRA’, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 126, Fleet-street. Advertisement. Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Lately published,
HAT AM I ? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
CHI
T,
3.
4.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
Contents.
ap.
Introduction.
What am I?
The Man.
How we Grow.
How we live. /
What Life is.
The Beginning of Life.
The Germ.
How we die.
How we are Moved.
The Senses.
Of the Sense of Sight.
Of the Sense of Hearing.
Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
Of the Sense of Touch.
Of the Evidence of the Senses.
About Life.
Of the Brain.
The Mechanism of the Mind.
Classification of the Mental
Powers.
The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
I CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
| 26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
j 31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
82. The Argument.
33. Consciousness
I 34. Presumptive Proofs.
| 35. The Natural and the Supernatu ral.
36. What the Soul is.
- 37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
I 38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
I 40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
| 45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
. unsteady hand.—DatVy Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Rnsfoi
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest —South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: LONGMAN and Co., Patemoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary mid Treasurer.
434
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873,
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Corfiespondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.'
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions :—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. E. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, .| Miss Eanger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Eichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Eooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the followin dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Eochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, polorado.—S. A. Grant and Go., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Go., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street,
AUSTEALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Eussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IS TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
' President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, 1 Mr. Joseph Stephens7
Mrs. Amelia Corner, | Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mi\ E. J. Wilson.
■ Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
AUESTRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter eaieful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances-exe held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Eulo IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi ■
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening m each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Vac first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Eooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
COE A L. Y. TAPPAN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
Of the 23rd October—at Westbourne Hall,
ARE NOW BEING DELIVERED
EYEEY WEDNESDAY EVENING AT LAWSON’S EOOMS,
145, GOWEE-STEEET.
Doors open at 7. 30. Admission, Is. and 6d. each.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beareks for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
of Management.
Mr. Wm. Eichardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Mrs. M. A. Eichardson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Eecording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Street,
West Derby Eoad, Liverpool.
Corresponding Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Morningtbn Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc-
Uon, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into cons deration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Eichard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
DR. SEXTON will deliver TWO DISCOURSES On
SUNDAY, Doc. 7th, in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street,
Manchester; that in the Morning at 10.30, and in the Evening at 6 o'clock.
Subjects •
Morning.—“ SPIRITUALISM v. SECULARISM.”
Evening.—“ SPIRITUALISM AND THE FUTURE LIFE.”
Admission;—Front Seats, 6d.; Back Seats, 3d.
Dec. 5, 1873*
THE SDIDITUADIST.
435
SPIRIT TEACHING’S.*
No.. III.
Question as to a headache which resulted from the
previous communication.
Your headache was the result of the intensity of the
power, and the rapidity with which it was withdrawn
from you. We could not write on such a subject [War
and the treatment of criminals] without displaying
eagerness: for it is the most vital one that can con¬
cern those to whom we are sent. We would fain
impress on you the paramount importance of obeying
even those unalterable laws, which God has laid down
for you, and which you violate at your own peril.
Wars are but the product of your lust for gain, your
ambition, your angry, proud, vengeful passions. And
what is the product ? God’s fair works destroyed and
trampled underfoot: the lovely and peaceful results of
man’s industry destroyed : the holy ties of home and
kindred severed: thousands of families plunged into
distress : rivers of blood shed wantonly : souls unnum¬
bered rent from their earth-body to rush unprepared,
uneducated, unpurified into the spheres. Bad, all bad !
earthy, evil sprung from earth, and resulting in misery.
Till you know better than this, your race will progress
but slowly, for you are perpetually sowing seed which
produces a crop of obstacles to our work.
Much there is in social knowledge, and in the conduct
of State affairs, that you must un-learii : much that is
to be added to your knowledge.
Por instance, ye legislate for the masses, but ye deal
not with the offender. Your legislation must be
punitive, but it should be remedial too. Those whom
ye think insane ye shut up fast, lest they should injure
others. A few years ago, and ye tortured them, and
filled your mad-houses with many whose only crime it
was to differ from the foolish notions of their fellows,
or to be—as many were, and Are whom ye have thought
mad—recipients of undeveloped spirit influence. This
ye will one day know to your sorrow—that to leave the
beaten track is not always evidenceof a wandering mind.;
and to be the vehicle of spirit-teaching is not proof of
a mind unhinged. Prom many the power of proclaiming
their mission has been taken away, and it has been
falsely said that we have filled the asylums and driven
our mediums to madness, because blind and ignorant
men have chosen to attribute insanity to all who have
ventured to proclaim their connection with us and our
teaching. They have decided, forsooth, that to be in
communion with the spheres is evidence of madness;
therefore all who claim so to be are mad, and conse¬
quently must be shut up within the madhouse. And
because by lying statements they have succeeded in
affixing the stigma, and in incarcerating the medium,
* In the Spiritualist ot August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-rbad, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many : each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and. the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed,
they further charge on us the sin they have invented of
driving our mediums to madness.
Were it not ignorance it would be blasphemy. We
have brought nought but blessing to our friends. We
are to them the bearers of Divine inspiration. If
man has chosen to attract by his evil mind and evil life
congenial spirits who aggravate his wickedness, on his
head be the sin. They have but tended the crop which
he has already sown. He was mad already; mad in
neglect of his own spirit and body; mad in that he has
driven far from him the holy influences. But we deal
not with such. Ear more mad indeed are those besotted
drunkards whom ye deem not mad. To spirit-eye there
is no more fearful sight than those dens of wickedness
and impurity where the evil men gather to steep their
senses in oblivion, to excite the lustful and sensual
passions of their debased bodies, to consort with the
degraded and the impure, and to offer themselves the
ready prey of the basest and worst spirits who hover
around and find their gratification in living over again
their bodily lives. These are dens qf basest, most
hideous degradation; a blot on your civilisation, a
disgrace to your intelligence.
What do you mean by 'living over again their base
lives ?
These earth-bound spirits retain much of their earthy
passion and propensity. The cravings of the body are not
extinct, though the power to gratify them is withdrawn.
The drunkard retains his old thirst, but exaggerated;
aggravated by the impossibility of slaking it. It burns
within him the unquenched desire, and urges him to
frequent the haunts of his old vices, and to drive
wretches like himself to further degradation. In them
he lives again his old life, and drinks in satisfaction,
grim and devilish, from the excesses which he causes
them to commit. And so his vice perpetuates itself and
swells the crop of sin and sorrow. The besotted wretch,
goaded on by agencies he cannot see, sinks deeper and
deeper into the mire. His innocent wife and babe starve
and weep in silent agony, and near them hovers and
over them broods the guardian angel who fias no power
to reach the sodden wretch who mars their lives and
breaks their hearts.
This we shadow forth to you when we tell you that
the earth-bound spirit lives again its life of excess in
the excesses of those whom it is enabled to drive to ruin.
The remedy is slow, for such vices perpetuate them¬
selves. It can only be found in the moral and material
elevation of the race; in the gradual growth of purer
and truer knowledge; in advanced education in its
widest and truest sense.
Do children pass at once to a high sphere ?
No: the experience of the earth-life cannot so be
dispensed with. The absence of contamination ensures
a rapid passage through the spheres of purification, but
the absence of experience and knowledge requires to be
remedied by training and education, by spirits whose
special care it is to train these tender souls, and supply
to them that which they have missed. It is not a gain
to be removed from earth-life, save in one way—that
misuse of opportunities might have entailed greater loss
and have more retarded progress. The soul that gains
most is the soul that keeps ever before it the work
which has been allotted to it, which has laboured
zealously for its own improvement and the benefit of
its fellows, which has loved and served God, and has
followed the guidance of its guardians. This is the
>soul which has least to unlearn, and which rises in the
436
THE SPIRITtfALlST.
spheres. All vanity and selfishness in every form, all
sluggishness and indolence, all self-indulgence mars
progress. We say nought of open vice and sin, nor of
obstinate refusal to learn and to be taught. Love and
knowledge help on the soul. The child may have the
one qualification; it cannot have the other save by
education, which is frequently gained by its being
attached to a medium, and living over the earth-life
again. But many a child-spirit leaves the earth-life
pure and unsullied who would have been exposed to
temptation and grievous trial; and so it gains in purity
what it has lost in knowledge. The spirit who has
fought and won is the nobler one. Purified by trial, it
rises to the sphere set apart for the proven souls. Such
experience is essential; and for the purpose of gaining
it many spirits elect to return to earth, and, by attach¬
ing themselves to a medium, gain the special phase of
experience which they need. To one it is the cultiva¬
tion of the affections that is necessary; to another the
experience of suffering and sorrow to another mental
culture; to another the curbing and restraining of the
impulses of the spirit, control, even balance. All who
return, save those who, like ourselves, are charged with
a mission, have an object to gain : and in being asso¬
ciated with us and with you they gain their progress.
This is the one desire of spirit. More progress !
More knowledge! More love! till the dross is purged
away, and the soul soars higher and yet higher towards
the Supreme.
CERTAIN PROBLEMS CONNECTED WITH
MEDIUMSHIP.*
BY AVJXiLIAM H. HARBISOX.
When it became necessary to select a subject to bring
under your notice this evening, I asked your honorary
secretary to select one of two. The one was, “ Certain
Problems connected with Mediumship” and the other,
“ My Early experiences in connection with Spiritualism.”
Mr. Ely ton chose the former of these two subjects, so I
accordingly have the honour of bringing it before you
to-night.
TO 'WHAT EXTENT ABE VERY SENSITIVE MEDIUMS MORALLY
RESPONSIBLE EOR THEIR ACTS ?
The phenomena of mesmerism are so closely allied to
many of those of Spiritualism, that the study of the one
subject throws a considerable amount of light upon the
other. In fact, a great want at the present time is a
full and accurate knowledge of mesmerism ; but, in
consequence of the scientific world having for two
generations tabooed that subject, its literature is scanty
and its laws comparatively unknown. The phenomena
have not been studied so closely and continuously as
those connected with other sciences, and the progress of
human knowledge in this direction has been kept back
by the prejudices of men who ought to have guided
public opinion without let or hindrance, in whatever
direction they might have been led by the truths of
nature.
“Better late than never” is an old adage; so Spi¬
ritualists, and especially spiritual societies, should now
give every encouragement to mesmerism and mesmeric
lecturers, to gain, by observation and experiment, prac¬
tical knowledge of the subject, to accurately systematise
the facts, and to discover the principles underlying
them.
• * A paper read Thursday, last week, before the Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism.
i)EC. 5, 18?3.
The first £nd chief problem which I desire to submit
for your consideration this evening is the question—To
what extent are mediums responsible for many of their
acts, they being so frequently under the control of stronger
wills than their own ? A few words about the relation¬
ship of mesmerism and Spiritualism will help to make
my meaning clear.
In mesmeric lectures it is a common thing for the
“ biologist,” as he calls himself, to send persons to sleep
by means of a few passes; the subjects also often pass
into the same condition by merely gazing steadfastly on
something held in the hand, whilst under the impres¬
sion that a strange and mysterious power is acting upon
them. These sensitives are afterwards discovered to
be subject to the control of the will of the mesmeriser,
and they act under his orders as if in a dream. He
informs them that they are freezing, and they shiver
as if they were surrounded by the eternal snows of the
polar regions. He informs them that the floor is red-
hot, and they dance upon it as if it burnt them, or they
mount upon chairs to escape from the effects of the
imaginary heat. He tells them that pigeons are flying
overhead, consequently some of the sensitives whistle,
others poifit imaginary guns at the birds, and the scene
conjured up by his will is evidently real to them. Once
I saw some rough, uncultured men thus under the con¬
trol of Mr. Sheldon Chadwick in the school-rooms
opposite Abney-park Cemetery, and he told them that
friends of theirs in the immortal world were returning
to visit them. Tears streamed down their faces, a
sublime expression came over the countenances of
many, and the scene was one of the strangest I ever
witnessed.
The public at large are too fond of ridiculing that
which they do not understand; and this tone of mind
is reflected in the more popular newspapers : conse¬
quently, for many years all phenomena of a psycho¬
logical nature have been treated by them as imposture,
although the facts have now so multiplied in all direc¬
tions, and are so common in the homes of private
families, that that stage of public opinion as regards
mesmerism is becoming a thing of the past.
When totally ignorant of the subject of mesmerism,
I wished to know whether there was any truth in it or
not. Instead of reading newspapers, or listening to
mesmeric lecturers, of whose integrity I should know
nothing, I asked a gentleman who is present with us
this evening to allow me to make a few mesmeric
passes over him, in the endeavour to find out whether
there was any truth in the subject. He consented, and
in less than five minutes he was sound asleep, very
much to my astonishment, for I sat down on a chair
opposite him, and hoped that it was all right, and that
he would wake up again, otherwise the consequences
would have been awkward. Thus, in all cases of
doubt, a practical experiment at home, in the midst of
friends, is of more use in producing conviction than
listening for months to any amount of argument. One
point in which mesmeric and spiritual phenomena are
allied is exemplified in the circumstance that a mes¬
meric lecturer can find certain sensitives who will
speak any words he pleases in obedience to the silent
exercise of the will. Spirits out of the earthly body
probably control trance mediums in the body in the
' same way.
One day, at a seance at Mrs. Kislingsbury’s, I was
asked to mesmerise a medium who is now present, after
which I found that every sentence 1 uttered was re-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
437
Dec. 5, 1873.
peated by the sensitive. Next, I formed some sentences
in my own mind, and willed that she should speak
them, but no result followed; it was necessary for me to
utter the words aloud.
The journal of the French Medico-Psychologique
for April, 1857, narrates how M. Lunier mesmerised a
young girl aged fourteen, of the name of Lise, and he
testified that several times he dictated to her mentally
a word or sentence which she wrote down, as if she had
heard it spoken. Thus M. Lunier obtained results
a step in advance of my own.
Mr. J. M. Peebles told me that once he controlled
a medium, and by will made him speak whatever he
wished. I forgot to ask Mr. Peebles whether it was
necessary for him to utter his words aloud, and if any
public report of these remarks should reach his eye in
America, perhaps he will make known the full details
of the ease.
There are several friends here to-night who have
seen messages given through the hand of a writing
medium, which messages were willed by a friend
standing near, whose finger at the time simply touched
the wrist of the medium. The words thus willed were
written at once by the hand of the medium with con¬
siderable velocity, and further experiments on this point
might be of very considerable value. Spirits say they
often have much difficulty in giving proper names
through mediums. Could names of persons not known
to the medium just mentioned, be written as easily as
the other thoughts of the person touching her wrist ?
In all the preceding cases a mesmerist, who is but a
spirit encased in a mortal body, controlled another per¬
son to say what he wished. If it be assumed, as it is
but reasonable to do, that a spirit out of the body can
do the same thing and make a medium in the body
speak what she or he wishes, a distinct connection is
established between the phenomena of mesmerism and
those of Spiritualism. Moreover, a field is opened for
experiment, which is a very important point, considering
that in Spiritualism so many of the phenomena appear
to be entirely beyond the domain of experiment. The
preceding remarks have laid a foundation for the utter¬
ance of the first problem, which I respectfully sub¬
mit to the consideration of this society to-night. If
spirits out of the body can get their sensitives so com¬
pletely under control, as in the cases of human mes¬
merism already mentioned, to what extent are mediums
reponsible for their acts ? For instance, if a mesmerist
wills that a subject under his control shall, as the
Scotchman said, “ Go out into the middle of the street
and swear at large,” who is responsible for the act?
Is the mesmerist responsible, or the person helplessly
under his control?
If this point be admitted it does not wholly clear up
the question of the moral responsibility of mediums.
There are times when mediums are said to be in their
normal state, but even then there is evidence that spirits
can stimulate their thoughts or their passions, so as to
exercise more or less influence over their acts. I have
known very sensitive mediums to be made suddenly to
utter sentences not their own, whilst in the midst of
ordinary conversation. I also remember an instance
in which a lady sat for two hours in her own drawing
room carrying on a conversation with the rest of the
company, and it was accidentally discovered several
days afterwards that she was in a trance at the time,
and knew nothing whatever of the circumstances or of
the conversation; therefore, the absolute spirit control
of mediums is not confined to set seances, and, probably,
their thoughts and feelings are more or less influenced
by other individualities at all times.
There is a great want in England of mediums through
whom evidence of the personal identity of the spirits
who profess to communicate can be proved. In America
there are several good test-mediums, so in this respect
our Transatlantic cousins have the advantage of us. If
a medium is so sensitive that any spirit, good, bad, or
indifferent accompanying any mortal who may come
into the presence of that medium, shall have power to
control his organism, his own, individuality must be
destroyed, at all events for the time being, to a very
great extent. To what degree, then, should a medium
of this kind be considered responsible for his acts, and
to what extent should Spiritualists be held responsible
for the acts of such sensitives, it being certain that by
the exercise of proper care on the part of friends of the
medium many dangers may be averted? There are
some few very experienced Spiritualists, who hold the
extreme idea that some of our most sensitive mediums
may be away from their bodies for weeks, or even
months at a time, leaving them under the control of
some foreign intelligence, either with or without their
own consent. Before any such ideas had occurred to
me, or been mooted to me by others, consequently before
any such thoughts were in my own mind, a message
was given to me through the mediumship of Dr. J. It.
Newton to the effect that he had tasted all that be
would ever know of death, and was practically but one
of a band of spirits who were controlling his bodily
organism for useful purposes, beneficial to mankind at
large. He was an extremely sensitive medium, so
sensitive that if anybody of a positive turn of mind sat
and talked to him for more than ten minutes at a time
he had a tendency to fall into a trance sleep.
TO WHAT EXTENT DO THE THOUGHTS OP SITTERS AT SEANCES
INPLUENCE THE MEsSAGES RECEIVED ?
Quitting the question of the amount of moral respon¬
sibility of mediums for their own acts, I will bring
forward another problem, namely, “ To what extent are
the messages through mediums derived from the thoughts
of persons present at the seance ? ”
FrOm time to time a great deal has been published
in the spiritual periodicals about the mediumship of
Miss Lottie Fowler, the American clairvoyante, and a
critical description of what I know in connection with
her mediumship will aid in explaining the nature of the
problem ^
Soon after Miss Fowler came to England, I met her
for a few moments at a public meeting and did not see
her again until a week or two afterwards, when I called
upon her unexpectedly and alone, for a seance. I went
alone in consequence of being aware that the revelations
are often more confused when the influences of several
persons in the room act at the same time upon a sensitive.
She sat in the chair opposite me, took me by the
hand, and began to shiver. Her hand gradually became
cold, her eyeballs rolled up in an unnatural manner,
and she passed into the trance state, after which she was
controlled by a remarkably talkative spirit who called,
herself “ Annie,” who proceeded to enlighten me about
my own affairs, past, present, and to come. I took
down what she said in shorthand, and my first impres¬
sions about it were, that with some few exceptions, the
revelations were of a very foggy and indefinite nature,
but afterwards there were good reasons for changing
that opinion.
438
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873,
The circumstance which made most impression upon
me at the time was this: Annie proceeded to describe
a house, which I did not recognise, and I was speculating,
as she spoke, whether it might not have been a farm¬
house in which some years of my early life were spent.
While these thoughts were passing through my mind
Annie said, “It is not the house you are thinking
about, but another.” I said, “ What house am I
thinking about ? ” and Annie proceeded to describe it
most accurately. She told me of the road leading to it,
of the garden by its side, of the pond with willow trees
in front, of the large mass of trees which looked like a
wood, but which was not a wood, to the right of the
house; it was not large enough to be properly called a
wood. She also said the whole scene was just outside
the village. Did she really see this house ? I think
not, except in my thoughts, for her description of it
was exactly the same as my own description of it
would have been, had I been called upon for one. She
also described it from the same point of view that I
should have selected, but she stated one thing not in my
mind, namely, that she saw a large black dog inside the
house. I have no recollection of having seen a large
black dog there, so if her revelation in any way came
from my mind, that black dog, was and is so com¬
pletely forgotten that it cannot even now be brought to
memory.
On examination of the large amount of testimony
given by different persons in the spiritual periodicals,
during the past few years, about the revelations concern¬
ing their past lives, made to them through Lottie
Fowler’s mediumship, it may be see'n that the greater
part of what they were told, had been at some time in
their own minds. Consequently, to clear up this
matter, inquirers who publish facts relating to clair¬
voyance, should be careful to separate revelations
made about occurrences known to themselves, and
revelations about circumstances not within their know¬
ledge.
Yet the assumption of thought-reading, or of the
influence of one mind over another, will not cover the
whole ground, should anybody seek to use this argument
to do away with the idea of the intervention of spirits.
On that same day, Miss Fowler told me that in a few
days time, I should meet a friend ill with a sore throat,
and that a little later still, he would have a fever, but
that it would be nothing very serious, he would soon
be all right again. A few evenings afterwards, I met
a very energetic member of this Association, who
also is present with us to night. He complained of
having a sore throat, and he was well wrapped up in
consequence. Miss Fowler’s prophecy did not occur to
me at the time of meeting him, but the whole thing
flashed into my mind next morning. Shortly after¬
wards I told him of her revelation, and asked him
whether he had had a fever ? He told me he had had
a slight attack of fever, down at Brighton. I remarked
in reply that it must have been a very slight one, for I
had not heard anything about it. He replied that at
all events it was sufficiently serious to bring him under
the hands of the doctor. These circumstances were
certainly remarkable, although if they stood by them¬
selves, and no analogous facts in relation to clairvoyance
were on record, coincidence might be brought in as an
explanation. At any rate there was no thought-reading
of any kind in this case.
That same day Miss Fowler revealed to me certain
events which were to happen in the future, and she
narrated certain business occurrences, which, I then, in
my own mind, expected would happen. She described
certain persons, places, and furniture most accurately.
Time passed away, but the events prophesied did not
take place.
I asked Annie how she obtained the information ?
She said that she saw spirits about me, and was telling
me what they had told her to repeat. Sometimes she
could not see these spirits clearly, and she had a difficulty
in getting messages from them. Assuming this statement
to be accurate, possibly she' may have gained her
information from spirits near me, almost as limited in
their knowledge as myself, just as many of the voice-
spirits who accompany certain physical mediums, are
on the same mental plane with the medium, and do not
know much more than the medium himself. It is as
easy to assume this, as to assume thought-reading.
Time and experience alone will furnish the solution of
problems like these.
Some other things she told me were of a symbolical
nature, much resembling in character ‘some of the
revelations of Swedenborg. I could not understand
their meaning.
One other good case of independent clairvoyance,
or of the independent action of spirits, in which
neither the mind of the medium nor the minds of
any of the persons present could have been
supposed to produce the results, occurred at a seance at
which Mr. N. F. Dawe, of 2/ Portman chambers,
Portman-square, myself, and others, were present. The
circle was small and harmonious. Miss Fowler (or
Annie rather), told a lady present, that she saw a coffin
near her, which was not her own, and that her son was
ill with a fever.* Mr. Dawe, who did not wish the
lady to be frightened, told Annie it was all nonsense,
that the absent son was quite well, and that his mother
had received a letter from him only that morning,
stating him to be in good health and spirits. Annie
accordingly said nothing more upon the subject.
Several weeks later a telegram came from Liverpool,
announcing that the son of the lady had been taken ill
with the yellow fever, and died in a hospital at Valparaiso,
South America. It was afterwards ascertained that at
the very time Lottie Fowler announced at this seance
held in the west end of London, that the son of the
lady was ill of a fever, he was actually ill with the
fever in South America ; he died not many hours after
Lottie Fowler made the statement.about the coffin.
This seems to be a good clear case of true psychological
revelation, with which the minds of the persons present
had nothing to do.
The gentleman through whose writing mediumship
spirits have recently given extracts from their own
writings previously unknown to the medium, which
extracts have been discovered to be true on subsequent
research in the British Museum Library and elsewhere,
finds that he cannot get reliable messages except when
sitting in a room by himself. He can, however, get the
messages in a crowded room, provided that the thoughts
of nobody present are directed towards him, and that
the persons present do not know that he is receiving
spirit messages.
Dr. Dunn, the medium who accompanied Mr. Peebles
in his recent tour round the world, told me that once
he was a test medium, for answering sealed letters
directed to spirits. He sat in a room by himself, with
his left hand on the letter, when his other hand began
apparently automatically to write the reply. When
Dec. 5, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
439
anybody was in the room with him at the time, the
answers were unreliable, and sometimes confused.
At Miss Cook’s seances, and at some others, where
materialisation phenomena are produced, the spirits
often say that the chief use of the cabinet is to get the
medium free, to some extent, from the influences of the
sitters in the circle. The singing so constantly demanded
at seances tends to prevent concentration of thought
upon the medium ; it may possibly tend also to produce
synchronously certain physiological actions.
Mr. and Mrs. Jencken informed me a few days ago,
that their little baby, less than two months old, is a
medium. When Mr. Jencken holds it over a table,
raps come from the table. As the baby cannot be
supposed to be troubled with preconceived opinions, or
theological or other kind of bias, it would be deeply
interesting to know the nature of all the messages given
through its mediumship. Every word should be care¬
fully written down. Will the communications pi’ove to
be absolutely reliable and unchanged spirit messages ?
Will they be of the same nature as if obtained through
the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken ? Will they partake
of the nature of the thoughts of each person who may
hold the baby over the table to get raps ? Will the
presence of two or more persons in the room influence
the character of the messages ? The results of experi¬
ments on these points will be deeply interesting.
Before quitting this subject of the causes influencing
the reliability of revelations obtained through medium-
ship, the method used by the natives of Natal to
increase the reliability of clairvoyance, maybe mentioned.
They give their clairvoyants impepo to eat for the
purpose. Could not some of this impepo be obtained
by the Ralston Association from the savages, through
the kindness of Canon Calloway, of Springvale, South
Africa, and be carefully administered by a medical
gentleman to a clairvoyant, say Miss Lottie Powder,
who is ever willing to sacrifice herself to the cause of
science ? The results would be valuable, and there
would be a large attendance of members on the occasion.
HOW SHOULD MEDIUMS BE PROTECTED PROM DANGER AND
TROUBLE ?
Before closing this brief .address, it may be well to
raise the question, “ How can mediums be protected by
Spiritualists?” If Spiritualism were to be defined as
the science of the affections, it would not be very far
from the truth, and it is a very great error to approach
the subject from the physical side. My early investiga¬
tions were chiefly made from a physical science point of
view. The great idea was to apply tests, not for my
own satisfaction, but for the benefit of others too indolent
to inquire for themselves. I sought to obtain the pheno¬
mena under such conditions of mechanical accuracy,
as to exclude questions as to integrity of character,
spirituality, and the higher faculties of the human
being altogether from the problem.. I found myself
baffled at every point. Physics has thrown no
light upon the causes, or laws of any of the phenomena
of Spiritualism, and although certain physical conditions
to a certain extent appear to favour the production of
the phenomena, right mental conditions have infinitely
more power.
In the whole of this subject physical demonstration
seems as a rule, not without exceptions, to succeed and
not to precede the spiritual state. AVhen people meet
together who know they do not cheat each other, and
who have a truthful medium in their midst, the pheno¬
mena take place with great power; but let a man enter
that company in an unfriendly spirit, or governed by
impure motives—such as personal ambition or the idea
he is a great authority sitting in judgment upon people
less intelligent than himself—then those marvels of
physics, which he would almost give his ears to behold,
occur with less power, or cease altogether. Yet, to
meet the requirements of this class of mind, there are
a few mediums, like the Davenports, who can bear the
roughest of influences, and to those mediums should
Spiritualists recommend such persons to go.
The lower spirits seem to have more power than the
higher' ones over common matter; hence those dis¬
turbances which take place in haunted houses are nearly
all caused by spirits of a very low order, a murder or
some other crime having usually been committed on the
spot.' Spirits of a low order, but possibly with good
intentions, may surround powerful physical mediums;
and mediums surrounded by this class of spirits are the
right persons to be brought into contact with those who
are merely hard materialists with no natural spirituality
of character.
Perhaps, then, the best way of protecting mediums is
to so arrange our spirit circles that inquirers shall have
to begin at the beginning, and to work their way up.
They should begin with raps and tilts, and with the
more common phenomena, but not be allowed to come to
the best circles until they gain some understanding of the
principles which govern the phenomena, and have
acquired the knowledge that these things belong more
to the realm of spirit than to the realm of its servant,
matter. The higher mediums will then be saved from
annoyance, the phenomena will develope with more
rapidity, and the mediums will be protected from
those dangers to which they are subjected by adverse
influences. Apparently, when persons of a low order
of mind constantly surround a medium, spirits of a
correspondently low order are obliged to act upon the
medium to meet the requirements of the mortals pre¬
sent, thereby dragging the medium lower both mentally
and morally.
A statement was printed some time ago, in Public
Opinion, to the effect that in Paris it was a recognised
fact that, if assistants of good character were required
in any branch of business, Spiritualists were, as a general
rule, better than others. If Spiritualism could be re¬
duced to mechanics, that sentence could never have been
written, because both saints and sinners can be united
without any difficulty in one opinion as regards physical
facts. For instance, a burglar and a bishop will each
believe beyond question that the crowbar of the said
burglar is three feet long, if a yard measure prove it so
to be. Thus, physical facts merely serve to unite good
and bad alike, whereas spiritual facts, in which
questions of personal integrity and truthfulness of
character become an essential element, can only unite
people who have as much faith in the integrity of each
other as in the integrity of ropes and chains. Those who
believe the testimony of bars of iron only to be reliable
and the testimony of human beings so rotten as to
be utterly useless, have no business inside the ranks
of Spiritualism, which demonstrates that there may be
as much integrity in human nature as in iron bars; and
that persons devoid of such integrity find it difficult t®
get into our ranks, is a circumstance which is highly
beneficial to the character of the movement.
To recapitulate—The problems mooted in this paper
are as follows, and I suggest that they be discussed in
regular order:—
440
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873.
1. To what extent are powerful mediums morally
responsible for their acts ? 2. To what extent do the
thoughts of sitters at seances influence the messages
received ? 3. What is the best method of protecting
mediums from danger ? 4. Why should not the Ralston
Association, or some few of its members, try experiments
in connection with mesmerism and clairvoyance ?
So long as we do not know accurately to what extent
the thoughts of mortals and the thoughts of spirits are
mixed up in messages received through mediumship, it
is somewhat premature for Spiritualists to declare to the
general public that the spirits teach this, that, or the
other doctrine, although on certain points, such as a
state of progression after physical death, and the non¬
reality of eternal punishment, they all agree. Many
problems connected with mediumship require solution
before much can be said about the nature of the life of
the freed spirit.*
CONTINENTAL GHOST PICTURES.
Recently Baron Kirkup, of Florence, has been giving
attention to the subject of spirik photographs, and has
learned by sad experience that the facilities for manu¬
facturing sham ones are occasionally brought into
illegitimate use. Some correspondence between Baron
Kirkup and Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., is now lying before
us, and from it we glean that Baron Kirkup once had
a medium whom he could trust and with whom he
could get spirit pictures. But when this medium left
Florence, another photographer took his place. The
latter was a Tuscan, and when Baron Kirkup went to
the studio foUsit-for his portrait, the new assistant
photographer told him he also was a medium. The
Baron paid little attention to the remark, as he only
wanted a likeness of himself. When he called again
for the proofs, he was offered four excellent photographs,
all of which had curious, but frightful, figures of spirits
upon them. I
The Baron says to Mr. Crookes :—
I asked him who they were? He did not know ; it was not
the first time he had met with such results. He seemed very
indifferent about it, and not at all surprised. That evening I
asked my spirits if these were evil spirits ? “ No.” Why
are they so ugly ? “ Because they choose to come as they
are, and they were ugly,‘besides, when alive.” Who were
they? “ Relations and friends of the photographer,of course.”
There is not the same perfect test of identity that there was
for the portraits I sent you lately, all which persons I knew
when alive in this world, and can answer for their perfect
likeness, and I had obtained their promise to meet me and
make their appearance with my mediums. In the present
case the photographers charged no more than the usual price
of a caHe de visite of one person, and they had no notice of
my visit, nor time to prepare shrouds and corpses.
No sooner had the Baron finished this letter than he
found reason to add a postscript, in which he says :—
After writing the above, I enclosed the photographs, in
doing which I perceived they had been tampered with.
When I went for the proofs they gave me four only ; I had
ordered a dozen, and I returned next day for the other eight.
I found them altered ; the photograph number one has a nose
in the first proof, the nose was the usual hole one sees in a
skull, with a thin bone inside, which divides it vertically.
The orbits were empty, and the teeth all visible, even the
back ones. The next has a new nose, and eyes, and cheeks,
why I cannot imagine, nor how it was done, as it is painted
light over dark, which is difficult with water colours.
In photograph number two the process is simpler and
easier. A piece of white cloth is painted on the face of the
figure to the left, which is holding its hand with all its fingers
* The discussion which followed the reading1 of this paper will he found
upon the next page.
open. The face, before it was thus concealed, had all the
features reduced to mere holes. I must go and inquire about
it, and will let you know if I learn anything. To me it looks
suspicious, and so does the cold indifference of the man, who
has not thought it worth his while to come and drink tea with
me, and inquire of my spirits who his deceased friends are
who came to my sitting uninvited.
In a subsequent letter Baron Kirkup says :—
The other day I sent you three photographs of different
spirits, two of which had been retouched by the painter of
the photographic establishment. I asked him “ why he did
so,” and I could get no answer. When I got home, I inquired
of my own spirit friends what was the man’s motive, and
they told me it was well meant ; he thought to please me by
making the faces less hideous. I returned, and ordered some
new proofs, as he said the negatives were preserved, telling
him not to retouch them. I now send you two original proofs
their history forms a new phase in the production of spirit
photographs. I believe them to be real and genuine, though
they have not the identity of those first subjects whom I had
known well in their lifetime in this world, and who came at
my request most punctually. Mind this is only opinion; but
the facts are these:—I went unexpectedly and found a new
man, whom I had never seen before. I went alone, without
either of my mediums, and only required a portrait of myself.
He took two photographs on one plate in fifteen seconds, as
is their custom ; he then asked me to sit still, and let him try
another, as he wished to have a particularly good one. I
agreed, supposing he intended to sell them, and that my
crosses were the attraction. When I went some days after
for the proofs, he gave me four (l had-ordered a dozen of
each), one of them being without spirits. I was charged only
the price of a common aajrte de visite of one person. Now, if
he had to hire all those persons, and pay for their dresses, it
must have been expensive, and I went quite unexpectedly.
There was no time for preparation ; he had never seen me
before, and did not require or expect these apparitions. He
seemed as much surprised as I was, and did not know any of
the spirits, though friends and relations of his, and not bad
spirits, as I suspected from their ugliness. I am not a
medium, it must have been himself.
A few days later Baron Kirkup wrote another letter,
doleful in its tone. He says to Mr. Crookes :—
I sent you my last photographs, one of which was a portrait
of myself, accompanied by a figure in white drapery, with the
face of a corpse, and I had previously sent you the same, with
the face painted over, as I thought, to make it look less hideous.
I blamed them for taking so great a liberty without giving me
notice. Since then I sent the death’s head to a person in
Rome, who suspected a fraud, and washed the dead face,
I which came off, and discovered a living face underneath it,
which I had supposed to be the repainted one. You have got
both photographs, and can examine them at your ease.
After so palpable a proof of their cheating, I have no diffi¬
culty in believing that the living figure was taken- on a
separate plate of glass, and then transferred to the negative
of my portrait, and the face afterwards changed by re¬
painting to that of a corpse, to attract notice and obtain
customers.
Baron Kirkup then gives strong reasons for sup¬
posing that the owner of the photographic establish¬
ment knew nothing about it, he being a man of good
standing, and that the tricks were played by his
assistants.
A story has been floating in London for some time past,
about a disbeliever in Spiritualism having been carried a mile
or two by spirits from a seance at which he was present.
After getting him out of one seance room, the spirits kindly put
on his coat and hat lest he should catch cold, and not being
able to get him into the other seance room of our respected
friend Mr. Stokes, they dropped him into a back yard Outside
the house. Understanding that the gentleman who flew thus
like an owl by night, will not bear testimony in the matter
himself, nor give his name, no good can accrue to Spiritualism
from any publication of the alleged circumstances. Is he the
same person once described in the Medium'the,“square
man in a round hole,” who exhibited at a seance his clever¬
ness in imitating genuine spiritual manifestations 1
Dec. 5, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
441
MEETING OF THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION.
On Thursday last week, at the ordinary weekly meeting of
the Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, at their
rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., Mr. Alfred E. Lovell,
president, occupied the chair.
Mr. W. H. Harrison read a paper—which is published npon
another page—on “ Certain Problems connected with Medium-
ship.”
The President stated that he thought it would be best that
the three heads into which the paper was divided should be
discussed seriatim. The first head was “ To what extent are
powerful physical mediums responsible for their actions.”
Mr. Algernon Joy was of opinion that mediums could not
be held fairly responsible for actions which they might commit
whilst under control, but that they were in a degree responsible
for allowing themselves to be influenced by undeveloped
spirits, who they knew would cause them to commit bad
actions. He had always found in his experience, that where
mediums were careful to sit only with moral and good people,
they very rarely were subjected to adverse or evil influences.
He instanced the case of a lady at Manchester, who was taken
care of by a certain good spirit named “Estelle,” who kept
her medium out of mischief, guarded her from bad influences,
and frequently took her out shopping under control, in which
condition the medium invariably made better bargains than
when in her normal state. Only on one occasion did a bad
spirit succeed in getting hold of this medium ; and then, had
it not been for the superior influence of “ Estelle,” the bad
spirit would have caused the medium to throw herself down a
flight of stairs.
Mr. W. Volckman said, that in the paper just read, no dis¬
tinction appeared to have been drawn between the influence
of a spirit over a sensitive medium, and the influence of a
powerful over a weak-minded person. There were many men
and women—weak-minded persons—who were led to do evil
by others possessing stronger wills. Were they, or those
persons who led them astray, to be blamed.
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore said that for many years previous to the
advent of modern Spiritualism he had been a close student of
the phenomena of mesmerism, and his knowledge of that sub¬
ject had greatly aided him when the phenomena of Spiritualism
at length came under his notice. Although he fully believed
in the actual personal responsibility of a medium, or of a mes¬
meric subject, to a very great extent, yet it was clear that the
medium or subject was to a great degree, when under the in¬
fluence of the spirit or the mesmeric operator, subject to their
control. But he did not believe that it was in the power of
any mesmerist to lead any sensitive person to commit a bad
or immoral act, unless there was previously a tendency to
commit such sets in the person he influenced. Some mes¬
merists did not agree with him upon this point, which had been
one of great contention between his old friend Dr. Ashburner
and himself. In all his extensive experience, he had found
that the same rule held good with regard to spirit influence.
Mediums of good principle could not be influenced to do what
in their normal condition they would consider wrong, and re¬
gard with horror and disgust. His whole knowledge of the
subject assured him that unless mediums had proclivities for
evil, the spirits could not make them commit evil. If bad
spirits did for a time annoy and interfere with good mediums,
it was simply the result of inharmonious conditions for the
time being, which conditions could always, with proper know¬
ledge and care, be remedied. If bethought that all mediums
could at any time be influenced by evil spirits to commit bad
actions, he, for one, would have grave doubts as to whether it
would be right to pursue experiments on the subject of Spiri¬
tualism at all.
A Lady Member narrated how a servant in her family was
a powerful physical medium, and that on one occasion the
manifestations through her had been of^an objectionable cha¬
racter in the form of direct writing. But this happened when
a sceptical and ill-natured person, strongly impressed with the
idea of trickery being practised upon him, was present at the
seance, and who annoyed and irritated the medium consider¬
ably. Messages, badly spelt, and of a disgusting nature, were
given, and the gentleman mentioned the circumstances at his
club.
Mr. G. W. Pearce was convinced that unless the ten¬
dencies of a medium were improper, the communications
would, as a rule, be of a very kindly spirit, but still the
general influence of spirits upon mediums was a fair
subject for discussion; the opinions of Mr. Luxmoore, with his
varied experience of many years, were most useful and reliable.
Still, bethought that enquirers should not plunge more deeply
into the subject, without duly noting the effect of spirit con¬
trol upon the various kinds of mediums, but should investigate
with the special desire to discover whether or no the control
of a pure minded medium by impure or undeveloped spirits
would influence such a medium in a direction contrary to the
general tenor of his or her life. He added that it was clear to
him from his experience that mediums were not, even when
in their normal state, at all times responsible for their actions.
He would give an illustration. A young friend of his, aged
about twenty, by name Bryant, was one day walking by him¬
self about twenty yards in front of two friends, one of whom
was an amateur mesmerist. This latter addressing the other
said, “ You see that young man in front of us, I will cause him
to suddenly stop and remain fixed until we overtake him.”
Immediately Mr. Bryant stood still and remained immovable
until overtaken by the other two. The mesmerist then said
to him, “ Why are you standing still, Mr. Bryant ? Will you
not come on with us ?” “ Standing still,” said he ; “ well
really I don’t know' why I did stop. If I had any reason I’ve
forgotten it. Yes, I’ll go on with you.” Mr. Pearce added that,
knowing the exceeding sensitiveness of this young gentleman,
he himself, when in his company at the house of his father,
asked permission to be allowed to try to exert an influence
over him. He asked him to go out of the room, and stand
about a yard or two from the door, which was to be shut.
Mr. Pearce then asked the company present what he should
will him to do, and they said, “ to come up close to the door.”
He willed this, and in a few moments Mr. Bryant was heard
bumping against the door, and shouting out “ I am close
against the door.” The company then desired Mr. Pearce to
“will” him back again, and he did so, Mr. Bryant falling
back away from the door. The experiment was afterwards
repeated by Mr. Pearce going out of the room and Mr. Bryant
remaining within, Mr. Pearce being accompanied by one of
the guests, to w'hom he imparted his intentions in the order in
which he wrilled Mr. Bryant to carry them out. This was
done to prove to the company that there was no collusion be¬
tween himself and Mr. Bryant. Everything that he willed to
have done by Mr. Bryant was so done by him. Mr. Pearce
continued that he had reason to believe that there was a cor¬
relation of forces in the realm of metaphysics, as there wras in
physics, and therefore if the purely motor muscles could be
influenced without a consciousness on the part of the medium
of how or in what direction the influence was to be exerted,
the more interior planes of the mind might be reached and
acted upon, without the operatee being conscious of an ex-
ternal'power controlling him.
Dr. Henry Smith said that he had listened with the greatest
interest to Mr. Harrison’s paper, and had gathered from it much
that coincided with his own views on the subject. He would
give an instance of a bad spirit controlling a good medium.
Some time ago at Nottingham he (Dr. Smith) engaged a re¬
porter, a Baptist and a very good and worthy man, to report
some meetings at which he lectured. The reporter told him
that he thought all Spiritualists to be insane. However, this
reporter attended two seances by way of experiment, and was
found to be, to his own utter astonishment, a powerful phy¬
sical medium. One day, while attending professionally an
election meeting, this unlucky reporter was suddenly pos¬
sessed by the spirit of one of the notorious “ Nottingham
Lambs,” who made him throw down his book and pencil, and
set to work fighting furiously at all who came near. Some of
those present with great difficulty took him away, fully per¬
suaded he had gone mad, and when he recovered he had not
the slightest recollection of what he had done whilst under
influence. Now this reporter was a good and moral man, a
member of a strict religious community, a,nd yet he was sub¬
jected to such an evil influence quite beyond his control.
Mr. Harrison, in the course of his reply, said that in the case
put by Mr. Yolckman, the weak-minded person had the power
of applying his own reasoning faculties to the arguments of
the stronger minded individual, but in mediumship the rea¬
soning powers of the sensitive were not consulted. The medium
was a passive instrument in the hands of another. If mediums
were irritated or went into a passion, unpleasant manifestations
were sure to follow ; he had seen such cases often, and especi¬
ally remembered one which took place when some enquirers
from Scotland were present.
The President then put forward the second head for discus¬
sion. “To what extent do the thoughts of the sitters at
seances influence the messages received ? ”
Mr. G. W. Pearce, speaking with special reference to Mr.
Harrison’s experiences with clairvoyants, which, he said
442
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873.
clearly pointed to the conclusion -that in the majority of the
cases cited, the sphere of the'knowledge possessed by the
circle or questioner, had given form to the vision or percep¬
tion of the sensitive, and he could give more than one illus¬
tration, were not the time at his disposal necessarily limited,
that there were clairvoyants with independent vision. The
one instance he would give occurred in his own house. A
young lady, from Norwich, was staying with his wife. The
young lady was very clairvoyant at times, and one evening
Mr. Pearce asked her if she would try and find her mother,
and see what she was doing ; she consented, and he put
her to sleep. In a few minutes she announced that she
saw her mother at a party, and one of the guests, a minister,
was leading her mother to the pianoforte. She tllcn heard
her mother sing, and saw the minister, after she had finished
playing, lead her back to her seat, and then take her to
supper. When the young lady awoke, and was told what
she, had described, she laughed heartily at what she
termed “her nonsense,” for she was sceptical about her
own powers. However, Mr. Pearce persuaded her to write
and ask her mother how she was engaged on that evening,
and at that particular time. The letter was written the
nest day, and posted ; but 6n the morning of the day
after the letters crossed, a letter was received by Miss
S   from her mother, in which her mother mentioned the
party, and the music, and the supper, and her having been
taken into supper by the minister after she had played and
sung at his request a particular song. Mr. Pearce concluded
by saying that the case just mentioned not only proved inde¬
pendent clairvoyance, but it might also prove that the mes¬
sage conveyed in the letter Miss S  received from her
mother, was not a reproduction of the thoughts of the
daughter, but caused by the intense desire of the daughter to
know whether “ her nonsense were fact.”*
Mr. Luxmoore had met with several instances in which
clairvoyants gave not only diagnoses of diseases, but also the
proper remedies for them; whilst in their normal condition
these clairvoyants knew nothing whatever of medicine. He
had recorded a striking example of this in the Zoist.
Mr. Harrison in reply said, that little had been raised in
this part of the discussion that required answer from him.
The experience of most people who had studied Spiritualism
carefully was, that in nearly all cases communications were
to a greater or less degree influenced by the minds of the
medium or sitters, and frequently by both. Indeed, it would
seem that conditions had rarely been obtained so perfectly
as to obviate this entirely.
The President then read the third head for discussion. “What
is the best method of protecting mediums from undeveloped
influences ? ”
Mr. Luxmoore said, I would say, by surrounding them
with none but kindly and affectionate sitters—by such as
attend seances, not with minds full of ideas of trickery and
deception, but with minds desirous of searching for truth.
It is invariable in all spiritual experience, that when
we go out honestly in search of truth we find
truth, but if we go out in search of falsehood,
with minds predisposed against the acceptance of facts,
we often find falsehood. The influence of any minds
in a circle that suspect the medium is bad and hurtful alike to
the medium and the manifestations. Indeed, the influence of
suspicion is most detrimental,-and enables adverse spirits to
come and produce manifestations that have all the appearance
of trickery on the part of the unfortunate medium. I would
not admit for instance, to circles where the more advanced
physical phenomena are obtained, those who were strangers to
the elementary phenomena of tilts and raps. Nay, I will go
further, and say that there are many Spiritualists—of some
experience too—whom I would not admit to such circles for
fear of breaking down the manifestations and injuring the
medium. All who inquire into the marvellous phenomena of
Spiritualism should begin at the beginning, and form circles
at their own homes, in their families, and with trustworthy
friends, for the elementary manifestations, without a proper
knowledge of which the wonderful higher developments could
neither he understood nor appreciated. He was very careful
not to invite to his house persons who had not full confidence
both in his own honesty and that of the medium. (Applause.)
Mr. Harrison—Undoubtedly there is a reflex action between
the state of mind of the sitters and the manifestations.
In cases where low-class mediums have played tricks, bad
* Or, may not the daughter have been mentally en rapport with her
mother, and described the circumstances which were ^evidently uppermost
in her mother’s mind ?—Ed.
influences from without may have been sometimes brought to
bear upon them ; hence the impulse to do wrong, of which
evil and adverse spirits were only too ready to avail
themselves. It was greatly to be wished that Spiritualists
would study the kindred phenomena of mesmerism. Why
could not the Dalston Association depute some of its members
to inquire into and report upon these subjects ? Such inquiry
would be very valuable, not only to the members, but to
Spiritualists at large.
Mr. Blyton suggested the formation of a committee of
inquiry into such matters.
Mr. Harrison was sure that if such a course were adopted
the members of the association, with their usual energy and
care, would successfully carry it out.
Mr. Luxmoore proposed, and Dr. II. Smith seconded a vote
of thanks to Mr. Harrison for his paper, which vote was
carried unanimously.
Mr. Harrison said that it was a great pleasure to him to put
his experiences upon paper for discussion by those who pos¬
sessed a good knowledge of Spiritualism. It was also some¬
thing to know that there was at least one society in London
where such great questions had interest for so many members
as the Dalston Association possessed. Whatever was done by
the association, even though in a small way, was well and
effectively done, and their proceedings were referred to and
quoted throughout the country. He was glad that his paper
had raised such an interesting discussion, and should be only
too pleased if it resulted in the appointment of a committee to
carry on mesmeric and other experiments.
The proceedings then closed with the customary vote of
thanks to the President.
The St. John’s Association of Spiritualists will hold a
soiree at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell road, on the evening of
New Year’s Day, in aid of the Sunday lecturing fund of the
society. Next Sunday evening Mr. T. Shorter will lecture at
the hall on the “Eeligious Needs of the Age.”
The next meeting of the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will beheld on Tuesday, December
9th. Perhaps after the council is fully formed, and all the
officers appointed, the rules may7 undergo a further and last
revision, after Spiritualists have had ample.leisure to consider
them.
Heditthship of a Baby.—Mr H. D. Jencken, of 53,
Brompton-crescent, writes :—“ Our little boy continues to de-
velopein his medial powers. Only fancy, the nurse counted
four or five spirit hands making passes over his little form the
other evening. Kappings on his pillow, and on the iron rail
of the bedstead occur almost every day.”
Mr. Gerald Massey in America.—Many press notices
of the lecturing career of Mr. Gerald Massey in America, have
reached us from the United States. The first lecture after his
arrival was delivered at Harlem, subject, “ Why does not God
kill the Devil ?” He took f01* his text the Man Friday’s
question to Ilobinsou Crusoe—“ If that God so strong, why
Him not kill that Devil?” The JVew Yorh Sun, the Graphic,
the Nero Yorh Herald, the Tribune, and other papers, have
noticed his lectures. One of them says:—“They are im¬
mensely mistaken who assume that Gerald Massey has come
to America to talk over the trivialities of table-tipping. He
has explained in the Golden Age that by means of a very pe¬
culiar experience, he has struck on a lost track of ancient
knowledge; the first fruits of this are in a few of his lectures,
but the fuller unfolding will take one or two large volumes.
There can be no doubt that Mr. Massey has most personal
affection for the less popular of his subjects, or he would
hardly have run the risk of offering these to audiences in New
York against the advice of the ‘ Bureau,’ and his more
worldly wise friends; jit is because he feels that he has some¬
thing new to say, and he thought this country the right place
to say it. He proclaimed on Sunday night that Spiritualism,
fis he understood it and bad wrought it out, was a new world’s
gift that amply repaid all America had ever received from the
old world, amd concluded his peroration with these words :—
‘ It may be the dream was true ; it may be I saw with vision¬
ary eyes. But as I strained them across the Atlantic long be¬
fore I came, I saw your young world of the west arise and
brighten with new life, quickening at the heart of her : this
new dawn kindling in her face, throbbing and radiating with
auroral splendour of this latest light, as if the millenium
morning of humanity’s most golden future had touched her
forehead firsthand she shone illumined, glorified and glorify¬
ing, as if in the very smile of God. ’ ”
Dec. 5, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
443
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Saturday night, a lecture was dellvered.in the Free¬
masons’ Hall, Nevvgate-street, Newcastle, by Mr. J. J. Morse,
trance medium, on “ The Religion of Spiritualism.” There
was a large and respectable audience, which was presided
over by Mr. Armstrong, president of the Newcastle Society
for Promoting Enquiry into Modern Spiritualism.
After devotional exercises had been gone through, Mr.
Morse, in the trance state, began by saying that it was well
worthy the consideration of all thinking persons whether
Spiritualism were opposed to religion, whether- or not the
phenomena were a reality, whether Spiritualism was really
worthy of being named a science, and whether it was worthy
of the name of religion, or whether it was possessed of any re¬
ligion whatever. For himself, he must contend that inde¬
pendent of older theologies Spiritualism held the germ of a
priceless truth, that it would benefit humanity in all the re¬
lations of life, and that it held a claim of precedence over all
religions which surrounded themselves ■ with dogmas and
creeds. But if it were not true, and further than that, if
Spiritualism were no better than existing religions, it would
be-reasonable to ask what was the use of Spiritualism, and
certainly very difficult on that ground to return a rational
answer. In explaining the religion of Spiritualism they were
sure to run the serious risk of wounding the keen prejudices of
many friends, but nevertheless nothing should deter them
from fully explaining their views on the subject. At the
outset it would be as well to ask the question, what was
meant by the term religion? Now their view or definition
of the word might not be on the side of the vast majority;
but was it not a fact that truth often was in favour
of the minority ? The conception, therefore, of religion
was neither more nor less than a system built upon
moral and philosopical evidence, which knew the nature of
man, and knew how to meet the requirements of his
nature. In other words, religion to be practically ex¬
pressed must be by love and deeds. Now, Spiritualism
brought advanced knowledge, and facts relating to the
spiritual nature of man, and also his high duties in
relation to the present life. They would thus find that the
religion of Spiritualism was ^eminently practical. Religion
and Spiritualism were said to be in direct and positive
antagonism; in some cases they were, though not in all.
Spiritualism endeavoured to unfold to their eyes the grand
fact that part of happiness consisted in having good physical
organisations, which were given them by a great, beneficent,
creative Power, and which were given to them as a gift; and
they should do their best to retain that purity which was
given the grand and glorious structure at its birth. The
religion of Spiritualism pointed out how the gift could be
maintained, and on that foundation it based its claim to
practicability. It stood forward on behalf of a practical
humanity in its physical condition; it did not run counter to
scientific discoveries or scoff at material researches, or
trample under foot or scorn any discoveries that might be
brought forth into the light of day. Nay, it appropriated
such knowledge, welcomed it as a friend, and spiritualised it.
Yet there were those who asserted Spiritualism to be a most
unscientific thing, of no earthly use whatever. Those who
made use of such assertions showed that they scarcely knew
much about the subject. Another department of the question
was that relating to the individual soul, and the spiritual body
belonging to it. Spiritualism points out, like other religions,,
that death comes some time or other to all; that whilst the
ffiody is consigned to the cold earth, the spirit of man
is taken to the realms of immortality. It told them that
death simply began the final career of the individual, and
that all must undergo- the change. It also taught how
they must make the best' use of their powers and bow
with reverential -awe to the Creator of their being, so
that at all times they could stand prepared to face,
not fear, God’s messenger death, and reverentially and
humbly trust the superior power of wisdom that guides all
things wisely and well. Now the question that arose was,
what, then, can Spiritualism teach the individual better than
other religions have done and are doing? Well, if religion
weje extricated from the creeds and dogmas which covered
it, then he would be bound to confess that Spiritualism
could teach people nothing more. But religion was over¬
flooded with such creeds and dogmas, and Spiritualism
not being so, therefore Spiritualism was in a position
to teach more than other religions could. How? Well, it
taught that immortality was not"physically dependent upon
any condition of being ; that people will only be happy in
proportion to the good they do, and miserable in propor¬
tion to the evil effects of evil in themselves. (Hear, hear.)
Spiritualism preached individual responsibility, and that
to possess happiness man must depend upon his own
efforts to gain it. He must live in accordance with the
laws which govern his being; and when he did so,
-assuredly as the sun brought forth light and life, so would
man reap the fruit of his well-doing, and possess a spiritual
elevation and a spirit of fraternal love and charity. Thus,
were Spiritualism to permeate all classes of society, and
the world in general, individuals would be very cautious in
condemning their brethren, lest the same persons in- turn
might condemn them, or their own conscience might con¬
demn them. Spiritualism taught them that they were all
the children of one Father, and when the world could
realise this grand truth, who then should say, “ I am of the
chosen people, and those are not of the chosen;” or who
shall say, “ I am specially favoured by the Most High, and
those are not ?” No, Spiritualism did away with such a
theory, for all were the children of one Father; and each
should uphold, sympathise, and use kindness, and love one
another, and also have the love and kindness of God. Thus,
if humanity were to embrace these principles, people would
lose that harsh, bitter feeling which caused class to be set
against class. Humanity would stand united in love and
truth. Spiritualism quarrelled with no religion in the full
sense of the word, but it did quarrel with dogmas and creeds,
which cover religion. Spiritualism taught that every effect
must have a cause. Some might say, |‘ But, then, every man
believes that.” Yes, but some men believe it in things of a
more marvellous nature than others. Spiritualism taught and
preached the existence of the individual soul; that it was
destined for an immortality. It showed that the creative
Power was infinite, and the consciousness of man finite.
Thus, it is stated, they fought not with the principle of
religion, but rather desired to bring forward such a light that
all should feel its force and brilliancy. They would not
deal with the question of a Deity. They could not, in
fact, for it would need the intelligence of a god to
weigh and mark out the powers of the Deity ; it would
need powers greater and grander, and powers higher
than the most powerful soul ever possessed. They could
not solve the problem of the Deity; they could not
measure it, nor dive down into the hidden mystery therein
contained. All true thinkers found that the problem of God
was an insolvable one. They only knew that God was their
Father, and that He was the cause of their existence. In¬
numerable had been the works published, great had been the
labours bestowed, to shovy the existence and power of the
Deity. Now, if those persons had spent their valuable time
upon problems which could be solved, it would have been a
great deal better for humanity. Had they striven to solve
the problem of the causes of intemperance, poverty, depravity,
and crime, better would it have been for the world at large ;
because whilst striving to sol ve the great problem, all those
evils which afflicted humanity were gathering their forces and
eating the very life of humanity, making a canker at its very
core. They might show by enlightenment how virtue was
superior to vice, and the best of all blessings for humanity.
Better would it be for such persons to do such work than at¬
tempt to solve the attributes of God, who works in and through
them. (Applause.) Spiritualism was consent to rest upon
the fact of the existence of God, and held that infinite love,
justice, and wisdom were the attributes of the Deity. The
religion of Spiritualism taught that God was Master as well
as Father, Lord, and King. In regard to the realms of the
spiritual world, Spiritualism taught individual responsi¬
bility—that each one was to obtain his happiness in the
present world, and also in the world to come.
In the spirit world there were neither Roman
Catholics, Protestants, Dissenters, nor the creeds from the
western, eastern, northern, or southern parts of the earth—in
the spirit world no distinction of creed was known. Before
proceeding much farther, he might here remark that if Spirit¬
ualism taught these things, what was there to cause the
frivolous to laugh at it, or that it should be branded with
stigma ? The religion of Spiritualism also dealt with other
important questions ; it taught how the individual could love
his fellows in his relation to the present life. It gave a con¬
ception of what his duty was. One duty was to be charitable
and kind to all—never to condemn anyone until they had
thoroughly investigated the cause and effect of any error that
might be imputed to a person, no matter how dark and terrible
the crime might be. Some might say, “ Oh, but that would
444
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873.
upset the order of things and society.” Why, they as Spirit¬
ualists would only be too heartily glad if such a change could
be brought ■ about and come to pass. (Hear, hear.) He
fancied he heard others say, “ Your words are very good, but
after all what is it ? Why, it is only morality you have been
speaking about. It is only appealing to the intellect—to
choose the right and leave the wrong. It is only morals.
You only teach men to be better, because good is good. You
■ only teach people to be good because it is wise to be good and
will ennoble and elevate them.” Others, again, might say,
“ As such, it is a lamentable failure, because, as the other has
said, you have simply taught men to be good because it is
best to be good; but you do not take into account the
necessity of a religious teaching. Where is your religious
element? Take the religion of morals, and it is nothing;
but introduce religion into morals, and it makes the
thing entirely different.” In answer to such persons,
be might ask—what religion is doing right before the
sight of God? Which is the right and which is the false?
Was it not the essence of religion to make bad men good, and,
if it were possible, good men better still? Did not morality
do the same? Where then was the difference? Instead
of there being a wide difference, it was in heart one and the
same thing. Some of his religious friends, however, would
say, “ Well, now, I will do a good deed to-day, and after I
have done so I shall be rewarded in the future.’’ Sorry indeed
was he for such a person’s morality. People must do good
with no idea or expectation of receiving reward in the future
world. They must do good without fee or reward, and with a
single hand battle for truth and goodness. Possessing such
an influence within their minds, they would stand erect arnidst
the shock and ruin of the world. (Applause.) Nay, when the
angel Death claimed them as his own, they would be ready
to meet the angel calmly,"because knowing from the depths of
their own souls that they had ever striven to be true to the
principles they held dear—that they had striven to be good for
goodness’s sake; that they had practised charity and holiness
for their own sakes—they would pass over the silent river,
ascend the immortal plain, receive the starry crown, hear
angelic voices, and whilst being led on with greeting and
acclaim, they could clearly say “I have striven to do my
duty.” (Loud applause.) Religion asked no more of them,
for it only asked them to love God and man, tell the
truth, be honest, and practise charity. In doing so re¬
ligion assured them that God would welcome them to a
better world hereafter. Was there such a great differ¬
ence between the essence of religion and the teaching
of Spiritualism ? No ; they were one and the same.
(Applause.) Many said of persons who believed in the
advancement of truth, and allowed themselves to be open to
conviction, “ Oh, they change their views ; I won’t believe in
them.” Such was the exclamation of the old fossil believers.
(Laughter.) Why, if such persons believed in the advance¬
ment of science and other subjects, why, then, should they not
believe in the advancement of things pertaining to religion ?
If progress was seen in every department, why should it not
be in man’s spiritual nature. The lecturer, in the course of
his peroration, urged upon those present to prize the truth and
practise the virtues enunciated, so that when they were called
to the spiritual world angels would crowd round them, the
voice of the Father would be addressed to them, saying,
“ Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast ended
thy mortal career, immortal happiness dawns now for ever on
thee.” (Loud applause.)
At one stage of the proceedings a respectably dressed man
left the centre of the hall, and walked upon the platform in an
apparently unconscious condition, and remained in a standing
attitude for some time, as if he were utterly oblivious to all
that was transpiring.
A gentleman said the man on the platform was a friend of
his, and of late he had taken great interest in seances.
Latterly he had become quite under the influence of mes¬
merism, or Spiritualism, and it had made him very weak and
unwell. Would Mr. Morse give his opinion as to what was
best to be done in the matter.
Mr. Morse replied that if the man’s nervous state could not
stand the strain, it would be better for him to cease attending
seances for the present, until his body was in a stronger
condition.
The lecturer then sat down, and began to rub his eyes like
one waking from a sleep, and he then came out of the trance
state-
Votes of thanks were then accorded to the lecturer and the
chairman.
At this stage of the proceedings the man alluded to suddenly
awoke from his apparent trance, or mesmeric condition, and
left the platform in evident confusion.
The proceedings were then brought to a close.
PATENTING A PLANCHETTE.
The Banner of Light has published much correspondence
of late between the United States Patent Office and General
Lippitt, about the patenting of a piece of apparatus connected
with Spiritualism. Last Monday the Daily News summarised
the whole case as follows :—
“ The Government of the United States are at the present
moment assailed by a ditliculty which, whilst it has attracted
less universal attention than that connected with the Virginins,
may to some people appear to be of not less importance. It
appears from a letter written to the New York Tribune by
Mr. Robert Dale Owen, that General Lippitt, * now of Cam¬
bridge, but formerly a favourably-known and successful lawyer
in San Francisco,’ has invented an article called a psychic
stand and detector. The name affords but slight assistance in
guessing what General Lippitt’s invention may be, but Mr.
Owen kindly helps us by adding that the ‘ function’ of the
article is that of ‘spelling out words and sentences, usually
called spiritual communications, through an alphabet not only
invisible to the operator, but the very location of ■vVhich he
cannot know.’ General Lippitt applied in the usual course for
a patent, which was refused upon the grounds that the Ameri¬
can Patent ‘ Office cannot concede the truth of Spiritualism,
as, though individual scientists may, as applicant says, have
given the phenomena some attention, scientific men as a body,
or in any great numbers, have never conceded their reality.’
The injury of refusing a patent for the psychic stand might
have been borne by the General, but the patent examiner
wantonly proceeded to add insult by observing that ‘ the
office is disposed to believe that as a game table or means of
amusement the device might be more favourably received;’
but in such case a new specification is required, in which ‘ all
allusions to the use of the device by mediums should be
avoided.’ As might have been expected, the gallant General
and quondam lawyer refused with scorn to have the psychic
stand and detector officially advertised as a toy, and he carried
his case to the Appeal Court, where it now rests. A psychic
stand and detector would probably have an equally large sale
under any other name. But General Lippitt feels that there
is a principle at stake, and, taking for his motto, Aut Psychic
Stand ant nullns, he is prepared, if necessary, to shed the
last drop of his blood in the struggle with a sceptical Patent
Office.”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
The second session of this society was opened on Wednesday,
22nd October. The president, Dr. G. B. Clark, delivered an
inaugural address, reviewing the operations of the society
since it started. * He also spoke of the present position of
psychology, and its various phenomena.
On Wednesday, 5th November, Mr. Keith read a paper on
certain remarkable phenomena' he had observed in London,
Kingston-on-Thames, and Glasgow ; he also described a
seance that took place at his residence in Portobello with
Mr. Duguid, the Glasgow medium, when very extraordinary
manifestations occurred, such as voices joining in the singing,
a piano playing of its own accord, and accompanying th®
singing.
The President, who was present at the seance in Portobello,
stated that they were very much indebted to Mr. Duguid
for coming so often to oblige them, and thought that some testi¬
monial should be given to him in acknowledgment of his
courtesy.
Mr. Brown, 10, St. Andrew’s-square, was elected an ordi¬
nary member.
On Wednesday, 19th November, Mr. J. M. Morrison, M.A.,
read a paper on the conditions, especially the physical con¬
ditions, necessary to elicit the phenomena. He is constructing
a working model of a proper seance room.
The treasurer reported that a number of strange lights had
been seen at a seance on his business premises.
Mr. William Buchanan, M D., 3, Carleton-terrace, was
elected as an ordinary member.
The Rev. F. R. Young has been lecturing actively of late
on Spiritualism, at Bath, and in the West of England.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
445
Eec. 5, 18?3.
S ONNET.
A. poet once, who pondered on the night,
And all the starry glories brought to view
By absence of the sun, who doth renew
Earth’s beauties more, the stronger be his I'ght,
Did question that—as he deceives our sight,
and hides far sweeter, aye, and far more true
And soul-inspiring things than he doth show—
So life deceives, and hides a fairer light?
Oh! not as he, in dimness of belief,
But with a firm assurance do we stand,.
Holding the proofs of life and joy to come.
Brought by the happy dwellers in that land;
Their love the same, but only purged of grief,
Linking the earthly to the heavenly home.
Adamant A..
(ftamspontieitce.
[Gnat frtedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE MEETING- AT FINSBURY.
Sib,—Your report of my remarks with reference to a
seance at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, is correct in all
but one statement; but that is of such importance to my own
mind, that I beg leave to set you right. You say that I said
I had “ expressed a wish that as it was to be in the dark, any¬
thing that spirits might be supposed to bring into the room
might be too large to have been concealed in the room pre¬
viously.” Such was not my point. Some days before the
seance I expressed the hope that whatever might be imported
through the locked door in the dark might be too large to
have been concealed about the clothing of anyone present..- It
was on this account that I asked for the bandbox. 1 need
not recall the fact that each thing thrown on the table was
such as might have been concealed in the pockets of persons
present, and, the darkness being absolute, thrown upon the
table without observation. Moncure D. Conway.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—Many of your readers will be glad to know that Mr.
T. Everitt gave a lecture last Sunday about those deeply in¬
teresting direct writings given at his circle, to the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, in the Goswell Hall, Goswell-
road. A large and a very attentive audience was present,
although no publicity had been given in advance to the cir¬
cumstance that the lecture would be delivered. He has
promised to give the Association another reading shortly,
containing extracts from some remarkable spirit messages
upon the “ Truthfulness of the Christian Religion,” which
were given to special circles of sitters selected by the spirits
themselves. Mr. Everitt began by reading Daniel, chap v*
5th verse, “ And there came forth the fingers of a man’s hand
and wrote upon the plaster of the wall.” In his introductory
remarks, he said this proved man’s continued existence after
he had left his material body, and that he was able in ancient
times to return and give a written message to his brethren
who were still in this outer world. He went on to show that
if spirits could give direct written communications in those
days, so also they could in these days. He then read some of
the messages received by direct writing given at his circle,
and he made comments as he went on. The first paper told of
the nearness of the spirit world, and that man knows little of
it. Next he read a paper showing that it was the privilege
of our forefathers to hold converse with the inhabitants of the
other world ; this paper also gave a Condensed history of
ancient spirit communion, as recorded in the Scriptures. Then
followed a paper upon “ The Valley of the Shadow of Death,”
which showed that the death of the body was not the death
generally spoken of in the Word (or Logos); but that the
living in sin was usually meant by the term “ death ” in the
Scriptures. He further read a paper showing that this is only
a world of effects, and that the spirit world is the world of
causes; that all our inventions and discoveries are first known
to the inhabitants of the cause world, and that when the
inhabitants of this world are prepared to receive them, they
are infused into the minds of persons who are endeavouring
to make inventions and discoveries.
After quoting several more papers upon various subjects, but
all of a religious character, he read three papers upon the
attributes of Deity as his own spirit friends had been taught
upon this great subject in their world. The papers were pro¬
foundly interesting, and were listened to with great attention.
Other matters were brought by him before the audience, who
listened with marked attention throughout. I hope that Mr.
Everitt will 000^006^0 give readings from these most inte¬
resting papers ; coming as they do by direct writing from the
spirit world, they throw great light upon Spiritualism, and
are calculated to make a deep impression upon the minds of
those who hear them. C. West.
138, Holloway-road, N.
madame Louise’s mediumshif.
Sir,—In thanking you for inserting my last, I may state
that my intention to turn the remarkable powers of our
medium to account in the cause of> truth, has lately been
strengthened by another seance, under test conditions, applied
to the principal feature of Madame Louise’s mediumship—
the materialisation of spirit forms. I have had a great many
sittings, some of them under severe crucial tests, and on some
occasions, of course, failures. In reviewing these results, I am
bound to confess, that the failures occurred when there was
plenty of room for cheating ; and, on the other hand, the best
results were connected with severe test conditions. Many
different faces appeared, but none of them having the slightest
resemblance to the face of the medium. Our principal spirit
friend, Bertie, appeared, and looked very beautiful. We tied
the medium round the waist (with thin tape) and to the back
of the chair with double knots, the ends let out from under
the curtain. I placed a sheet of paper on these plainly
visible ends, so that any pulling would displace it, and show
the movement. The chair was placed with the hack to the
aperture. After the face vanished, we looked at the ends and
paper on the floor, and found them exactly as before; but
when the medium got out of the trance, there came a dis¬
turbance, and we felt rather alarmed about her, crying out,
“ What is the matter ? ” but joined her in a hearty laugh,
when, lifting the curtain, we found that the medium had, on
first awaking, forgotten the tying, and was embarrassed by
vainly attempting to get off from the entanglement.
Manchester, November 29th, 1873. 0. Reimers.
ORTHODOX SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—Having read extracts from communications through
“X.,” in your impression of the 28th ult., with much pleasure,
and referring to what he observes upon the subject of the trust¬
worthiness or otherwise of such communications, I send you
an extract from a spirit communication, through me asserting,
as ”X.’s” message asserts, “that the glorious work of the
Lord’s redemption is commemorated in spirit-landalso one
in agreement with the following from “X.’s” communica¬
tion—“ Love divine invites all to be saved. Men doom them¬
selves by rejecting the bliss prepared for them. He does not
doom them.”
It will not, I suppose, be disputed that where two media,
disconnected from one another, and of course without concert,
allege the same things, a strong presumption, if not a proof,
is furnished that what is so asserted is the truth, and if such
confirmations were collected, they would be a powerful means
of forming a body of important truths for the benefit of the
world. G. B. Prichard.
Porto-Bello Lodge, Knight's-hill-road, Lower Norwood,
Nov. 30th, 1873.
23?v2 January, 1870.—“ You have to believe what we, your
spirit friends, have told you. You have yet to exercise your
reason to the full. You have to be convinced, as a man, who
is a man, by that inestimable faculty with which he has been
endowed by the infinite mercy of the Lord, for the sublimest
purpose, that he might spiritually become his. Son, and live
for ever. You have, then, to know that man is judged here¬
after by himself, because, as man, he is endowed with reason,
though it is said he is judged by the Lord, under the title of
the Son of Man, because it would be mere hallucination to
believe that a rational creature is to be subject to a judgment
—an arbitrary judgment—from a Superior Being, in which no
reason nor justice can be seen by a rational though a finite
being. There is the judge and there is the judged, residing
in the same breast. The state hereafter is the state chosen by
the judge and the judged, who may enter heaven, or hell, but
elects that which suits the state—the spiritual state—which
he has formed for himself in the world in which he was
placed, to follow the footsteps of his divine Master and
Teacher, and to increase in favour with God and man.”
Christmas-day, 1872.—“ Let me discourse with you in the
accents of love on this day, the anniversary of our Lord’s
descent upon the earth. The heavenly host at this present
446
THE SPIRITUALIST.
are in jubilee, and have presented to their views in vivid and
living colours the blessings that have flowed and continue to
flow from this overpowering influence of our Saviour’s love.
The hallelujahs that proceed , from the numerous choirs of
angels in the vast kingdoms of the Lord above, swell their
melodies in harmonies, permeating the heavenly atmospheres
with ecstacies of love and joy, which no pen could describe
nor tongue cbuld utter, but can only be felt and perceived by
the inhabitants of heaven, whose souls have been attuned to
the unearthly sounds. Let, then, these choirs of gratitude
and praise be felt, even by you, though still upon the earth, by
attuning your soul to the appeals of love, peace, and good
will to man, whom our Lord and Saviour succumbed to save,
and in succumbing conquered all the powers of sin and death,
that else would have swallowed up ail living on the earth in
the bosom of destruction. Live on then, and feel and under¬
stand, at each step more and more, the heavenly music that
now rings with gratitude from the hosts of heaven. The
light of the world is darkness in the sight of heaven, but
that darkness will be relieved of its blackness, as the shades
of falseness and appearances shall be tempered by the rays of
divine truth now descending into the minds of men. Live
on then, and remove the impediments to those heaven-born
rays, &c., &c.” G. B. P.
Sib,—A letter in your last, signed “ X.,” said, in effect, that
Spiritualists who were most apt to bring the charge that
messages, received through other mediumship than their own,
were coloured by the thoughts of the medium, were also slow
to apply the same rule to their own case. There is justice in
this view, since a true law must be universal. Some mediums
can get the true names and addresses of persons they never
knew in life, given through their mediumship, whilst the great
majority cannot do so. This is the general rule for testing relia¬
bility which I would apply impartially to all mediums ; this
rule, I submit, gives much weight to the utterances of Mr.
Morse, and of the medium through whom the “ Spirit Teach¬
ings,” occasionally published in your pages, are given. The
said messages are thoroughly unorthodox.
It has been truly said that the road to orthodoxy is paved
with children’s brains, and it is tolerably certain that were
not the intellects of children crushed in infancy, when too
young to think, or to question the voice of authority, they
would never accept incomprehensible theological creeds if
presented to them for the first time after they had attained
maturity. The late Dr. Hunt, founder of the Anthropological
Institute, studied the mental disease or “ religious mania,”
as he called it, produced by the present system of crushing the
intellects of the young, and he said that it caused a premature
closing of the sutures of the skull. All Spiritualists would do
good to society by strenuously setting their faces against
Sunday-schools. The Jesuits and priests of all theologies are
generally aware that if they can get the control of children
from the age of six till the age of fourteen, the unfortunates
never afterwards in this life get free from their dogmas.
y.
The Rev. Hiles Hitchens preached against Spiritualism,
which he denounced as sorcery, last Sunday morning at
Eccleston-square Independent Chapel, Pimlico. It is a
serious responsibility for a person whose business it is to teach
truth about spiritual things, to teach the reverse of truth
from want of knowledge, and to work in opposition to those
beings who are endeavouring to bring spiritual light to man.
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—On Sun¬
day last, Mr. T. Everitt read a paper on “ Direct Spirit
Writings,” at Goswell Hall. 86, Goswell-road, in connection
with this Association. Mr. West presided, and, in introducing
Mr. Everitt, referred to the vast importance of obtaining a
sure knowledge that there is a life after this, and of the posi¬
tion and circumstances in which we shall find ourselves in
that life. In all ages, he said, it had been the lot of some
few individuals to have intercourse with the spirit world, but
that intercourse subjected them to torture and ill-treatment.
Now we can investigate Spiritual manifestations without let or
hindrance, and he waS pleased to see so large an audience
interested in the subject. He had been intimately associated
with Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and through the mediumship of
the latter had realised the truth of Spiritualism in such a
manner as to get a new and definite view of the future life,
instead of a hazy speculation. Mr. Everitt then delivered an
address, a notice of which will be found in our correspondence
columns.
Dec. 5, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN PIMLICO.
Last Tuesday evening, a lecture on Spiritualism was de¬
livered at the Pimlico Rooms, Warwick-street, Eccleston-
square, S.W., by Mr. H. Yenman. Mr. R. F. Battye, M.D.,
presided. There was a somewhat thin but superior and well-
educated audience.
The Chairman said that he was there neither as an advocate
nor an opponent of Spiritualism ; he was- merely a listener,
who presided at the desire of his friend, Mr. Yenman. There
was much confusion in the popular mind about Spiritualism,
and the lecture was intended to explain what the points of the
case really were.
Mr. H. Yenman said that he desired to deal impartially with
Spiritualism, he having given much attention to it for a long
time ; he intended to deal with it as an open question, and to
view it from a neutral standpoint. He regretted that it was a
subject condemned by many without inquiry, and he believed
the Dialectical Society to have been the only one which made
a fair experimental inquiry into the alleged facts. He then
mentioned various objections to Spiritualism, one of which
was, “ I don’t know anything a,bout it, therefore it must be
electricity ! ” (Laughter.) If the public chose to deny that
spirits could communicate with men, that line of argument
virtually gave up the Bible; but if the public admitted the same,
the facts would make atheism and materialism fall to the ground.
He then briefly reviewed the history of modern Spiritualism
from its first outbreak in the Fox family, at Hydesviile, United
States, and he said that it was first brought to England, by
Mr. D. D. Home in 1855.* He then went on to spfeak of spirit
photographs, and assumed that under certain conditions spirit
forms could reflect the ultra-violet rays of the spectrum, which
could act upon sensitive collodionised films, although invisible
to the human eye. He next instructed his listeners how to
form circles at home. In the course of his lecture he quoted
portions of Canon Calloway’s paper to the Anthropological
Institute very copiously.
The Chairman said that the lecture was a very fair and
honest representation of what the Spiritualists believed. No
doubt to many present it seemed as probable that the state¬
ments were true as that a pig could fly, but he thought that
there was fair ground for argument on both sides of the
question.
The Rev. Hiles Hitchens asked what was the use of
Spiritualism ?
Mr. Venman said, that as he had not admitted the truth of
Spiritualism, he could scarcely go into the subject of its use.
If it were true, he held that nearly everything in the universe
had its use. Among professed Spiritualists were men of high
scientific attainments and intellectual culture, far higher than
himself, and they had framed from the facts of Spiritualism a
consistent religion and philosophy.
Dr. Moore said that he wished they could have a seance
there that evening.
The Chairman said,-that after the second and concluding
lecture next Tuesday there would be a discussion, which, be
hoped would be conducted with good temper on all sides, the
subject being an exciting one.
The proceedings then closed with the usual votes of thanks.
Much good might be done by leading Spiritualists, and the
gentlemen who wish to form a society in Pimlico, attending the.
next meeting, and endeavouring to form a local association to
inquire experimentally into the subject of Spiritualism.
Assyrian and Egyptian Spiritualism.—The Society of
Biblical Archaeology, 9, Conduit-street, W., is about to publish
many translations of Assyrian texts, including The Descent of
Ishtar into Hades, History of the E oil Spirits, Incantations for
Removing Curses, Various Mythological Stories and Invoca¬
tions, and Omens from Terrestrial Objects and Events. Among
the Egyptian translations the society intends to publish are The
Booh of the Dead, Spells in Lepsius (il Aelteste Texte ”), Harris
Magical Papyrus, The Magical Text in the British Museum
(Salt 825. Birch), Spells in the Tomb of Beh-en-ren-ef “ Sha
en sensenu f' the Booh of the'Breaths of Life, The Lamenta¬
tions of Isis (Horrach), and The Litanies of the Sun (Denh. III.
203).
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R. S.i Leamiagton.—Mr. Fitton, of 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham,
Manchester, is able to get you the information you require.
* Is this accurate? Did not Mrs. Hayden come first? Where was t'-e
first seance held in England, and who were present, excluding the seances
once held with'Kelley by Dr. Dee?—Ed.
Dec. 5, 1873.
THE SPIRlTtJALIST.
447
Spikit Forms in America.—Amongst the various
physical phenomena that fill the Spiritualist papers, we
might mention the manifestations occurring near this city, in
the house of Mrs. Judkins. A little girl of fourteen is the
medium, and seems full to repletion of the mediumistic aura,
or whatever else it may be termed ; and, sitting in the cabinet
but a moment, brings forth a youthful company of girls and
boys’ who have gone before, of well-known parents hereabouts,
and a conversation ensues in no ways different from our com¬
mon intercourse, playing frequently on instruments, and doing
all those things that are so well known in Spiritualist circles.
With all my knowledge and thought of Spiritualism through
a series of years, and feeling almost a disgust at physical
phenomena, and taking for granted that these appearing forms
were shadowy, faded, solemn, rather an uninviting evidence
of the future life, I was greatly impressed one afternoon, near
its close, in a room slightly darkened, but with a cheerful
wood-fire throwing its light into the room, to see, in suc¬
cession, standing near the aperture in the cabinet, three
veritable faces, tangible, corporeal, with head and neck fully
and roundly developed, each one animated in manner, cheer¬
ful, delighted, talking, singing, answering and asking ques¬
tions—^visitors, indeed, from the other realm that any one not
obdurate to all sense and reason might gladly commune with.
The children were eminently beautiful—say, from childhood
to twenty years of age ; and, to the sceptical, so far as my
testimony goes, I saw their different features, that no collu¬
sion was possible, kissed them, and I know that mediumistic
or other jugglery was impossible. I was told that, with other
parties, at other times, the little medium’s mouth had been
sealed with a sticking-plaster, so adhesive that, at the close of
the seance, it took some time to remove it without pain. The
family were present, and three other persons besides myself.
This group of children, I understand, intend at some future
time to show themselves in open day.—G. B. Springfield, 111.
—Banner of Light.
The new patent self-acting dry closets,
for Earth, Ashes, or Charcoal. No noise, no dust, no smell, no
inconvenience; economy and comfort combined. Send for price list.
PEAT ENGINEERING AND SEWAGE FILTRATION COMPANY
(Limited), 150, Leadenhall-street, London. '
A. GLENDINNING, Secretary.
New and Cheaper Edition, thorousdily'revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo,
pp. 780, price 7 s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenbojrg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doc¬
trines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. Jekns—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Sk&ra. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London : Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL B00K-
& SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of T/ie Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.’,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E,, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
0 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers* names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. Gd. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. e Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 63, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. H. R. Hinde, Bright-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
H/TRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
.AVjL the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. Gd.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. Gd.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing try the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Russell-square, W.C.
■m/TRS. WGODFORDE,TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected teeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character. ’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above anhour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at S o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the .most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC' PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
11, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Newspaper.
443
THE SEIEITUALIST.
Dec. 5, 1873,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 2Gth
January, 18.69, as follows:—
“ H. Gl. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C,E.; H. It. Fox Bourne, Esq. gj Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Gh Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac Li. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary Object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, Will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
medhunship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED;
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head differ.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every deseripiion.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established, 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
Now ready, 14th Thousand, 54 Illustrations, post free 14 stamps.
THE PEOPLE’S GUIDE TO HEALTH; or, VOLUN¬
TEERS’ MANUAL, by HENRY SMITH, M.D. (Jena.) Gives in¬
structions for Developing and Strengthening the human body, How to
regain Lost Health and Secure Long Life and avoid the Infirmities of
Old Age.
REVIEWS OF THE WORK.
“ There is a daily growing necessity for such Works as the present
if we are to be saved as a nation from retrograding."—Stirling Observer,
July 10th. “Any one in search of health and vigour will find it useful.”
—Morning Chronicle. “ If Dr. Smith had written nothing else than the
‘ People’s Guide to Health’ he would have earned for himself the grati¬
tude of posterity.’—Dumfermline Saturday Press, June 7, 1873.
Ward, Lock, and Tyler, Paternoster-row.
May be had direct from the Author on receipt of 14 stamps.
Address Dr. Henry Smith, 8, Burton-crescent, London, W.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON. ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient."—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE NO. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHARLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, FuUwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
