A RECORD OF THE PR0QF('Ej3£ OF THE ^CIEJ'JCE AND ETHIC3 Of gPIP\ITUAEI^M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 45.—(Vol. III.—No. 6.)‘
T rk'W'nrkAT . TT'TT'u i 1070 Published on the 1st and 15th of every
LOJNDOJN : hihB. 1, 1873. Month; Price Fourpence.
(JTontentg.
Spirit Faces     82
The Healing Power of Mesmerism ...    ...    83
Mrs. Jennie Holmes’s Mediumship   ...   84
Private Seances.—Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s; seance at Mrs.
Scott’s; seance at Mr. Henry Cook’s   85
The Anthropological Institute   89
A Prophetic Vision       ... ... ... 89
Correspondence.—The Influence of Fear upon the Hair; The Foreign
Literature of Spiritualism; Spiritual Nomenclature; The Jealousies
of Mediums; Spiritualism and Metaphysics; Men and Women; Mr.
Guppy’s Experiments; Organisation among Spiritualists   90
Mr. Peebles in Australia     94
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism  95
Dr. Gully’s Advocacy of Spiritualism   '  95
Evidence that Spiritualism deserves Investigation   95
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES. VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
MRS. OLIYE, Trance Medium for Test Communica¬
tions from Spirit Relatives and Friends; also for the Cure of
various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescriptions.—49, Belmont-
street, Chalk Farm-road, London, N.W.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham^
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
P H 0 T O Gr R A P H S:
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
' Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks ok £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus FredbriCK Baykord, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, LondohJ E.O.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57j, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and' three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM. DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.-H&OWH STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Official.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being furtber descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With, an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I,, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
Spntolisf
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulai'Hy in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. IV. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulan-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spirittialist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals: — ^
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. T.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.'I
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne,—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SPIRIT FACES.
The systematic appearance of spirit-faces to ten or
twenty people at the same time, at seances, although a
comparatively new manifestation, has now developed to
such large proportions that it may he as well to review
the whole range of facts, as far as they have been
recorded. In all the past history of Spiritualism, there
are occasional instances of the appearance of a spirit to
one or more persons; for instance, Lord Lindsay and
Mr. Home once saw the spirit of Mr. Home’s first wife,
Sacha ; and Mr. S. C. Hall and several other witnesses
saw the materialised spirit-form of Mr. Hall’s sister at a
seance. The regular occurrence, however, of such striking
andinteresting manifestations, is a thing of comparatively
recent date.
One Sunday morning, about a year ago, Mr. Benjamin
Coleman, of Upper Norwood, called our attention to
several New York and Boston newspapers, containing
column after column of descriptions of the seances
through the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, at Moravia,
U.S.; the New York Sun, a daily paper, had sent a
correspondent to the scene of the occurrences, and he
fully authenticated the facts. Mrs. Andrews, it ap¬
peared, sat for manifestations in a cabinet, as the
Davenport brothers did, but instead of spirit hands and
arms making their appearance, spirit-faces were formed
in the dark, and afterwards showed themselves at the
opening in the cabinet, so as to be recognised by friends
or relations present. The faces were living, and could
in some instances talk. At once full details of the new
manifestations were published in The Spiritualist.
Mr. Guppy read the account thus published in these
pages, and resolved to try at home whether he could
not get spirit-faces through the powerful mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy. He accordingly turned a photographic
dark room into a cabinet, by cutting square open¬
ings in its wooden sides, out of which the spirits might
thrust their heads if they could make them. Spirit
faces were seen, obtained in a very feeble light at first;
and a long account of the first manifestations nt Mr.
Guppy’s, written by Mr. Harrison, was published in
the Daily Telegraph. Shortly afterwards, Messrs.
Herne and Williams began to obtain spirit faces at
their dark seances, the spirits themselves making an
artificial phosphorescent light to reveal their features to
the observers. Next, Miss Florence Cook, of Hackney,
and her spirits resolved to give their time and attention
almost exclusively to the production of spirit-faces.
Lastly, Mr. Holmes, an American medium, who recently
arrived in England, began, a few months ago, to obtain
spirit face manifestations.
Before the manifestations became common, it was
thought that the appearance of spirits to several persons
at once, would be one of the strongest proofs of spirit
identity that could possibly be had, but the facts have
not borne out the anticipation. The faces are manu¬
factured by the spirits, and are not usually like them¬
selves as they are at present, but are made to resemble
the faces they had on earth, in order that friends pre¬
sent may recognise them. The spirits who make these
wonderful living faces often speak of them in a most
irreverent manner, just as a hairdresser might speak of
the wax dummies in his shop window. “ That last
spirit had scarcely any nose,” remarked an observer,
one evening. “ Yes,” replied the spirit Katie, “ I
know that. I only had a little dab of stuff left, and
stuck it on for a nose.”
In the earlier development of the manifestations, the
first spirits who showed themselves were not deceased
relatives of the sitters, but the chief spirits almost
always in attendance upon the mediums for the pro¬
duction of the physical phenomena,—the spirits calling
themselves John and Katie. Most of the first spirit-faces
strongly resembled the faces of the mediums in shape,
though not usually in colour. Many can testify how much
Miss Cook’s “ Katie ” usually resembles herself, though
there are often unaccountable differences. Mr. Bums
and Mr. Harrison have testified that Mr. Williams’s
“Katie” had features much like himself, though soft¬
ened, more effeminate, and of fairer complexion. Mr.
Guppy has published that in the lines of the eyes and
nose, the faces he has seen through Mrs. Guppy’s
mediumship strongly resemble herself; he also says
that the faces seen by him through Mr. Herne’s
mediumship were much like Mr. Herne. Mr. Holmes,
who has been the most successful mediqm as yet in
getting recognisable faces, said that at first they bore a
certain amount of resemblance to himself, but not
enough to excite comment.
In the early days of Spiritualism the question of the
possibility of the duplication of the whole or portions
of the human form had been mooted. An article pub¬
lished by Mr. Coleman in the Spiritual Magazine of
March, 1865, tells how, at the house of Sir Hesketh
Fleetwood, where the Davenports gave a seance, a
match was suddenly struck by a spirit, and the
“ double” of Ira Davenport, who himself was firmly
bound in his chair, was seen gliding before the ob¬
servers. Mr. Coleman states also that Miss Laura
Edmonds, a medium, the daughter of Judge Edmonds,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
Feb. 1, 1873.
of New York, had the power occasionally of leaving
her body, and appearing to friends at a distance. She
frequently appeared in this way, and delivered mes¬
sages to Miss Mapes, daughter of Professor Mapes, the
American agricultural chemist. Once Mr. Coleman
was on the platform with Mr. Fergusson, at one of
the Davenports’ public -exhibitions. The brothers had
been elaborately tied and sealed as usual by a com¬
mittee elected by the observers. Their hands, more¬
over, were filled with flour, as usual, to show that they
did not unclasp them during the dark seance. Four
hands came out of the cabinet, and after the seance Mr.
Fergusson said to Mr. Coleman,—“ Did you see those
hands?” “Yes,” was the reply, “and one of them
was covered with flour.” Mr. Fergusson remarked,—
“ It’s a good job the audience didn’t notice it, or we
should have had a row.” There was a particularly
noisy audience that night. The Banner of Light
recently stated how some ink was squirted by observers
on some spirit-hands, and the ink was afterwards found
on the hands of the boy medium in the cabinet, so that
he was denounced as an impostor there and then. A
gentleman, who had seen spirit-hands thrust out of one
end of a shawl, when the boy simply put his hands
under the other end to get darkness, was not satisfied.
He tried experiments, and discovered that colouring
matters placed upon spirit-hands, were afterwards
found upon different parts of the body of the medium.
The spirits told him that the colouring substances went
into every part of the body of the medium. A little
tar was once rubbed round the end of one of the paper
speaking-tubes used at the seances of Mrs. Andrews,
at Moravia, and a ring of tar was afterwards found
round her mouth, yet the spirits who appeared at her
seances had been recognised by their friends at the rate
of more than a dozen a week, so that there was no
reason to suppose imposture on the part of the medium.
Decently, at one of Miss Cook’s seances, some violet ink
was rubbed on the back of a spirit-hand for the pur¬
pose of experiment, and the smear—larger than half-
a-crown—was afterwards found on the arm of the
medium near the elbow. Mrs. Holmes tells us that
once she was at a dark seance in America. A gentle¬
man called suddenly for a light, saying he had caught
a hand. A great, long additional arm and hand was
then seen protuding from the body of the medium, and
it shot back into one of the normal arms of the medium
as swiftly as the eye could follow it. At dark seances
spirit-hands and arms are very busy. The tying of the
medium does not appear to prevent their formation,
but the holding of his hands seems, so far as we have
seen, to do so. After a short time has elapsed, the
holding of the medium’s hands does not matter much ;
but if the hands be held closely from the first, it is,
probably, a barrier to the production of many manifest¬
ations. This is one of the many reasons why persons
of a thoroughly suspicious nature, get fewer tests and
more inconclusive manifestations than nobler people.
It would seem that the spirits always in close com¬
panionship with powerful physical mediums, because of
similarity of tastes and character, can make themselves
visible with more ease than others. They rise out of
the bodies of the mediums, and, at first, exactly
resemble the mediums, though they can change their
features within certain limits before they show them¬
selves. They do not materialise more of their bodies
than is necessary, but usually form only a head, and
sometimes arms and hands. The faces at Mr. Holmes’s
seances do not seem to come from him, but have been
seen forming near the ceiling of the dark room, and
then floating down towards the opening. Katie has
been seen rising from the body of Miss Cook; and
while she manifested, she was connected with the
medium by cloudy, faintly luminous threads.
The recognisable faces of deceased persons seem to
be formed with more difficulty, and to be able in all
cases to bear less light, than the faces of the spirits in
affinity to the medium. The latter spirits have the
advantage of constant practice in making themselves
visible, which, they say, is one reason why they can
bear more light, their first attempts producing but
weak results. The recognisable faces have less life
in them, and but few of' them can talk. At Mrs.
Andrews’s in America, where this kind of manifesta¬
tion is more developed, they can talk more than they
can at present through any English medium. In no
case, as yet, has a recognisable face been known to
come directly from the face of the medium, in- the
same manner that the faces of their attendant spirits
do. Some of the heads are bound up in white spirit
drapery, or have white turbans upon them, the object,
they say, being to economise power", as the heads would
not last so long were they bare, and wholly materialised.
The intelligences animating the heads for the time
being, say that both light and the intense gaze of the
eyes of the spectators, give them a burning sensation
while manifesting, and cause them to feel tired.
The influence of the spiritual state of the observers
finds optical expression at face seances. Worldly and
suspicious people get the feebler manifestations; the
spirits then have often a pale, ghastly look, as usual
when the power is weak. Spiritual people, in whose
presence the medium feels thoroughly happy, see by
far the finest manifestations. Different mediums, how¬
ever, vary very considerably in their power of resisting
and overcoming adverse mental and psychological influ¬
ences. Although spiritual phenomena are governed by
fixed laws, those laws so work in practice, that Spi¬
ritualism undoubtedly partakes much of the character
of a special revelation to special people.
THE HEALINGl POWER OF MESMERISM.
Among- the many marvellous cures effected by the
agency of mesmerism, and recorded in the Zoist, one of
the most remarkable was performed by Mr. J. C. Lux-
moore, who is well known to many of the readers of
these pages for the aid he has given in various ways
to the cause of Spiritualism. Years ago, while he was
a country magistrate, residing at Alphington, Devon¬
shire, he discovered mesmerism to be true; he then
personally mesmerised patients and published the re¬
sults, notwithstanding the abuse! showered by the news¬
papers, at that time, upon all who had to do with the
unpopular subject.
In 1845 his attention was called to the sufferings of
Mrs. Bird, of Exeter. Mr. Parker, surgeon, of the same
city, certified that when Mr. Luxmoore saw Mrs. Bird ;
she was suffering daily from epileptic fits, varying from
six to eight hours in duration, though sometimes they
continued for forty-eight hours ; she had frequent
delirium, paralysis of the left arm and leg, the left
hand inverted, the vomiting of nearly half her food, a
large painful tumour in the left iliac fossa, and a vio¬
lent cough. She frequently vomited as much as half a
pint of blood at a time; she was afflicted with tic
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
douloureux; the inside of her mouth was covered with
black pustules ; she had a watery eruption on her legs
and feet; and she kept hek bed for seven years. The
doctors had tried all their skill upon her for years in
vain.
Mr. Luxmoore first visited her, in company with Dr.
Parker, on the 24th October, 1845. In seven minutes
he succeeded in putting her into the mesmeric sleep,
and he aroused her at the end of half an hour. He
continued to attend her four or five days in every week,
mesmerising her with great patience. On the third
occasion, community of taste and feeling began to dis¬
play themselves while the patient was in the mesmeric
state, and he found that mesmerism would put a stop
in a few minutes to her fits of delirium. While under
influence she heard no voice but her mesmeriser’s, nor
could she distinguish the loudest mechanical sounds.
Sometimes she was much influenced by his will; she
pointed her finger, opened or closed her hand, placed it
on his knee or took it off, when he silently willed that
she should do so. On Dec. 1st she began to foretell,
while in the somnambulic state, the future course of
her illness, and to prescribe simple remedies. On Dee.
19th she said:—“ I shall be ill on Christmas Day, and
have a very severe fit on the last day of the year; it
will be the worst I have ever had; but if I survive it
I shall be better afterwards.” On the 24th she said
that her second great fit would be on New Year’s Day,
not on Dec. 31st. On the 1st of January, 1846, she
went into frightful convulsions, and sometimes in an
instant jumped from her reclining position, so as to
stand upon her toes; the fits lasted for nearly six
hours, and she was several times thought to be dying,
but gradually the worst symptoms passed away.
She began at last, in the clairvoyant state, to speak
about the early stages of her illness. She said:—
“ The first thing that injured me was being salivated.
My then medical attendant also gave me a solution of
arsenic, which I took till my mouth was all over black
spots; it created inflammation in the stomach which
has never subsided.” In the clairvoyant state she
could see the inside of her body, and describe the con¬
struction of its parts, to the satisfaction of Mr. Parker,
the attendant surgeon. She often described a sort of
coating, containing arsenic, on the inside of her stomach.
She continued to make remarkable statements about
the future course of her illness, which all proved true;
and when anything prevented Mr. Luxmoore from
mesmerising her so frequently as usual, she always
grew worse. On June 8th, Mr. Luxmoore having read
in Professor Gregory’s translation of Reichenbach’s book
that mesmeric sensitives slept best with their heads to
the north, had Mrs. Bird’s bed shifted so that her head
should be turned northwards, and she experienced im¬
mediate benefit from the change.
Mr. Luxmoore mesmerised her four or five times a
week for more than a year, and had to make a journey
of four miles every day to see her. At the end of that
time she still suffered to some extent, but was com¬
paratively well; she had not had a fit for five months,
and scarcely ever vomited her food. Her side had
ceased to pain her.
Had Mrs. Bird been decently killed by an orthodox
doctor, all would have been well so far as public opinion
was concerned, but when it became known that Mr.
Luxmoore was curing her in an unorthodox manner,
Mrs. Grundy began to bestir herself and to circulate all
kinds of false rumours, aided and abetted by the news¬
papers. Mrs. Bird was stigmatised as an impostor, and
there is no doubt that the depression of spirits caused
by the abuse retarded her recovery. The gritty sub¬
stance which she vomited, and which in her clairvoyant
condition she stated to contain the arsenic which had
incommoded her so long, was analysed by Mr. Herapath,
the eminent chemist, and by Dr. Gregory; and they
found it to consist chiefly of arsenite of lime mixed with
organic matter. Dr. Gregory said that arsenite of lime
was so insoluble in water and in cold alkaline solutions,
especially when it was enveloped in a large excess of
carbonate of lime, agglutinated by organic matter, that
he thought a considerable quantity might remain for
years in the stomach without causing death. Mr.
Herapath doubted whether it could do so, the contents
of almost every stomach being acid. Mr. Luxmoore
stated that Mrs. Bird had a strong dislike to salt, and
never took any with her food because of the unpleasant
effects which followed; he therefore thought it pro¬
bable that she had less hydrochloric acid in her stomach
than is found in that of most other persons, and that
this would account for the arsenite of lime being so
little acted upon by the gastric juice.
MRS. JENNIE HOLMES’S MEDITJMSHIP.
BY BENJAMIX COLEMAX.
I desibe to add my testimony to that which has
been recently given by others of Mrs. Holmes’s very
surprising and satisfactory mediumship.
Accompanied by a few of my own friends, we
secured a private sitting with Mrs. Holmes, and we
witnessed, in the course of two hours, a series of phe¬
nomena, which, as most of them have been already
described in your columns, I need do no more than say
were very satisfactory to my mind, and tended to prove
to all who witnessed the Davenport manifestations the
perfect genuineness of those remarkable exhibitions.
It may be remembered that among other strange
developments which have occurred in America, I
recorded, a few years ago, on the authority of Mr.
Washington Dawskin, of Baltimore,—a very reliable
gentleman, whose statements were supported by more
than twenty citizens of that city,—that a boy, when in
a dark room for a few minutes, had a solid iron ring,
much less than the circumference of his head, placed
on his neck, and in an equally short time it was
removed again by the same power, and this was
repeatedly witnessed. The boy, who proved to be a
great medium, was in very weak health, and died a
year or two after.
Previous to this time there was a medium, Mrs. Ferris,
holding seances in New York, at which the “ ring test”
was made a special exhibition. One of the audience
would be asked to take firm hold of the medium’s
hands, and in a momentary interval of darkness, rings,
some made of iron, and others of wood, were slipped on
to his arms, and to those who were selected by the
audience for such a proof of spirit power, this mani¬
festation is very striking.
A great sceptic known to some of Mrs. Ferris’s
friends had been told of the ring manifestations, and
on an appointed evening he was invited to be present.
He came prepared, as it appeared, to defeat the
spirits, and boasted that he “ defied God, man, or
devil to put a ring on his arm against his will.”
The circle being formed and the ring placed on the
| table, the lights were put out, when he surreptitiously
Feb. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
85
withdrew the ring, and substituted one of his own,
which he had had made of strong and hardened iron.
Great was the commotion in that small circle when
the light was restored, for it was found that the ring
was certainly not on his arm, as he defied it to he, but
a solid iron ring belonging to himself was upon his neclc,
fitting it closely.
In vain by supplications and threats he begged to
have it taken off. The “ psychic force ” that had placed
it there refused to remove it, though the medium pleaded
hard for his release. The spirits doubtless knew the
character of the man; had they released him. at once
he would probably have denied - the fact in toto, or
laughed, as such men are pleased to do at what they
call a good conjuring trick. The spirits, too, had, it
would also appear, a merciful end in view, of curing
not only his daring scepticism but a bodily ailment.
He went, in the first instance, to the man who made
the ring, and to several others, but he had ordered this
uncomfortable necklet to be so well made that they
could not remove it.
At length a report reached the spirit circles of Hew
York that a boy of Baltimore was exhibiting the as¬
tonishing fact that a ring was put on his neck and taken
off again with perfect facility.
Thither the fettered victim of misplaced confidence
went, and the circle at Baltimore gladly assisted to
obtain his release.
The medium boy was summoned, and after a short
preliminary sitting he took the captive with him to
an adjoining room, which was dark, and in a minute
or two emerged with the gentleman holding the ring in
his hand.
The compensation which he derived from this strange
freak of the spirits was that a scrofulous disease from
which he had previously suffered was said to be entirely
healed, and he went on his way rejoicing.
I do not stay to argue the point whether such an in¬
cident is likely or not to be true. I have no doubt
whatever of the Baltimore boy having exhibited the
power of the spirits to put a ring round his neck in the
way described; and having had the Hew York story,
which I heard of years ago, corroborated to me lately,
I have no reason to doubt it, especially as I have wit¬
nessed what the spirits can now do with the rings through
Mrs. Holmes’s mediumship, and Mrs. Holmes is the
Mrs. Ferris of whom I have before spoken.
At the seance to which I have alluded, I was
requested to come at the table at which Mr. and Mrs.
Holmes were sitting, and which was placed immediately
under the screen, from the aperture of which the spirit
faces are seen under a subdued light. One or two, out
of some seven or eight which appeared, were most perfect
resemblances of human beings, and, had I known the
features, I could have easily recognised them. A slate
which I had had in my hand was lying on the table;
and having obtained the consent of the spirits to write
something for me, I handed the slate and pencil through
the aperture, and it was taken by what appeared in
form and texture a human hand. I could hear that
writing was being done on the slate, and in the course
of some three or four minutes, the slate was handed
back to me, covered with writing on both sides, very
neatly written, in an uncommon hand, not in the least
resembling the handwriting of either Mr. or Mrs.
Holmes,—very plain and legible to read, and without
the alteration or striking out of a single word.
This is a peculiarity and a power which I have
frequently noticed in spirit writings. The spirits have
not to alter a single word or to transpose a sentence.
The message purported to have been written by the
spirit of Washington Irving, whose writings I used to
read when a youth with pleasure, but I had no
acquaintance with him, and there is no reason that I
know of which should make him write to me ; and if
I were asked whether I believed it to be written by
Washington Irving, I should be obliged to say, “ I do
not.” But the fact still remains that this slate, which
I will keep as a souvenir, is filled as I have described,
with a message—written, as I believe, by no mortal
hand—that would not disgrace the intellect of some of
our best thinkers, and it cannot, therefore, be said in
future that spirits are incapable of giving us anything
better than commonplace platitudes which objectors are
apt to carp at. The following is the message :—
You listen to the physiologist when he gives you an analysis
of the machinery of your body, when ho traces out all the
ropes and pulleys by which motion is conveyed from nerve to
nerve—from limb to limb—from the resolution of the brain to
the action of the hand. But it is quite another thing when
he declares that his analysis exhausts the subject—that mind
is nothing but new force, and mental movements nothing but
the rapid coursing of nerve currents ; that in short our nature
cannot be proved to contain any spiritual element which is
distinct from the material, and, subject to entirely different
laws.
What is it that binds one consequent with the antecedent in
nature ? The truly scientific mind can never attain rest until
it reaches the forces by which the observed succession is
produced.
But admitting this, we say that it is not within the wings
of science to conduct you to a final answer. What is the first
cause that set all this array of force in motion, and which
guides it through the complicated counterplay of nature ?
What ultimate agent poised the stars and fixed the equili¬
brium of the universe, and adjusted and still continues the
complexities of its internal balanced forces ? To this far
more engrossing question science does not lead the way and
cannot supply the answer.
It must leave the mystery unsolved and insoluble, unless it
submits as a learner to be taught through the spiritual philo¬
sophy.—To my friend, Benjamin Coleman.
From Washington Ieving.
Force has no inherent power in itself, except as vitalised
and sustained by the energy of the spirit. W.' I.
PRIVATE SEAHCES.
(Reported by permission.)
SEANCE AT MES. MAKDOTTGALL GREGORY’S.
On Friday evening, January 17th, a seance took
place at the house of Mrs. L. Makdougall Gregory, 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W. Among the guests
present were the Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart.; the
Rev. Yaughan Yarwarth; Miss J. H. Douglas; Mrs.
Alfred Watts; Madame du Quaire; Mr. T. H. Hoyes,
M.A.; Miss Katherine Poyntz ; Mr. and Mrs. Everett,
of Woolwich; Mr. Peele, the artist; the author of the
Unorthodox London letters in the Daily Telegraph; Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.; Mrs. William Crookes; the
Revd. Mr. Short; and Mr. William H. Harrison.
About twenty ladies and gentlemen were present in
all, and six of the guests were clergymen.
The mediums were Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, who had
never been on the premises before. They brought with
them two guitars and other musical instruments, as
well as two tambourine hoops bound with iron, and a
plain wrought iron welded ring. All these were care¬
fully examined by sceptical persons during the half-
hour before the seance began.
The proceedings began with a dark seance, the con-
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
ditions being that all the persons present should hold
each other’s hands—including those of Mr. Holmes—
all the time the light was extinguished, so that there
should be no free hand in the room. The hands of Mrs.
Holmes were not held, but were, as usual at her seances,
tied to the back of a chair with tape by one of the
visitors. At this seance her hands were tied by Sir
William Dunbar.
The guests sat in two rows along one side of the
drawing-room, holding each other and Mr. Holmes.
Mrs. Holmes sat tied to a chair at the other side of
the room, with the instruments near her on a table.
The lights were then put out. At first all was quiet,
but soon the guitars began to fly about with consider¬
able velocity, to tap the sitters at different parts of the
room gently on the head or knees, and a voice, pro¬
nounced to be that of the spirit “ Dick,” was heard in
the neighbourhood of one of the guitars, saying “ How
are you ?” or making other remarks as he touched each
of the visitors with the instrument. Mrs. Holmes was
frequently heard speaking from her place at the other
side of the room, urging “ Dick ” to do his best. After
the lapse of about ten minutes a light was struck. All
present were seen sitting quietly, holding hands, and
the medium, with an unruffled countenance, was in her
seat, with her hands tied to the chair. Sir William
Dunbar examined his knots and tying, and said that
they had not been tampered with, and that her hands
were bound as he had left them.-
Again the lights were put out, and this time the
manifestations were stronger. Nearly everybody in
the large room, both in the front and back row of
sitters, was touched by the flying guitars and stroked
with warm spirit hands. The “ring test” was then
given to three of the guests, who, in turn, went to Mrs.
Holmes, held both her hands, sat on the chair in front
of her, and satisfied themselves that neither they nor
Mrs. Holmes had any rings on their arms. Then, in
the dark, while holding her hands, they were touched
about the head, shoulders, and back, by spirits, and
suddenly one of the rings came upon the arm of the
sitter holding her. Each time the light was struck all
the other guests were seen holding hands, whilst the
person holding Mrs. Holmes sat with the ring on his
arm, looking at it in a state of considerable perplexity,
There was no joint in the rings, and the welded iron
one gave a clear metallic ring when suspended and
struck. Those who had the ring test were a clergyman,
Madame du Quaire, and Sir William Dunbar.
Next there was a sitting for spirit faces. Curtains
were suspended between the front and back rooms, the
latter being in darkness, and used as a cabinet. Mr.
Holmes sat in this room by himself; the observers sat
in the other room, in the light, and the faces showed
themselves through an opening, about a foot in dia¬
meter, between the curtains.
In his own rooms Mr. Holmes sits outside the cur¬
tains, along with the spectators, and the spirits draw
the influence from him, through the curtains, and ma¬
terialise themselves in the empty room ; but even then
their power to manifest is much stronger when he sits
in the dark room. When he sits away from home, the
room and curtains not being charged by constant use
with the emanations from him, he is obliged to sit
inside the darkened room. On the same principle,
new musical instruments can never be handled by spirits
so readily as their old ones and manifestations are
always stronger in the house a medium lives in.
Soon after Mr. Holmes entered the dark room the
faces began to appear. The amount or light permitted
in the other room was feeble, so that only those seated
within two or three yards of the curtains could see the
features. Eour faces came, but two of them appeared
twice; they were of alabaster whiteness; the cheeks,
were in some cases lightly tinged with colour. The
first face was said to be Miss .Cook’s spirit “ Katie,”
and Mr. Harrison, who was asked if he could recognise
it, said there was not light enough for him to do so with
certainty. Two old gentlemen, one of them with a
whiteboard, appeared; the face of a middle-aged lady
was also seen. None of the faces were recognised.
In fact, the power was rather weak and the light feeble,
but it was very good for a first sitting for faces in a house
the mediums had not entered before, and where they
were surrounded by new influences.
Altogether the sittings were highly successful, and
gave great pleasure as well as instruction to the guests
whom Mrs. Gregory so kindly invited. The results
told greatly in favour of the mediums, since they ob¬
tained such fine physical manifestations in the presence
of unexceptionable witnesses, in a house where aid from
machinery or confederates was impossible, and where
the positions of the hands of everybody present was
known all the time the lights were extinguished. One
reason why Mrs. Gregory usually gets good manifesta¬
tions in her own home is that she understands the con¬
ditions which favour the phenomena. Many of these
conditions were stated in the first article in No. 39 of
The Spiritualist.
SEANCE AT MBS. SCOTT’S.
On Monday evening, Jan. 13th, a seance was held
at Mrs. Scott’s, 37, Abingdon Yillas, Kensington, W.
Among the guests present were Mr. Gerald Massey,
the poet, Mr. N. Eabyan Dawe, and one of the principal
physicians in London. Miss Florence Cook and Mrs.
Bassett were the mediums.
Miss Cook first sat for spirit-faces in an extemporised
cabinet. “Katie” appeared at once, but took offence
somewhat needlessly, it was' thought, at a slight
remark. She refused to manifest further, but said
that she had plenty of work to do that night. Raps
through Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship said that “ Katie
was sulky.” All this was very disappointing, so far as
the spectators at Mrs. Scott’s were concerned, but,
some days later, it was ascertained that the spirit
“ Katie,” appeared two miles from Miss Cook at Mr.
Holmes’s public circle, 16, Old Quebec-street. Marble
Arch, W., and talked to Mr. Luxmoore and the visitors
there, while Mrs. Scott’s party at Kensington were
waiting in vain for manifestations. Miss Cook was at
Mrs. Scott’s, on the Monday evening, from five till
eleven o’clock, and her spirit “Katie” appeared and
talked to the visitors at Mr. Holmes’s at about a
quarter-past nine on the same evening. Mr. Luxmoore
knows Katie’s features and voice well, and the follow¬
ing is his statement of the circumstances :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sib,—Will you kindly give the following account of a
seance which was held at Mr. Holmes’s, 16, Old Quebec-street,
on Monday, the 13th inst., a place in the next number of the
Spiritualist?' Mr. Holmes’s rooms have so often been de¬
scribed, that I consider it quite unnecessary to enter into much
detail. It will, however, be perhaps as well to say that there
are folding doors connecting the front room in which we sit
with a back drawing-room, into which there are two other
entrances, both of which were securely locked, and the keys
left in the locks, on the inside. This room was thoroughly
Feb. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
searched by myself and others immediately before the com¬
mencement of the seance^ and also immediately after, when
both doors were found locked, and the keys in the locks ; in¬
deed, one gentleman, whose name I did not know, stated that
he had so placed the bows of .the keys, that they should stand
at right angles to the keyhole, and that they were in that
position when he examined them after the seance. I regret
having found it necessary to write so long an explanation, but
knowing, as I have good cause to, the absurd objections that
are too frequently raised, I feel it desirable to be particular.
We first had a short dark seance, during which the influence
(although Mrs. Holmes was far from well) appeared to be very
strong, and the circle fairly harmonious. The instruments
flew about the room in all directions, touching, I believe,
everyone present. I was touched ten or twelve times, either
by hand or instruments, and spectacles were taken from the
face of a gentleman who sat four or five from me on the left,
and placed inside my waistcoat. I should add that Mrs.
Holmes was tied, and all present were requested to—and, as
far as I know, did—join hands during the whole time. Much
more took place, but as similar phenomena have so often been
recorded in the Spiritualist, I omit giving particulars, in
order at once to come to the second portion of the seance—
that in which faces are shown. This commenced about nine
o’clock. One of the folding doors leading into the back
drawing-room is replaced by a screen of what, I believe, is
called American leather cloth, in which there is a square hole,
about six feet from the ground. A small card table is placed
in front of this screen, at which Mr. and Mrs. Holmes sit.
There was a dim light from a lamp in the room we were in.
I, with one or two others, were requested to sit at the table
with Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, and join hands ; the table tilted,
and raps came in answer to questions, and in a few minutes
a thin, narrow face appeared at the aperture, but rather too
far back to be very plainly seen well by those who were close.
Then three or four other faces came, one of a young boy,
another of a man with beard and whiskers ; these were very
plainly seen by, I should think, all present. Last of all came
“ Katie,” who generally, or, I believe I might say always,
presents herself at Miss Cook’s seances. I have seen her three
times at Hackney, and could perfectly identify the face. She,
as usual, spoke in a whisper, but not sufficiently loud for me
to distinguish what was said. I, although I had not the
slightest doubt as to the identity, said, “If you are Katie, put
out your chin as you do at Miss Cook’s.” This was at once
done, and I should think it perfectly impossible for anyone
who has had the privilege of attending Miss Cook’s seances,
to have a single doubt of its being the same face we see there,
and supposing this fact established, I consider it most im¬
portant, as many who have seen Katie at Hackney, although
confirmed Spiritualists, remark that Katie’s face is very much
like the medium’s. I confess I have never been able to trace
any resemblance, at all events, below the line of the eyes ;
but as in the appearance above recorded, Miss Cook was not
near, no inferences occasioning difficulties can be drawn.
Not having made notes of the above until more than a week
after the seance, I cannot be as minute as I could have wished.
16, Gloster-square, Hyde-park. J. C. Luxmoobe.
Some voice and rapping manifestations were obtained
at Mrs. Scott’s through Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship.
Later in the evening, between ten and eleven o’clock,
Miss Cook sat again for the faces. Katie showed her¬
self in a strong light, with the spectators close round
the cabinet, and Mrs. Scott called general attention to
the fact that Katie’s eyes were light blue in colour,
whilst the eyes of Miss Cook were dark. Katie also
changed her face from white to dark black in a few
seconds.
SEANCES AT ME. HENKY COOK’S.
Three seances have been held since the date of our
last report, at the house of Mr. Henry Cook, of
Hackney. The spirit Katie being usually, but not
always, very much like the medium. Miss Florence
Cook, in features, Miss Cook has a string tied round
her waist, and sealed by the most sceptical person
present. The end of this string is then passed through
a hole in the cabinet, and held by one or more
of the persons outside, so that if Miss Cook rose from
her seat, it would be known by the pull on the string.
The amount of this pull is usually two or three inches,
and the amount of pull necessary to enable her to get
her own face out of the opening in the top of the cabinet
would be more than thirty inches.
About a fortnight ago Mr. H. Cholmondeley-Pennell,
the poet, was at one of the seances, and after it was
over he said that before any faces appeared there were
intermittent small pulls at the string, which altogether
drew into the cabinet a length of string, thereby
vitiating the observed manifestations. Katie said that
she did not know of the said pulls; that he should have
called attention to the fact at the time, and had the
string drawn out before the faces appeared. At a pre¬
vious seance, some time ago, there was stated to have
been a similar pull, after and not before the faces were
seen.
On Monday evening, January 20th, among the guests
present were Mrs. L. Mackdougall-Gregory, of 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square; Sir William Dunbar,
Bart., of Walwyn’s Castle, Pembrokeshire; and Mr.
Henry M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-law. They were told
of the failure with Mr. Pennell, and asked to be par¬
ticular in ascertaining the exact amount of pull on
the string. Sir William Dunbar tied the medium,-
and sealed the string, which was then pulled nearly
tight, and the end tied to the back of a chair outside
the cabinet, so that any pull above two or three inches
would drag the chair along the floor before the whole
company of witnesses. Katie soon put her face out at
the opening, looked down at the chair and laughed at
it, changed her face from white to inky black several
times in a few seconds, and asked for a needle and
thread, with which she sewed up a hole in the curtain,
to show that her hands were not mechanical. All
through the seance the pull on the string did not exceed
the two or three inches of slack allowed. We have
received the following letter about the seance from Mr,
Dunphy:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
SlE,—Having heard that Mr. Pennell had stated that when
holding the string by which Miss Cook was tied, he noticed
“a pull of many inches,” a circumstance which, by the way,
he did not disclose at the moment, I was anxious to submit
a test, and with your permission, will endeavour to state the
result.
The seance was held at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Cook on
Monday evening, the 19th inst., and the circle included the
Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart., Lady X, Mrs. Gregory, of
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and
myself.
Prior to entering the cabinet, a thin string was passed round
the waist of Miss Cook, and sealed in two places. The end of
the string was then passed through the door, and fastened to
the back of a chair, the tension being sufficiently tight to draw
the chair towards the cabinet, had the medium moved in
order to produce the manifestations that followed. As a
further precaution, the places on the carpet covered by the legs
of the chair were marked with white paper, which was not
disturbed by any movement of the object. Shortly afterwards,
a man’s face made its appearance, and subsequently a black
face. Eventually “ Katie ” came, and a bouquet of flowers
having been handed to her, she placed a camellia in her hair,
and made the other flowers up into little bunches, which she
threw to the visitors.
I am quite positive that the string was never pulled, and
that the chair was never moved, and I deem it but fair to Miss
Cook (whose mediumship is incomparable to anything ever
before witnessed in Europe) to attest this fact, r
Henky M. Dunphy.
3, Essex-court, Temple, January, 1873.
After tbe first sitting there was an interval of rest.
When Miss Cook entered tbe cabinet again loud raps
came upon a table about a yard outside the cabinet
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
and after much questioning the rapper alleged himself
to be,“ Johnny P ’s devil;” in life he had been a
soldier: he disliked the medium, and was determined
to stop the manifestations and injure the medium, if he
could. All this time Katie was rapping inside the
cabinet, in which also were scratching noises and heavy
blows. The loud raps . on the table then gradually
travelled to the inside of the cabinet, and tried to con¬
fuse the sitters in their attempts to get a message from
the gentler raps of Katie, who asked for a dark seance
to get rid of the bad influence which had found its way
into the circle. Accordingly there was a dark seance,
with no physical manifestations; at the close Katie
said that the bad spirit had been turned out, and would
give no further trouble.
On Wednesday evening, January 22nd, there was
another seance at Mr. Cook’s, and among the guests
present were Mr. Fabyan Dawe, of Portman Cham¬
bers, Portman-square, W.; Mr. E. Edmiston and Miss
E. Edmiston, of Beckenham, Kent; and Mrs. A. Corner,
one of the leading members of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism. They were asked to tie
and seal the medium, and be very careful to ascertain
the exact amount of pull on the string. The end of the
string as before was tied to the back of a chair outside
the cabinet, and two inches of slack allowed. While
Mr. Dawe was in the act of closing the door of the
cabinet, Katie began to pull the little curtains about at
the opening above. There was a very good seance, in
the course of which the spirits made a hideous noise by
playing a concertina and harmonica at the same time,
and while two spirit hands were projecting from the
window of the cabinet. We have received the following
letter about the seance from Mr. Dawe
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sib,—On Wednesday evening last I was present at Miss
Cook’s seance and was asked to tie the medium, and did so in
the following manner, viz., passed one end of a long string
around her waist, tying it in a strong knot and sealing the
ends with my ring, in two separate places. She then took her
seat in the cabinet, and I passed the end of the string out
through a hole in the cabinet door, drawing it in a straight
line—allowing about two inches slack—tied it to the back of
a chair placed about four feet from the door—so that all
could see if the string had been withdrawn more than the
two inches allowed for any slight movement of the medium.
The door was then locked, and I retained the key. In a very
few minutes Katie and others appeared in succession—Katie
especially continuing to manifest herself at long continued
intervals during the hour and half’s seance, the whole of
which time the slack of the cord was not once withdrawn or
the chair moved. Within five minutes of its close Katie said
she would now tie up the medium herself, and a cord was
handed to her for that purpose. When the door was opened
I found Miss Cook, both hands firmly tied to the back of the
chair, while the ends of the cord were brought forward and
tied in several knots in the front of her waist, after untying
which and removing her from the cabinet, I narrowly examined
the cord around the waist and the seals, which I found pre¬
cisely as I left them, and I am thoroughly convinced it was
quite impossible for the medium to have moved without
immediate detection by myself and others present.
N. Fabyan Dawe.
Portman Chambers, Portman Square, W.,
January 25th, 1873.
At the preceding seances Mr. Dawe and Mr. Dunphy
carefully examined the string used, to see that it was
all in one length, and that there were no knots in it,
except those made and sealed by the visitors. At both
these seances, when the manifestations were over and
the cabinet opened, the medium was found with her
hands firmly tied behind her back with many double
knots to the back rail of her chair, and the extreme
ends of the same piece of tape were drawn tight and
knotted together in front of her waist.
Miss Cook is even more sensitive than Mrs. Everitt
to adverse mental influences at seances, perhaps because
she has been a medium but a short time, and the power
is undeveloped; a very little opposing influence weakens
or stops the manifestations; although this is a disadvan¬
tage, so far as proselytising work is concerned, the
extreme sensitiveness is of value in the scientific study
of the phenomena. It is not necessary that a visitor
should have an acrid feeling against the whole subject,
to stop the manifestations. One night there was a
circle of persons in no way prejudiced against the sub¬
ject, but for two hours no manifestations could be
obtained. A visitor then left, and directly afterwards
the faces began to show themselves. The visitor who had
left, was not only not prejudiced against Spiritualism,
but earnestly desired to see manifestations, which did
not take place in consequence of intense anxiety of
mind on the part of this particular guest, the said
anxiety being about another subject. There is a dis¬
tinct reflex action between the mental states of the
sitters, and the character and strength of the pheno¬
mena. Once a sitter who naturally would get good
manifestations, had been prejudiced against them before
coming, and the mental impurity thus introduced, inno¬
cently and unconsciously by the visitor, distinctly
weakened the phenomena. An analogous example may
be seen in physics, where a neutral insulated brass ball
may be charged with electricity by contact with the
knob of a charged conductor, and will then give up its
electricity when brought into contact with a third brass
ball, previously in a neutral state.
Chairs of various heights, for the medium to sit
upon, have been tried inside Miss Cook’s cabinet.
When Miss Cook stands on tiptoe on the seat of the
one now used, and clutches the woodwork of the
cabinet with both hands, her eyes and the top half of
her nose can be seen at the bottom of the cabinet
window. When the medium is seated in this chair,
tied, and sealed, Katie floats up to the top of the
cabinet, showing her chin and neck, and putting her
whole head out with great ease. She has also mani¬
fested, when a child’s chair has been used, so low that
the medium, when standing on it on tiptoe, could not
show the top of her head at the bottom of the cabinet
window. Katie could still manifest, while Miss Cook
was seated in the low chair, but had to turn her face
upwards to get her chin over the edge of the opening.
Thus the distance to which a materialised spirit can
remove from the body of a medium, seems to be limited,
unless the powers of a second medium be brought into
piay.
Katie’s face varies at different times, which is one
reason why witnesses vary so much in their statements
about its resemblance to Miss Cook’s. One night,when
Mr. Brooks and the Daily Telegraph Commissioner
were present, the heads were half as big again as the
head of Miss Cook, and some bore no resemblance to
her.
Professob Tyndall will leave America in a few days,
and expects to reach Liverpool on the 15th of this month.
A genuine spirit photograph has recently been taken by
Mr. Slater, the optician, through the mediumship of the per¬
son who, some time since, increased his profits by mixing up
sham with real spirit-pictures. In the picture taken by Mr.
Slater, the background does not print in front of the sitters,
as was the case in the spurious photographs.
Feb. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
The annual meeting of tlie members of the Anthropological
Institute was held on Tuesday night, January 21st, at 4] St.
Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, London ; Sir John Lubbock,
Bart., M.P., F.K.S., in the chair. Among the large number
of members present were Professor Huxley, F.R.S. ; Mr. W.
Boyd Dawkins, F.R.S. ; Mr. A. R. Wallace; Col. A. Lane
Fox; Professor G. Rolleston, M.D., F.R.S. ; Sir Duncan
Gibb, Bart., M.D. ; Mr. Moncure D. Conway; Dr. R. S.
Charnock, F.S.A. ; Professor George Busk, F.R.S. (late
President of the Royal College of Surgeons) ; Dr. Carter
Blake ; Mr. Hyde Clarke ; Major S. R. I. Owen ; Dr. Camp¬
bell ; the Rev. Dunbar I. Heath ; Mr. N. Triibner; Mr. John
Beddoe, M.D.-; Major-General Clerk; and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and con¬
firmed, the President announced that the ballot for the elec¬
tion of the new Council would be open for an hour, and he
appointed Major Owen and Mr. T. M’K, Hughes as
scrutineers.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., read the treasurer’s report and
the report of tlie Council, from which it appeared that the
amount received last year for subscriptions was £1,238 5s. 4d.
During the year the debts of the society had been reduced
from £1,012 2s. 3d. to £762 12s. 9d., representing a saving of
£249 9s. 6d. It was announced that the policy of the Council
would be not to incur additional expenses, but to clear off all
the debt as quickly as possible.
After a short discussion, in which Dr. Robertson, Mr. Boyd
Dawkins, Mr. E. Charles worth, Mr. C. R. Des Ruffiferes, and
Sir John Lubbock took part, the report of the Council was
passed unanimously.
Sir John Lubbock then read his presidential address, which
dealt chiefly with the subject of prehistoric man, and contained
nothing about psychology.
Dr. Beddoe, Dr. Langdon Down, Mr. Charlesworth, and
Mr. Brabrook, having made a few remarks about the contents
of the address, a vote ‘of thanks for it was passed, and it was
ordered to be printed and published in the journal of the
institute.
Sir John Lubbock then proposed a vote of thanks to the
retiring members of the Council. He said that it was true,
that at that moment his hearers did not know who the retiring
members were, the scrutineers not having given in their report
as to the results of the ballot. The election was a contested
one, and there were differences of opinion about the manage¬
ment of the institute, which he hoped would not degenerate
into personal feeling. Whoever the retiring members might
be, he was quite satisfied that they had done what they
believed to be for the good of the society. (Applause).
Mr. F. Hindmarsh, F.G.S., seconded the vote of thanks,
which was passed unanimously.
The President said that the scrutineers not being ready
with their report, he might, perhaps, be permitted to occupy
spare time by stating what steps had been taken for the pre¬
servation of the prehistoric stone monuments in the United
Kingdom. He intended to introduce a bill into parliament,
to take from the owners of prehistoric monuments the power
of destroying them, without first giving the nation the option
of purchasing them. Last year he went to Salisbury, near
which three dolmens were marked on the ordance maps ; one
of them was all right, the second had been partly destroyed to
make roads, the third was gone entirely, having Been used by
a farmer to make gateposts. Very moderate compensation
would have preserved these monuments.
Mr. Hammond explained how carefully the Government of
Holland preserved all its prehistoric monuments.
Mr. M. D. Conway asked, if supposing the bill became
law, there would not be a threatened general destruction of
the monuments, in order to induce the Government to buy
them?
Mr. Hyde Clarke wished to know whether Sir John Lubbock
had obtained any information through the Foreign Office as
to the preservation of such monuments in other countries?
Mr. W. Howard said that there were many dolmens between
Barmouth and Harlech, but the farmers were destroying them
because Philistines from London trespassed on their fields to
see them. ' If the Government bought the monuments how
could right of way to them be guaranteed ?
Mr. Boyd Dawkins said that many of these monuments had
been hedged around by superstitions, in consequence of which
the country people had preserved them for ages; but as the
superstitions died out, the farmers unfortunately began to
cart away the monuments. In the year 1859 certain anti¬
quaries explored a chamber dolmen in the Isle of Man, and
the farmer to whom it belonged was so moved by the sacrilege
that he actually killed a heifer and burnt it; this he supposed
was the last case of a burnt sacrifice in Great Britain.
(Laughter.) In the Isle of Man dolmens are supposed to
belong to the fairies, and it is unlucky to touch them.
Sir John Lubbock said that although they had tried, very
little information had been obtained through the Foreign
Office about the preservation of prehistoric stone monuments
in foreign countries. If the monuments were bought by the
Government, existing Acts would give the public the right of
way to them. A clause in his bill would enable the local
authorities to obtain possession of them.
The scrutineers then entered the room and declared the
following Council to be elected by a majority of forty-one
votes:—President: Prof. Geo. Busk, F.R.S. Vice-Presidents:
Mr. John Beddoe, M.D., Mr. J. Barnard Davis, M.D., F.R.S.,
Mr. John Evakis, F.R.S., Col. A. Lane Fox, F.S.A., Prof.
Huxley, F.R.S., Sir John Lubbock, Bt., F.R.S. Director:
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A. Treasurer: Mr. J. W. Flower,
F.G.S. Council: Mr. H. G. Bohn, F.R.G.S.,Capt. R. F. Burton,
Mr. A. Campbell, M.D., Mr. Hyde Clarke, Mr. W. Boyd
Dawkins, F.R.S., Prof. P. M. Duncan, M.D.,F.R.S., Mr. Robert
Dunn, F.R.C.S., Mr. David Forbes, F.R.S., Mr. A. W. Franks,
M. A., Mr. Francis Galton, F.R.S., Mr. C. R. Markham, C.B.,
Capt. Sherd. Osborn, C.B.,R.N., Capt. Bedford Pim, R.N.,
Mr. F. G. H. Price, F.G.S., Mr. J. E. Price, F.S.A., Mr. F. W.
Rudler, F.G.S., Mr. C. R. Des Ruffi&res, F.R.S.L., Mr. W.
Spottiswoode, Y.P.R.S., Mr. E. Burnet Tylor, F.R.S., Mr. A.
R. Wallace, F.L.S.
There were seventeen votes for the following Council, pro¬
posed by the dissentient members for election :—President,
Dr. Charnock ; vice-presidents, Professor Busk, Mr. J. Evans,
Sir Duncan. Gibb, Mr. A. W. Franks, Mr. G. Harris, Sir John
Lubbock, Bart. ; director, Mr. E. W. Bradbrook ; treasurer,
Mr. J. W. Flower; cov/ncil, Dr. Beddoe, Mr. W. Blackmore,
Mr. H. G. Bohn, Mr. R. F. Burton, Mr. Hyde Clarke, Mr. M.
D. Conway, Professor P. M. Duncan, Mr. R. Dunn, Mr. D.
Forbes, Colonel Lane Fox, Dr. R. King, Mr. Joseph Kaines,
Mr. A. L. Lewis, Mr. C. R. Markham, Mr. J. Barr Mitchell,
Mr. J. S. Phene, Mr. J. E. Price, Mr. W. Spottiswoode, Mr. C.
Staniland Wake, and Mr. A. R. Wallace.
The Council under the presidency of Professor Busk, was
then declared to be duly elected.
A few formal votes of thanks having been passed,
Professor Busk, F.R.S., returned thanks for the prospective
honour of having been elected to the arduous post of president
of the institute. He hoped that the small storm the institute
had just passed through would be followed by a calm, since
storms to vessels upon a lee shore were not conducive to
safety. Although the Anthropological Society was steering
off with a favourable wind, very small changes in the wind
might yet bring her to grief. Still, he should not be justified
in comparing his prospective difficulties with the difficulties
of those who had steered the ship through more troublous
waters than he would have to encounter. (Applause.)
A few more votes of thanks were given, and the proceedings
closed.
The seance with Miss Fox and Mr. Home, recently
described by the Times commissioner, took place at 20, Morn-
ington-road, N.W., the house of a well-known fellow of the
Royal Society.
A Pjropheiic Yisioh.—The January number of Good
Words, 1873, contains a sketch of the life of the celebrated
violinist, Nicolo Paganini, and the writer (the Rev.H.R. Haweis)
says :—“ Paganini pere may have been a street porter, as
some pretend, or a small tradesman, as others, probably in
the right, affirm. He was a sharp man; he was a cruel man;
he did overmuch to develop his son’s talents, and overmuch
to ruin his health, and probably is chargeable with having
destroyed his mental and moral equilibrium for life. Nicolo’s
mother was a sweet, amiable woman—she loved her boy, she
believed in him, she often stood between him and the rod,
she prayed for him, and saw one night in a vision a celestial
being, who told her that the boy would become the greatest
violinist that ever lived. How far this dream, which she lost
no time in communicating to father and son, increased the
father’s severity, and fired his ambition, we cannot tell; but
the dream seems to have been a well established fact, and
years afterwards, when thS mother was old, and the son at
his zenith, she reminded him of it, as of an incident which
had been familiar to both of them throughout their lives.”
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
<ZtoTOspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.}
Sib,—In reference to the note at foot of page 66, in the last
Number of the Spiritualist, I beg to refer you to Mr. Darwin’s
book on The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals,
where he cites the case of a man in India who was about to be
executed, and whose hair, when he was on the scaffold, was
observed by the spectators to change from a dark to a lighter
tint; it appears to me scarcely credible, but he certainly refers
to it. . Gr. T. Thomson, M.D.
Clifton, Bristol, Jan. 16th, 1873.
THE INFLUENCE OE FEA.B, UPON THE AIK.
Sib,—My mother, now in her eighty-seventh year, had in
her own person the phenomenon of whitened hairs suddenly
produced some fifty years ago, when my sister was in her fatal
illness.
One morning when brushing her hair, my mother saw when
at the glass that the front hair of her head was white ; she
thought that some flour or other substance had somehow got
there; but no, the hair had from black turned white; the
agony of the previous day in the sick room having effected the
change.
We have the same kind of action when fear dries the mouth,
and the ordinary flow of saliva is for a time stopped.
The immense power of the invisible substance called the
mind, can be easily proved by inquiry in a few family circles ;
as to malformations of ear, of hand, &c., produced before
birth, the cause being easily traced to the mind of the mother
startled at seeing the deformity, and then producing the
deformity. I have a budget of facts. Taste, longings, are in
like manner given to the child by the sudden action of the
mother. Tempers, dispositions are in like manner stamped in
the child by the accidental outburst of incident, that has pho¬
tographed itself, and remains by living continuity in the
child. Many facts I have.
A father should in the early stage of his child’s life govern
himself discreetly, and surround himself and wife with the
healthy, the good, the pure, so as to have a healthy moral
child to comfort him in after life.
Enmore-park, Norwood, Enmore Jones.
27th January, 1873.
Sir,—-In reply to your query in the last number of the
Spiritualist, my wife some years ago knew a young lady who
suddenly found her mother dead, the effect of which changed
her very dark hair perfectly grey. She was about eighteen
years old.
12, Forest-road, Dalston, George Blyton.
Sir,—You ask for authenticated.cases of change of hair
from fear or trouble. One case is within my own knowledge
of the hair turning grey in one night, owing to great pertur¬
bation, caused by the expectation of being dismissed from a
public appointment, and which would have proved ruinous to
the party. There are several apparently well authenticated
cases of this kind in books bearing on the subject. I also
know of cases where the hair has gradually turned grey from
excessive grief. These, indeed, are, I believe, not uncommon,
Southall. A Barrister.
Sir,—Some twenty-five years ago was published a work
called Wild Sports of the West, which I read at the time. In
it is the following history of an instance of sudden blanching
of the hair :—Some young men went on an expedition to rob
eagles’ nests of their eggs. One of them went down in a
strong basket held by a double strung rope; the precipice
went sheer down to an immense depth. The young man was
armed with a cutlass to enable him to meet ’the eagles who
might attack him. His companions above held the rope and
his weight, letting him down or drawing him up as he should
call. When at a good distance down the precipice an eagle
attacked the man in the basket, and he, in his confused and,
perhaps, nervous use of the cutlass against his enemy cut one
of the ropes through. Fortunately, he held with his other
hand the double rope above the point at which one had been
cut, so that, though he did not fall, his safety now depended
on the enduring strength o£ one arm. With the voice which
terror had left him he called to his companions above to draw
him up immediately and rapidly. I forget how long, the story
says, this required ; but it tells how, when he landed at the
top, his hair was blanched. So long it is since I read the
account, there may be some want in the details, but I believe
that the general facts are as I have related them.
Regarding the possibility of such a change, and the process
by which it is effected, until we are acquainted with the inti¬
mate action of that which we call vitality, it is impossible to
do more than refer it to a group of other phenomena with
which it is intimately allied. The hair and the colour of it
are secreted matters of the circulating blood, under the in¬
fluence of the nervous centres and nervous periphery. On giving
a great shock to the brain and spinal cord, it is well known
what startling changes are caused in the secretions of the
stomach, bowels, kidneys, skin, and womb. A meal in process
of healthy digestion is instantaneously vomited in an intensely
acid condition, under a mental shock; the bowels are
instantaneously relaxed or swollen with-secreted air, and the
kidneys pour out enormous secretions under the same circum¬
stances ; the skin sweats profusely and fcetidly under mental
agitation, and fright deprives it of all colour, or gives it a
green or leaden hue. The mouth ceases to secrete at all
under agitation, or pours out a most offensive vapour. Take
that most mysterious of all secretions, the deposit of a child
as yet unborn; every one knows how frequently that
wondrous deposited matter is thrown off when a moral shock
on the brain passes like lightning from it downwards. With
these analogous instances I can see no improbability in the
rapid cessation of deposit and discharge of colour that is
already deposited in the hair; for, be it remarked, absorption
is a vital process as well as deposit, and is equally under the
control of the nervous tissue of the body in its centre, and
in its diffusion to every minute secreting blood vessel. Some¬
thing like •* psychic force” may be at work here ; but, after
all, the spiritual man has been shocked.
Streatham, Jan. 26th, 1873. J. M. Gully, M.D.
[Although it has1 long been generally believed that intense grief will
suddenly whiten the hairs of the head, even writers upon the subject have
been doubtful whether the supposed fact could be authenticated. One good
instance is given in the above letters, in the case of Mr.'Jones’s mother.
Cannot other correspondents give full names and addresses of persons now
living, who have had their hair whitened, together with brief letters from
the medical gentlemen who observed the cases, should they be able to state
additional circumstances of scientific interest ?—ED.]
THE FOREIGN LITERATURE OF SPIRITUALISM,#
To the Editor of the “ Times."
Sir,—A friend, unmindful of the aphorism, ‘ ‘ Where igno¬
rance is bliss,” &c., has just sent me a copy of the Times, of
the 26th ultimo, containing an article headed Spiritualism
and Science, in the eighth paragraph of which I find a mis¬
statement that I hasten to bring to your notice, trusting to
your well-known love of fair play to allow me to rectify it is
your columns.
In the paper alluded to by your contributor, I designate
the Creator as “the causal being,” in contradistinction to
what we call “ the universe ” regarded as the effect of the
creative action which is its cause. Your contributor, mis¬
reading the words “ the causal ” as “ the casual,” asserts that
I call the Deity “ a Casual Being.”
Surely, the force of “ inaccuracy ” could no farther go!
In order, sir, that you may judge whether the “casual”
glances of your contributor have enabled him to give a correct
account of the “ production ” of which he disposes so sum¬
marily, I beg to state that the paper in question, which carries
ontological hypothesis farther than has been done by Kant or
Spinoza,’claims to explain the so-called “spiritual phenomena,”
by propounding a theory of existence in which those “ phe¬
nomena ” take their place as a normal result of human pro¬
gress. And in order to show you that there is “ method ” in
the “madness” which your contributor “casually” ascribes
to me, I beg to offer you the following summary of the heads
of the argument by which I endeavour to prove that view of
the subject:—
“ Necessity of interpreting facts by theory, and of testing
theory by facts.—Impossibility of judging correctly of any
class of phenomena otherwise than in connection with the
other classes of phenomena with which they are connected,
* This letter, which is one of those not printed by the Times during the
recent discussion in that journal, contains some interesting information
about Spiritualism in foreign countries.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
91
Feb. 1, 1873.
and consequent impossibility of judging correctly of the so-
called “spiritual phenomena,” otherwise than with the aid of
a general theory of the life we are living and of the universe
in which we find ourselves.—A priori probability of our being
on the eve of the formation of such a theory, constituting a
new religious synthesis in harmony with the scientific dis¬
coveries of the day.—Self-existence and derived existence.—
Demonstration of the existence and action of the causal being,
whose modus operandi is gradually made known to us through
the discoveries of positive science. —Soul, force, matter, and
role of each in the production of the universe.—Aim of the
creative action.—Immutability of natural law.—Our solar
system.—Functions and hierarchy of planets.—Education and
development of soul through its formation of the bodies of the
mineral, vegetable, and animal reigns.—Individualisation of
souls.—The two paths.—The Elohim.—Human life and
destiny. —Illustration of the foregoing theory by instances of
spirit-action in my own experience and in that of my personal
friends.”
So much for the contents of the * ‘ fifty pages of close print,”
so strangely commented upon 'by your contributor ; a limit
which I think you will admit, sir, to have been a narrow one
for the discussion of such a theme, and whose narrowness,
in fact, necessitated the suppression of the notes of scientific
indications originally appended to my paper; indications
which will be abundantly cited in my forthcoming book on
the same subject.
May I be allowed a farther portion of your valuable space
to add that your contributor is but partially aware of the
proportions already attained by the system of “ imposture ”
and “ legerdemain,” which he so earnestly calls upon men of
science to investigate ?
To the Spiritualists of England and the United States
(already, as remarked by your contributor, numbering many
millions, possessing a press of their own, andT publishing
nearly a dozen periodicals), must be added the host of their
co-believers, variously estimated at from eight to ten millions
scattered over all the rest of the globe, who, under the dis¬
tinctive appellation of Spiritists, regard the writings of the
late Allan Kardec as constituting the basis (but the basis
only) of the new religious synthesis they look for as the
result of the great Spiritualistic movement of our time.
The Kardec books * have been translated into every Euro¬
pean tongue excepting our own. Three hundred and fifty
thousand copies of them have been sold in France alone;
making a total, inclusive of the sale of the various transla¬
tions in the countries to which they belong, of over half a
million of them now in circulation, every one df which is the
centre of "a group of firm believers in the fact of spirit-com¬
munication. And the demand for these works is still going
on, as an eminent opponent of Spiritualism says of the play
of energies in the microscopic hair of a plant, ‘ ‘ without pause
or sign of weakening.”
These works, so widely disseminated elsewhere, being
almost unknown in England, I beg to quote the following
passage from a letter recently addressed to me by a learned
liberal clergyman in the South of England (not a Spiritualist),
in reference to the Livre des Esprits, which constitutes the
first of the series:—“I have read this book with very great
pleasure. It offers a rational and coherent explanation of
life and duty which I should be glad to see presented to the
English public in an English dress. I should like to review
it in one of our leading Quarterlies, giving copious extracts. ”
Another English clergyman, not personally known to me, in
writing to thank me for what he terms my “ noble testimony ”
to the subject which has not yet “ put on its silver slippers,”
thus expresses himself :—“ In 18— when travelling on the
Continent for the benefit of my health, which had given way
under the torture of doubts suggested by a course of theolo¬
gical study, I happened to meet with Kardec’s Livre des
Esprits. To describe to you the light, the joy, the peace,
which filled my mind on the perusal of this admirable book
would be impossibe. It was truly a passing from night to
sunshine.”
I enclose the names of these gentlemen confidentially, and
for your own satisfaction only.
The appearance of the work alluded to, in 1858, was fol¬
lowed by the formation of Spiritist societies all over France
and in nearly every other country; by the production of an
extensive Spiritist literature, comprising many erudite and
* Le Livre des Esprits, Le Livre des Mediums, Le Ciel et VEnfer, L'Evangile
selon le Spiritisme, La Qen&se, and two smaller works entitled respectively
OM'est ce que dest le Spiritime t and Le Spiritisme « wpine simple expression.
valuable works; and by the publication of forty-six periodicals,*
all in full activity, and most of them of many years’ standing,
besides a great number of little local sheets devoted to the
propagation of the same ideas.
It is evident, therefore, that the hold already taken upon
the mind of the world by the modern “ delusion,” fully justifies
the notice which you have accorded to it, and that those on
whom lies the burden of disproof have no easy task before
them.
But why, let me ask, should it be considered desirable
to disprove the asserted communication with spirits which
would be so conclusive a proof of our immortality ? That the
assertion of such a possibility should be met with cautious
reserve, as news too good to be true, and that the phenomena
claiming to have a spiritual origin should be subjected to the
most rigorous examination, would be reasonable and right.
But why desire that the ‘ ‘ good news ” should prove to be
false ?
That the materialist should refuse to admit the possibility
of facts which upset his theories, may perhaps be only natural,
although it might have been supposed that the materialist
would be, of all men, the most eager to obtain, if possible, the
certainty that wife and children, parents, friends, and self,
aims, acquisitions, and aspirations, are not mere temporary
results of chemical aggregation. But by those with whom it
is not “ deemed incredible that God should raise the dead,”
why should it “ be deemed incredible ” that the “ dead,” being
thus “ raised,” and, therefore, being not “ dead ” but living,
should be learning and progressing in some mode of existence
germane to our own, should share in the onward movement of
the time, and should thus at length discover the means of
communicating with those whom they have quitted ?
Is not the present century emphatically an age of extend¬
ing communications ? What are all our scientific discoveries
but the extension of our power of receiving messages from
the sun, the stars, the air, from crystals and gases, from the
various elements and forces around us ? Have not all of these,
has not electricity itself, stood to us in the same relation as
now ever since the formation of our planet ? And yet it is
only now that we are becoming able to receive from them the
intelligible “messages” whose ten our is so rapidly changing
the whole current of our thoughts. What is there, then, so
unnatural, unreasonable, odious, and contemptible, in the
idea that those who have loved us, whom we love and believe
to be living, may, also, be now acquiring the power of sending
us messages, and thus of strengthening and multiplying the
tokens of their existence and proximity which no age nor
people has ever been entirely without ?
Strange as many of the best-attested facts of spirit-com¬
munication may at present appear to outsiders, depend on it,
sir, that, when the time shall have come for writing the
history of this grand advance in the telegraphy of our globe,
the angry repulsion excited by its first announcement will be
rightly judged to have been the strangest thing about it.
160 bis. Avenue d’Eylau, Paris, Anna Blackwell.
January 6, 1873.
SPIKITTTAL NOMENCLATURE.
Sir,—And it came to pass that Faraday died and was
buried (?) that he no more remembered his past experiences,
and that he decomposed and became gas, on which vegetables
feed and thrive, that they, in turn, may feed animals and
men.
In the meantime, however, something which Faraday for¬
merly possessed, but which now he does not possess, passed
into another state or condition, not necessarily another world
or another life, but possibly in the same world and same life,
but another condition of both, and remembers the experience
of Faraday before he (Faraday) died. Understand, please,'
that the physical, decaying, and (so far as the identity of the
* Thus distributed:—In France, 2; Belgium, 3; Holland, 2; Denmark,
1; Russia, 1; Germany, 1; Austria, 3; Bohemia, 1; Spain, 15; Italy, 6;
Greece, !; Egypt, 1; Turkey, 1; Brazil, 2; Uruguay, 1; La Plata, 2 ; Peru,
1; Ghili, 1; Mexico, 1. Among those most widely circulated are—La Eevue
Spirits, Paris, whose yearly issue frequently goes threugh several editions ;
Le Spiritisme, Lyons; Le Messager, Lifege; Die Risgraad, Amsterdam; Das
Licht dee Jenseits, Vienna; Die Spiritisch-Rationalistische Leitschaft, Leipzig;
Revue de Meurer, Tceplitz; El Spiritismo, Seville; Revista Espiritista, Barce¬
lona; Annali dello Spiritismo, Turin; La Salute, Bologna; La Verity Alex¬
andria; La Revue cCOrient, Smyrna; La Revista Espiritista, Monte Video;
L'Ecko d’Outre-tombe, Bahia; II Diario, Rio Janeiro; La Illustration,
Espiritista, Mexico; El Spiritismo, Lima; L’Espiritista, Santiago; &c. There
was a Spiritist Review in Ecuador, but it has just been suppressed by the
priests, who have induced the Government to seize and publicly burn all
Spiritist books and periodicals, and to punish their owners with fines and
imprisonment.
92
THE SPIRITUALIST
Feb. 1, 1873.
man is concerned) useless body takes the name Faraday,
while the part which remembers and thinks is only called the
spirit “ of ” Faraday. Is this reasonable ? Would it not be
more correct to speak and write of the spirit Faraday, and of
the body “ of ” Faraday, but never of the spirit “ of ” Fara¬
day, or anyone else ? Spiritualists, please remember this ;
leave out the “ of ; ” it is worse than waste of ink, time, and
space to write it.
Is it not impossible to prove that spirits will live for ever ?
And would it not be more wise to speak and write of the
“future or spiritual state,” rather than of “immortality ?”
Is not the word “ nature ” the best word whereby to call
the whole phenomena of space, and divide “nature ” into two
great classes of modes of substance or substances ; thus,
material substance and spiritual substance ? This will not
exclude the belief in God as may at first sight appear, but will
only recognise God as an all-present spiritual substance, if
God is anything. The word “ supernatural ” is taken to mean
“ something above nature,” and the definition is neither clear
nor wise. I was once told that it meant “ the superior parts
of nature ; ” but this only implies that the less tangible sub¬
stances are of more use in nature than the more tangible ;
and since they are all superior in their particular use, it would
be unwise to use it in that sense.
Would not the term “ psychic force ” be better replaced by
some such word as 1 psycaura,” to indicate the substance re¬
quired for the manifestations ? T. C. Davies.
215, Brunswick-street, Manchester,
January 16th, 1873.
THE JEALOUSIES OE MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Attention was recently called by one of your corres¬
pondents to the harm done to the cause of Spiritualism by
the jealousies of powerful physical mediums, they being
persons so violently driven by their passions. More than one
instance of harm done, has qome to my knowledge. A captain
in the Queen’s service, who is also an eminent man of science,
began to be interested in Spiritualism, and was introduced
some years ago to the celebrated medium A, who at once
began to explain to the enquirer that another celebrated
medium B, was an impostor. A had never seen B'a manifes¬
tations, which were as genuine as his own. “ Oh,” thought
the captain, “Here is A telling me B’s tricks, and Spiritualists
certify that B is as good a medium as A ; therefore A who tells
me these things is also an impostor, and I will have nothing
further to do with the subject.” Nor has he, from that day
to this. The statements of A were bald untruths, wholly
invented by himself. F.
Jan. 23rd, 1873.  
SPIRITUALISM AND METAPHYSICS.
Sir,—To quote the words of Professor Tyndall, “Whether
it be a consequence of long-continued development, or an en¬
dowment conferred once for all upon man at his creation, we
find him here gifted with a mind curious to know the cause of
things, and surrounded by objects which excite its question¬
ings and raise the desire for an explanation.” Again, he says,
“ After many trials it became evident that man’s capacities
were, so to speak, the complement of nature’s facts, and that,
within certain limits, the secret of the universe was open to
the human understanding.” And, again, “ By science in the
physical world miracles are wrought, while philosophy is for¬
saking its ancient metaphysical channels, and pursuing others
which have been opened or indicated by scientific research.
This must become more and more the case as philosophical
writers become more deeply imbued with the methods of
science, better acquainted with the facts which scientific men
have won, and with the great theories which they have
elaborated.” Now this I hold to be unquestionably true, but
in an article quoted in the Spiritualist from the Mount
Alexander Mail, of Castlemaine, August 27th, 1872, I read
this statement—“What is matter? and what proof is there
that matter exists outside of our own consciousness ? Abso¬
lutely none. There can be absolutely none.”
But if this statement were really, absolutely true, we should
be landed in absolute scepticism, or reduced to a dream, with¬
out any basis for the dream, either external or internal, and
to which logical position Berkeley’s idealism was reduced by
Hume, as we all know. Subsequently, Hegel continued the
logical process, until he left us to mere relations, with nothing
having those relations. And writers have been playing fast
and loose with the argument ever since. Even Mr. Mill will
argue inconsistently for idealism in one place, and for mate¬
rialism in another, and Huxley was equally inconsistent in his
ectnre on Berkeley, delivered at the Royal Institution. Dr.
Carpenter, in reply, in his address at Brighton, falls back on
“ common sense”—a mere expression without any intelligible
meaning, and which he did not attempt to define. This confusion
must continue so long as you deny the “ spiritual,” that is,
the instinct of nature in the intuitive or first principle in the
human mind, and thus the mechanical and experience theories
must prevail.
If Professor Huxley was right in his idealism, what reason
had he to believe that he had an audience of fashionable per¬
sons, permanent and substantial beings, external to his own
ideas ? You cannot eat your cake, and have it all the same,
and go on talking and arguing about it as though it still
existed. Now Spiritualism—fairly, modestly, and patiently
pursued, without hurrying to conclusions for gratification—
may be perfectly consistent with an enlightened materialism;
but neither can be consistent with idealism, because both
imply objectivity and the belief in an external world, and in
other persons beyond the idea, and in beings as independent
as ourselves, whom we put into the witness-box, and cross¬
question as the case may require. It is Spiritualism that will
best exhibit the nature and innate powers of the human mind,
and enable us to refute the superficial philosophy of the
metaphysician on the one hand, and the gross materialistic
theories of the physiologist on the other, and lead us on in the
true path towards the real source of life, and its true laws in
regard to development of mind and instinct. But what the
fundamental law and principle is we can never know. If we
can only read the facts of nature as they are, and interpret
them in their true nature, sequences, and relations, it is all we
need, or need care for. Any further knowledge as to “the
absolute” would be quite useless, even if by possibility it could
be arrived at and be within the sphere of our powers of com¬
prehension.
If it were absolutely true that we can have no proof of
external objects, of the distance of the sun and moon and
stars, of the existence of friends and relatives, and that the
“be all and end all” was purely ideal—all, all “of such stuff
as dreams are made of,” mere thought, and really nothing to
think about—then, indeed, would the cause of philosophy be
hopeless. But what is the fact ? That the idealist cannot
move one step in his argument without using terms that
imply the existence of the very matter he is arguing against.
The truth is, that we do obtain Tcnoioledge, and are perfectly
certain that we do obtain it, through the senses, and by
means, and modes, and channels that are understood by all,
and in which we have the proof of certain powers of the mind
of an intuitional character, that serve us well, and enable us
to perceive, through or by the sense impression and brain
response, the external matter in question. Whether you
regard this as direct, or through sight or perception, or as
visionary and indirect, it is equally knowledge, and practically
and serviceably the same, just as the indirect reflection in
the glass gives us equally exact knowledge as in the direct
perception of the matters themselves. Hence, to say that
“the knowledge is obtained ” is the proof that the mind pos¬
sesses “ spiritual,” or intuitional and reliable powers, affording
us the knowledge of the external world, and sufficing for all
the requirements of life in our inter-relations with the external
world, is what Professor Tyndall expresses as “ the comple¬
ment of nature’s facts.” H. G. Atkinson,
Hotel Royal, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
MEN AND WOMEN.
Sir,—Having quoted my remarks on your extract from Mr.
White’s Swedenborg, you will not perhaps object to my saying
a few words on the controversy which those remarks have
awakened. In the first place, I hope those women who read
this letter of mine will forgive me for presuming to act as
their champion, few as my qualifications are ; in the second
place, I hope you, sir, will forgive me for unwittingly attri¬
buting a bias to you in this question which is not yours. And
then to the point. I think that the speculations of Sweden¬
borg and his commentator err for this reason—that they
assume sex to exist in mental as well as in bodily character¬
istics. Now the processes of intellect are alike, whether fol¬
lowed by men or by women: a woman in solving a geometrical
problem must (and can) follow the same mathematical rules as
those which guide a man to its solution. And, as in mathematics,
so with every branch of science; whilst in art the same prin¬
ciple holds good. Although, as our opponents are justified in
saying, no woman artist has reached the eminence of Shake¬
speare, Raphael, Michael Angelo, or Beethoven, yet such
Feb. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
genius as theirs is quite exceptional even amongst men, -and
amongst mediocre artists women have maintained an equal
rank with men. The originality of women has failed to make
so great a stir in the world because there have been calls upon
their attention which no man has ever had to answer. Yet,
taking examples from our own age, the originality of Char¬
lotte Bronte, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and George Eliot,
has been surpassed by no male writers amongst their contem¬
poraries. I do not fear for the future of women, now.
Natural causes are at work which will quickly afford them
the opportunities they need for displaying their capabilities.
The surplus of women in our population is now so large that
men must be displaced from some of their old preserves if
single women are to be able to earn their own subsistence.
Give them the chance of fitting themselves for any of the
occupations to which their strength is sufficient, and there is
no doubt they can hold their own. Teachers, doctors,
preachers, lawyers—these are the professions for which femi¬
nine strength is most equal : it is not mental but bodily dis¬
qualifications which bar them from hard manual labour.
After all, it is in vain theorising and arguing on these
matters. Wherever men and women have been brought into
direct competition, women have' done so well that theory
cannot withstand facts. And all I would ask for women is
this :—That the theories of women-despisers be not taken for
substantiated facts, until women have had a fair chance of
disproving them. George Fraser.
8, Middleton-road, Camden-road, N.
Sir,—Mr. White speaks of women as deriving ideas from
men, and clustering round the intellect of men as the ivy sur¬
rounds the oak. I am not prepared to admit or deny his as¬
sertions, in which there is much force, but even if he be right
in his arguments, his picture appears to be one-sided. He
might justly describe the intellect of man, as clustering like
ivy round the love of women, in which case the advocates of
“men’s rights’’ will have to encounter all the difficulties
which beset fancy instead of fact. This view of the case
should be introduced to bring his ideas to a proper balance.
To my mind men and women are not legitimately compar¬
able, when the question of superiority is at issue, any more
than the question “ Is a pear superior to an apple ?” affords
ground for discussion by sensible people. As you have
pointed out, the question of the superiority of men or women
has nothing to do with the question whether persons suffering
under natural disabilities shall be still further pressed down
by semi-savage laws. X.
MR. GUPPY’S EXPERIMENTS.
Sir,—To think that my having the gout in 1871 should help
to prove Spiritualism in 1873 ! I went one day and paid
Pulvermacher 50s. for a galvanic belt. I wore it for three
months, got well, and left it off.
On Saturday, 18th January, several friends called (I am a
bachelor at present, wife at Crystal Palace), among them
Williams, the medium. I asked him to stay, as I wanted to
try something. After various trials the spirit directed us to
hold each an end of .the chain in opposite hands—he one end
with about three inches of chain in the right, and I the other
in the left. Instantly up went the little table a foot, as
though it were a feather, and danced about in the air. Williams
then had to go and give a seance in Lamb’s Conduit-street.
On Sunday, 19th, young J. C. came, a powerful medium,
but not fully developed, and in indifferent health. I tried the
galvanic belt with him, but though he felt the effect it did
not act as in the case with Williams—in fact the spirit said,
“ Take it away.”
January 19th, Williams and J. C. dropped in ; I made
J. C. the audience, and proceeded to try again with Williams
at the small table. Soon it rapped out, “ Let J. C. come to
table.” Then “ Go to large table.”
As soon as we got settled at the large table all was life, the
table floated feather light two feet: then blue lights streamed
from different parts of the chain. Then “ Katie ” became
visible to J. C., and talked, and finally wished us “ Good-night.”
Then J. C. asked for the spirit D., who appeared in one
corner of the room. This is a very violent spirit, who if not
under control, would soon make mincemeat of all the furniture
of a room ; he is always asking for darkness. Mr. Williams
will long remember one of his freaks. First I held a hand of
each (Williams’s and J. C.), and a roasted apple was placed on
the table. I put it aside on the small table, five feet away
from the table we sat at. Next the small table was placed on
the large one, and Williams cried for a light, which revealed
the small table with the paper on it, in which the apple was
roasted, but the apple itself formed a poultice which com¬
pletely blocked up Williams’s left eye.
Now to the summary. There is no mistake as to the im¬
mense increase of power by using the galvanic band. We
three saw the lights continually issuing from it, six or seven
at a time, and floating from one to five feet from the chain
and disappearing. I have seen tables floated by spirit power
a hundred times, but generally it appeared to be by a great
effort unless extraordinary power was present; but here the
table floated up as lively as a bladder pressed under water,
and remained floating two feet above the floor. The signs
are unmistakable. The belt being dipped in acidulated
(vinegar) water and wiped with a towel, each party holds
three inches in opposite hands across the table, keeping the
hand an inch off the table, and the other hand flat on the
table. Very speedily an electric shooting is felt in the hand
and arm, holding the chain. Furthermore it is evident that
an electric shock is transmitted through both bodies, which it
is very possible may be conducive to health.
January 22nd.—Another seance last evening. I shall re¬
count only salient points. Vocal conversation with Mr. D,
the spirit. “Did you hear my article read?” “Yes!”
“ Have you any remarks to make ? ” “ Yes.’’ So I got paper
and pencil, and in pitch darkness wrote the following from
spirit dictation, using the tips of my fingers as points of com¬
mencement of each line :—
“ You want to know how to hold the belt properly. Let
one person sit with his back to the north, holding the chain in
his left hand. Let another person sit with his back to the
east, holding the chain in his right hand, his other hand on
the table ; both the persons who bold the chain to be mediums,
if possible, and should not be near to any person they have
an antipathy to. The chain had better be dipped in diluted
sulphuric acid.”
Here an interruption took place. Returning to the table
I said, “ Mr. D., would not another galvanic chain add to the
effect?” “ Of course it would.” “ Well, then, I will get an¬
other chain.” “ No, don’t! ” “ Why not ? ” “ Do you want
the house carried away ? ” “ Not exactly that, but it does
not follow that a giant’s strength should be misapplied.”
“ That is true, but we cannot always control the power.”
Minor events of the seance were that Mr. D., the spirit, was
very severe upon Mr. —, and gave him a thump on the head
with a table, and otherwise frightened him.
Now Mr. — is a distinguished Oxford man, who has taken
high honours, and I have remarked that his reasoning powers
are so excessively fine, that he cannot come to a conclusion on
any subject, which appears to annoy Mr. D. In fact, Mr. D.,
the spirit, frightened him out of the room at last.
Turning over all these things in my mind, a ray of thought
suddenly solved all the difficulty, and I propose the pro¬
blem for the consideration of our stars of science :—
“ As the angle of reflection is exactly equal to the angle of
incidence, so the amount of belief of a highly-educated Oxford
man is capable of, is exactly equal to the amount of money he
can get by the belief.”
And now, Mr. Editor, for a bit of philosophy. “ Objective
or subjective ? ”—that is the question of the day in Church,
State, and Spiritualism. Mr. Gladstone is subjective as re¬
gards the House of Commons, because he is only the mouth¬
piece of the majority, but he is objective as regards the House
of Lords, whose interests are not in all cases those of the
nation as represented in the Lower House. A State Church
establishment is objective to those who do not coincide with
it, and the paying for it without value received is only one,
and in many respects the least objectionable of its incon¬
veniences.
Now is the spirit D. objective or subjective? Most cer¬
tainly he never appeared in my house till J. C. came, ergo—
to me he is objective. To Williams the medium he is de¬
cidedly objective, for a subjective spirit of Williams would
not dab a roasted apple in his eye. To my Oxford friend he is
decidedly objective, as witness the bump on his head produced
by Mr. D. (Sp.) striking him ; besides, his other demeanour
to my Oxford friend shows great want of respect for the
“ venerable institution ” he represents. He held a very
heavy Terra Gotta vase over his head, and if he had let it
drop Oxford would have been deprived of one of her brightest
stars. A subjective psychic force would not do that.
He is objective to J. C., the medium, for he boxed his ears
and side of the face with the speaking tube for laughing.
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1873.
Besides, once in the seance J. 0. called out, in evident terror,
“ Light! Strike directly !” “ Why?” said I. “ Strike a light
directly ; he has hold of your camera stand.” Now this cast-
iron camera stand weighs fully 1 cwt., and, with its tripod legs,
would form an instrument of offence of the most awful de¬
scription ; and I had a sample of what he could do, for I only
quitted the room for five minutes just before the seance closed,
and he took the opportunity of turning over every article of
furniture, i.e., sofa, two tables, and nine chairs, without, how¬
ever, hurting any one. Samson was a very powerful medium,
as proved by his getting loose from the ropes and withys, and
he killed 1,000 men with the jaw-bone of an ass, but if Mr. D.
(spirit) could be induced to enter the navy, and board an
enemy’s ship with a cast-iron camera stand, there would not
be a man left alive in five minutes.
Talking of Samson brings me to a letter I have received
from the National Education Union, and a discourse from
Bishop Magee ; and I may as well answer both through you.
Question—Beligious instruction in National Schools, reading
the Bible, &c., &c.
Argument:—At first appears objectionable, for the .Roman
Catholic teacher would teach that all the Protestant boys
would be everlastingly burnt in hell flames ; and the Pro¬
testant teacher would teach that the Pope was a humbug, and
all his agents not less humbugs than himself; and the boys,
having such ideas put in their heads before their reasoning
powers are sufficiently developed, would set-to fighting to
settle the question, and the school would become an area of
hatred and all other evil passions. On the other hand, the
whole of the Bible which is worth reading is nothing but a
history of Spiritual manifestations.
To settle the matter between the National Education Union
and the Birmingham League, I propose,—
“ That a portion of the Bible be read to all the babies
daily. That immediately following such reading, the babies
all sit down and put their hands on tables and hold a seance,
whereat the spirits will explain the true meaning of what has
been read. ”
If the House of Commons don’t choose to adopt that plan,
it will be all the same, for the babies will hear about
Spiritualism and sit at tables at home, and it will only come
to what a very pretty Irishwoman told me. Says she,—“ My
husband promised (while he was courting) to leave off smoking.
After we were married he certainly, in a measure, kept his
word, but he returned very late from his club, and smelt very
strong of tobacco. So 1 bought a very handsome meerschaum,
and some Turkish tobacco, and said to him, ‘ My dear, if you
must smoke, you had bettef smoke at home than stay so late
at the club.’ ”
The long and the short of it is, Mr. Editor, we are enlisting
the aid of science in the navy, and in the army, and in
travelling, and in sanitary measures, and we must—will and
shall—so apply science that paankind shall no longer “ bark
at and bite ” one another on the subject of religion.
Samuel Guppy.
[Under normal conditions, while two persons are holding the opposite
ends of a galvanic chain, with their free hands upon a table, no electrical
current at all will pass, there not being sufficient potency in the current
from a chain of the description mentioned, to overcome the resistance
offered by a piece of wood only one-eighth of an inch thick; much less
would it have power to pass through a table. In one experiment also, Mr.
Guppy had no results. The experiments should be repeated many times,
and a galvanometer should be placed in circuit to indicate what is really
taking place, in order to make sure that John King did not mischievously
give an unusually good “ hoist ” to the table in the ordinary way. The
pranks of John King and the very lively spirit D. have to be taken into
consideration. Mr. Guppy had better buy another chain, without much
fear of his house being carried away; indeed, if it were carried away, and
seen sailing over London with Mr. Guppy smoking placidly on the verandah,
while making a novel trip in this way to the south of France for the winter,
the event would be a glorious one for Spiritualism, and Mr. Guppy might
return to England the greatest Aladdin of modem times. Let him get
another chain by all means, and defy “ the spirit D.” to do his worst.—Ed.]
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—I have observed with pleasure your frequent allusions
to the advantages which would accrue if an international
institution were established for the study and advancement of
psychological science, and venture to urge those who are
favourable to such a work, to take action without delay. If
such an institution were established, I would suggest a line
of action which would doubtlessly aid the cause of Spiritualism,
and, to a considerable extent, remove the popular misappre¬
hension which exists on the subject of spiritual phenomena.
The idea in my mind is :—that “ a committee for practical
investigation,” consisting of members of both sexes, be elected
by the members of such institution annually, or for more ex¬
tended periods, as may be found advisable. The council
should be divided into committees, each committee to con¬
sist of say five members, and to confine its attention to the
phenomena of Spiritualism. The services of media, through
whom the manifestations are obtained, to be procured, and
compensation made to them out of the funds of the insti¬
tution.
As an illustration of the foregoing idea, let me suppose that
an acknowledged medium could be induced to accept service,
at his or her own home, under one of the committees, the
members of which should meet and act in accordance with
the directions of the spirits manifesting. Frequent and
kindly meetings with the medium would soon render the
circle harmonious and happy, whilst the careful observation
and recording of each sitting would, I feel sure, result in not
only confirming the spiritual origin of the phenomena, but
also throw light upon the laws which govern the manifes¬
tations.
The above plan, if carried out, would, I consider, be of far
more importance, from a scientific point of view, than that of
constantly admitting strangers or antagonistic persons to the
seances of first class media. The evidence obtained by such a
plan as proposed, would be less liable to be controverted than
in those instances where evidence is obtained as the result of
a single or limited number of sittings ; and would go far to
establish a basis from which philosophical conclusions might
be drawn, and a more complete understanding of Spiritualism
eventually obtained.
I trust that those interested in this interesting study of
psychology, may soon put their shoulders to the wheel, and
show the outsiders that we are earnest workers.
Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino Road, Dalston, London, E.,
23rd January, 1873.
THE DEATH OF THE BODY.
Sir,—The following message of singularly pathetic and
pqetic beauty was received by a private circle at Southampton.
Surely it is calculated to console those who shudder at the
death change.
Life like a Burden I laid down ;
Death, whom I feared, without a frown
Bade me come on and gave a crown.
3, Essex-court, Temple. H. M. Dunphy.
25th Jan.
Mr. Peebles in Australia.—M. J. M. Peebles has sent
us a Melbourne daily paper, The Age, dated November 12th,
1872, containing a long report of a lecture on Spiritualism,
which he delivered on November 11th, in the Temperance
Hall, Russell-street, Melbourne. In the course of his remarks,
Mr. Peebles is reported to have described the method of
spiritual control, and to have spoken of a young man named
Atkins, whom he psychologically influenced. In this biological
condition he made him speak by will-power the speech that
he (Mr. Peebles) had conceived in his own brain. It was his
own spirit that thus controlled the young man. “ If I died,” said
Mr. Peebles, “ I should approach him as a spirit, throw my
will-power upon him, and entrance him. The principle is all
the same.” He said that Spiritualism was synonymous with
the spiritual marvels and precepts of Jesus, and that every
argument brought to bear against present spiritual manifesta¬
tions was an atheistical javelin hurled at the temple of
Christianity itself. The influence of Spiritualism tended to
lengthen the chain of friendship, purify the social affections,
crush human creeds, and break down the barriers of sectarian
bigotry. Mr. Peebles also said that bigotry had drenched the
earth in blood; it had kindled the fires of Smithfield; it
banished Anne Lee; it tortured witches and burned quakers.
•Give sectarian bigots the power, and they would again re¬
enact the bloody scenes of the Inquisition. He closed by
saying :—“ Galileo for a long time stood alone. Wilberforce
toiled thirty years before the English Parliament declared the
slave trade piracy; and Columbus laboured seventeen years
to procure the ships that discovered the new world. So you
Spiritualists shall ultimately reap the golden harvests of your
sowing. Riding as you do in God’s chariot of truth, you can
but ride to victory. Form a solid phalanx, then. Live calm,
manly, and noble lives. Return blessing for cursing. Love
your enemies, and cherish only kindness towards your slan¬
derers. Then, when the death angel comes, you shall hear
voices from heaven saying, ‘Well done, good and faithful
servants, enter ye into the beautiful lands of immortality.' ”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
Feb. 1, 1873.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
The fifth half-yearly general meeting of this association
was held on January 13th, Mr. Thomas Wilks, the President,
in the chair. The secretary read the report of the Council
and balance sheet for the half-year ending 31st December,
1872. It appeared that the financial condition of the associa¬
tion is in a satisfactory condition, the increase in the receipts,
as compared with the previous half-year, being £7 10s. 10d.,
while the increase in the expenditure was only £1 13s. 4d.
The number of members at present on the books is thirty-five
as against twenty-eight on 30th June last. The report went
on to analyse the results of the twenty-six seances held on
consecutive Thursday evenings, the average attendance at
which was fourteen. Reference was made, to the impartial
conduct on the part of the editor of the Hackney and Kinys-
land Gazette and Shoreditch Telegraph in giving insertion to
eleven letters on Spiritualism during the past half-year.
During the current half-year the Council intend adding a
number of valuable standard works on Spiritualism to the
library, and will be glad to receive the aid of those interested
in the furtherance of the cause of spiritual investigation. The
following officers were then re-elected for the current half-
year, viz.:—Mr. Thomas Wilks, President; Mrs. A. Corner,
Mr. George Blyton, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mr. Jos. Stephens,
Mr. E. J. Wilson, members of the Council; and Mr. Thomas
Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer. In the course of the evening,
the receipt of two donations was reported: the first from
Mr. R. H., F.G.S., of £1, and the second from Miss Florence
E. Cook, of £5.
DR. GULLY’S ADVOCACY OF SPIRITUALISM.
Most readers of Spiritual periodical literature will, no
doubt, remember the celebrated article, “ Stranger than Fic¬
tion,” which appeared in the Cornhill Magazine, in 1860. It
was written by Mr. Bell, a well-known litterateur, who was
introduced to the Cornhill readers by the editor, Mr. Thack¬
eray, with the following foot-note :—“As editor of this maga¬
zine, I can vouch for the good faith and honourable character
of out correspondent, a friend of twenty-five years’ standing.”
This article, which gave a description of what the writer
and three others saw at a seance at the private residence of
Mrs. Milner Gibson, with Mr. Home as medium, was
cautiously introduced. Of scepticism, the author said—
“ Nothing is believed at first; and this habitual resistance to
novelties might be applauded as a sound instinct, if it did not
sometimes obstruct the progress of knowledge.”
The article, however, though full of facts, and admirably
reasoned, met with a storm of disapprobation from all the
press, and though, doubtless, it laid the foundation of belief
of many who are now confirmed Spiritualists, Thackeray’s
temerity in permitting the article to appear nearly cost him
his situation and the destruction of the magazine.
The Star newspaper opened its columns about this time for
a discussion of Spiritualism, but it is said the editor became
overwhelmed with letters, upwards of 1,300 within a week or
two, and he was obliged to close his pages to the subject.
One letter, however, found a place in the Star, which was
written by Dr. Gully, who for the past thirty years has held
an enviable position in the scientific world.
He was one of the four who were present at that seance so
graphically described by Mr. Bell, Mr. Robert Chambers being
another. Without fear of the consequences, he boldly stood
up for the truth, and endorsed the CornhilVs statements in a
long and able letter, in the closing part of which Dr. Gully
says :—
“ Meantime, the facts must be patiently and honestly accu¬
mulated, and enthusiasm must be banished from the minds of
the enquirers. . . . And, as regards the denials, and abuses,
and jests of the non-enquirers, let it be remembered that scur¬
rility and laughter never discovered or disproved anything
whatever in the world’s history. . . . Respecting the purely
physical phenomena, it may he that we are on the verge of
discovering some physical force hitherto undreamt of; who
shall say that we know all the powers of Nature ?
“ Here, too, dispassionate enquiry must go on, regardless of
the noise outside ; regardless, too, of the ignorant and mali¬
cious prejudice which would blast the reputation of those who
inquire in a direction opposite to that of prejudice.
“ Enquirers, unlike routine people, must be prepared to
rough it among their fellow-creatures.
“ And I suppose that I, having asserted that I have five
senses, as yet unimpaired, and for having testified to what
the majority disbelieve, shall come in for my share of pity or
abuse. Let it be so, if it helps on a truthful search.”
These are very noble sentiments, and claim from every
lover of truth a hearty ‘ ‘ Amen.”
Dr. Gully not only came in for his share of “pity and
abuse,” but was made to suffer in purse as well, for the writing
of that letter cost him £1,400, to which extent his professional
practice suffered in the year following its publicity. Dr.
Gully, however, may be congratulated on his retirement,
while yet in vigorous health, from his professional labours.
He has promised, from time to time, to give the readers of
this journal the benefit of his well-matured thoughts on Spi¬
ritualism, in which he is an earnest believer, and we had the
pleasure of publishing one of his articles in the last number.
The Barrow, Furness, and North- Western Daily Times
has recently been publishing correspondence on the subject of
Spiritualism, which in the neighbourhood of Barrow seems to
be retarded in its progress chiefly by the religious difficulty.
Very many provincial newspapers have published articles on
Spiritualism within the last six weeks, and we regret that we
have not room for extracts.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism: deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, 'Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Gr. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq, M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
•‘George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.’’
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
*• 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the. manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications..
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Ypur committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended oyer the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about flee inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved/ow times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 187k
I; ' HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the, reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the^hest way for enquirers:to begin. At
the same time, as nTo/fnlly developed, medium is present among
those who have never,, obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. 'Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking, manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting,pya^family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thiis''started' without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics 'on this ' point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to”'save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did,-form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
* 1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the cifcle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica-
1 tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such'a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom.of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
, 7. When motions of the table or_sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let .one person only speak,-.and talk to the table as to an
intelligeht being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, ‘.‘If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to'work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the bedt manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask,-“Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. * A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
= their patronage, they can be ■ supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit” and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 I Unrivalled Black Doe . 110
Tweed Suit ...    £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
durabifity of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harris, MD.
f Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C. ~'
The, rise and progress of spiritualism
in England, by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the;
Spiritualist reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
had at' one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler
, engraved from a Photograph by Jambs Partridge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: .being the
Autobiography of Williaiii Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon. I
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871, and the “ Dark Blue " Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very-faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of -English domestic" history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late'Vicar of Seaton And Beer, that Ratten¬
bury wrote the autobiography, which,has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr) Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall havp much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the folldwihg:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, LadsbTauhton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sif -Uharles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H.lElphinstone,. Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlow,
Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Ef'ederick Bathurst, Lady Rolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Ishtimt'the Hon. Mark Rolle, J. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S. Morley, Esq.,jy[ jP., Dr. John Brown (“Rab and His
Friends.”), Dante G. Rossetti, Esq., John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“ Graphic ”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns', W. D. Christie, Esq., O.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vibar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Algernon C. Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq.,
(Earthly Paradise), F. MadoxlBrown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan
Esq., M:P., Jos. Aspinwall, Beq:, &e., &c."
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. Ge&rge'-JTrftser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist”:—
£ s. d.
Charles Blackbum^Esq.    15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”        10' 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq  5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq        5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S. ... ... ...     5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox   ;   ... ■  5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool) ... ... ... ■...   5 0 0
Sir Charles-Isham, Bart.  ... ... ;  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq....      ... 5 0 0
J. O. Luxmoore, Esq     ... ... 5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— . ' £ s. d.
Miss Ponder    1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder ...        ... 1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd ...   ...    ... ... ... 1 0 0
“Longfellow’’-  ‘ ...   ... ... 10 0’
Mr. Withall  ..; ... 1   ... 1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird   $ ...   1. ... 10 0
.Mr. George Dawson ...    ... 10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers       -10 0
Mr. Rogers ... ...   .*   ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald ... ...   10 0
Mrs. Gunyon..; ... ...     10 0
  8 0 0
“Bitterness’ ... ...- ... ..'."T:.   4 4 0
“A Friend,” Temple ..l1"*?., ...   3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq.»   ... ... ...    ... 3 3 0
Richard Beamish,' Esq.-; F.'KT.S. ...   ...3 3 0
James Wason, Esq. **... 5... ...       '...-  3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness        :..   2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston ...^     ,   2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq.’'^-..., irT... ...    ... ...' 2 0 0
John Beattie, Esq. ... ... :.. ...'   2 0 0
G. Thomson, Esq., MD  ...   1 0 0
Mrs.' Robert Campbell ... ... - ...’   ...' ... 10 0
“A Friend,”Manchester  ,   ... ... ... 1 1 0
Benjamin Coleman, Esq   ... ... ... ... ... ...1 1 0
E. Musgrave, Esq   ...    ... ..." 1 1 0
“v.”  .:.    i i o
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)      ... ... 1 0 -0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S. ...   ...   ...   ... 1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury ^ ... ... ■...   ..; ‘.1 0 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq." ...    ... ... 10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  ... :.. 10 Q
Miss J. H. Douglas   ...    ... ... 1 0 6
“AFriend”   ... • ..;     ... ... ... 1-0 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, MB. ..-. .......      1.0 0
Mrs. Hennings    ... ...   ... ... ... 1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq  ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 10 0
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account ..: ... 0 8_ 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman. chambers, Porfman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; ortoEnmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood,-‘'S.E.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
