Registered as a Newspaper.
0$ f^YdfEO^OGclCS^
©Ib<si Jlfinspaptir armmitEr toiilj Sgiritealism in mat §niaiK.
/THE “ SPIRITUALIST ’’ is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C, PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, RusselLstreet, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. ; 9, Montgomery-place, and xS, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 228.—(VOL.x—No. 10 LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 5, 1877.
foments*
More about Indian Deyil-Worship *  ... ... 1
Spiritualism in Liverpool   ... 2
Spiritualism from a Swedenborgian Point of View   2
Is Spiritualism or Psychology a Science?     3
The Pious'Witches of'Willelsheim      ... 4
Spiritualism in the Last Century  4
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By William Newton, F.B.G.S. ... 5
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Special Meeting
of the Council ...         5
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade ‘by a Conservative Govern¬
ment    ,t,       6
The Princess Louise and Dr. Slade’s Mediumship  7
My Second Soul. By Florence Marryatt. (Poetry.)   7
The Limitation of Spiritualistic Legal Expenses ...   7
The Parting Of the Years  t     ...   7
The Rev. H. B. Haweis on Spiritualism  8
The White Lady of Berlin ...       8
Dr. Slade’s Mediumship:—Was it a Spirit ?—Light Wanted 8
Correspondence:—An American Opinion about Spiritualism
in England—The Philosophy of Swedenborg applied to
Modern Spiritualistic Manifestations — Experiences
with Dr. Monck—Is it True?—Lectures in the British
Museum—The Nature of Things   ... 8
Experiments with Dr. Slade. By George King ...  10
The National Association of Spiritualists  '. 11
Spiritual Periodicals...     ...   11
Poetry:—The Death of Goody Nurse. By Bose Terry
Cooke—Lines by Milton in His Old Age 12
Answers to Correspondents  ,...12
Paragraphs :— Conference of Spiritualists, 3 ; Florence
Cook, 3; Lord Amberley on Spiritualism, 3; The British
Museum, 3; Spiritualism in America, 4; Middlesex
Sessions, 4; A Premonition, 4; Dr. Slade’s Appeal, 6 ;
Professor Lankester’sWalrus,.7; Dr. Forbes Winslow,
7; The Davenport Brothers in Australia, 10; Professor
Denton in England, 11; The Invisible    11
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
xpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
. “ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to he addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the;first post on the previous Wedtesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor..
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
animal subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free • voluntary contributions. Developing eircles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
H. E. FBANCES, Hon. Sec.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING BOOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Boom, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-bnildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCKOFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda fob January, 1877.
Wednesday, Zrd.—Soiree at 38, Great Bussell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 4th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 5th.—House and Offices Committee, at G.30 p.m.
„ Conference Committee, at 7 p.m. )
’ Soiree Committee, at 7 p.m. j
, ,, Trance Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. J. J. Morse,
medium. Tickets, Is. each.
Tuesday, 9th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p,m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m.
Thursday, llth.—Mr, Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.80 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 12th.—Experimental Research Committee, at G.30
p.m.
Monday, 15th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Friday, V)th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 25t/i.—Conference Committee, at 6 p.m. )
,, 1 Soiree Committee at 6 p.m, j
„ Seance Committee at 7 p.m.
The present series of Mr. Blackburn’s Seances being closed
on the llth of this month, a course of private Seances will be
arranged for Members only, if a sufficient number should send
in their names to the Secretary. It is desirable that each
Member subscribe for a course of not less than three Seanoes.
Tickets, 2s. 6d. each.
PRIZE ESSAYS OP THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10; for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should he open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and. further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturahst and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under.the nom deplume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. l^d., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and 9th of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
hut essays on kindred subjects will also be received:—
1. TheBest Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religious Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respeotfullv announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to annouce that he will deliver, in January, a series of
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room.
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing Jan. 12th.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to he taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientifle Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE IT.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat ■ its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answered.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,'49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. Gd. the course.
A COMMITTEE OF LADIES have much
pleasure in announcing that they have made arrange¬
ments for
A BALL,
To be held at Mrs. Burke’s Residence,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE,
On Tuesday Evening, January 9th, 1877,
For the Amusement and Entertainment of the younger
Spiritualists.
The tickets will he 5s. each, including supper. Dancing to
commence at half-past eight o’clock.
Tickets can be obtained at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford-
place, Russell-square; Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughborough-
road North, Brixton; Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-
street; Mr. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and of
Mrs. Maltby, 41, Marylebone-road, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
.HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary &. Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening, in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindreu
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association,-and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 5, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President,
Alexander Calder, Esq., l, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
iOoleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Kltz-Gerald, MrS.,19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougal 1,21, Green.street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Mltchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Isllngton.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 32, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond HUL
Binney, F, A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hiU.
Urosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 0, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 0, Loughborough-road, North Brixton.
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys,!!. T., 3,West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Piaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Airs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N ,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park.'Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. VY.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, Ht. 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr, H. Cook. I Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
IBs Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia. ,
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General,Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Gwen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 98,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, .Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris,
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
JVI. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54,Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W,
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Nowlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blytou. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SpgiedadtEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
lienor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nook.
Trustees.—Mx. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitohman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
j 3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpldn, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will he illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two yare by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c, will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE STANCE for
(Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usnal, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to he addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps,
At home from 12 to 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Hoaord,
Paris.
R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their owa
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-sireet, Bedford-square,
London, W.O.
RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
GuUfiford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald, '
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. ALDRIDGE (Healing Medium) has
been very unsuccessful in Business this last 3 years,
and failed about 6 months ago—since that time he has tried to
obtain employment but could not, which has rendered himself
and family quite destitute. He is desirous of Emigrating to
Australia by the Assisted Passage, which will :cost about £25,
with Outfit and Clothing necessary for the voyage, which he
hopes to raise by Subscription. The next Ship sails about the
middle of January. Cast-off Clothing will be very acceptable,
there being three young children.
7, Alien-road, Stoke Newington, N. 12th Dec., 1876.
The particulars of this case are known to Mr. J. Wilks of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. O. Burke
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondh par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &a. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Ruesell-street, London, W.C,
3|#pii[V ul % of % Jbittntfj anft Jtl^s of ^pii[iitmftatn.
VoLujviE Te^. Dumber Oj^e.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 6th, 1877.
MORE ABOUT INDIAN DEVIL-WORSHIP.
Some months ago the Spiritualist contained a reprint of a
paper read by Mr. M. J. Walhouse, before the Anthropolo¬
gical Institute, upon the belief in ghosts and spirits preva¬
lent in western India ; perhaps it may not he uninteresting
to supplement that account with some authentic details of
similar beliefs current in the extreme south of the Indian
peninsula. The Eev. Samuel Mateer, F.L.S., of the Lon¬
don Missionary Society, published in 1871, a readable and
excellent work, entitled The Land of Charity^ a Descriptive
Account of Travancore and its People. Two chapters therein
are devoted to u Devil-worship,” from which a few charac¬
teristic passages are selected. “ Devil-dancing ” prevails
just as widely in Travancore as higher upon the coast of
Canava, and several popular demons are described in addi¬
tion to those enumerated in the paper above referred to.
“Kutti Sattan ”—“Little Sattan”—is a familiar spirit
frequently invoked. The name is almost the same as the
Hebrew word Satan, hut there does not appear to be any
philological connection between the two. If invoked, Sattan
enables his devotees to effect whatever they desire, and to
take revenge on their enemies by various spiteful means—
such as throwing stones on their houses, breaking their
doors, and putting dirt and mud into their food. “ I have
heard,” says Mr. Mateer, “ many ridiculous and absurd tales
of the tricks ascribed to Sattan, and have been unable to
persuade even intelligent Hindoos that these must have
been accidental or managed by human agency. On one
occasion stones and earth were thrown on the roof of a
catechist’s house while several of his friends were on the
watch, and they were unable to detect any human agency.
In a town called Puthukadei stones are continually said to
be falling down on a house through the tricks of Safttan.
There is now in connection with the Travancore Mission an
excellent old Christian, eminent as a native physician, and
who had been a professional exorcist, magician, and devil-
priest. He had been for twelve years a worshipper of
Sattan, in whose honour he had built two temples in which
he performed daily rites and offered sacrifices. Doctor
Krishnan, as he was called, stated, and I believe really
imagined, that he had often seen this demon in human form,
though only about two and a half feet high, with two tusks,
like an elephant’s, covered with hair like a cow, and with a
sling and stones in his hand.” Sattan evidently belongs to
that class of spirits, or elementaries, as the occultists have
it, called Polter-geists in Germany, and akin to those who
cause all sorts of noises and disturbances in houses. It is
curious how in all countries they rejoice in throwing stones
and earth upon roofs. An instance is mentioned in the
paper already referred to, and the writer of some remarkable
papers in Blackroood's Magazine, from which extracts were
given in the Spiritualist some months ago, entitled “ Con¬
versations in a Studio,” whilst fully admitting the reality
not only of Spiritualism, but also of art magic, relates an
instance happening to himself, in which sticks and stones
were showered down in open daylight by no visible or pos¬
sible human agency.
Mr. Mateer goes on to relate that the spirits of wicked
men, and those who have met with violent deaths are sup¬
posed to become demons, and are worshipped after death,
and not only such, but the spirit of girls who die before
marriage are held to become restless and malignant, and
are propitiated by their mothers. A catechist asked a number
of women if they did not perform worship to the devil Kanni
(a virgin). They replied, “ Yes.” “ Do you not,” said he,
when you get ill, offer milk, fruit, and cakes to Kanni for
recovery ?” “We do,” said they. “Then are not these virgin-
demons your own unmarried daughters who are dead.” They
admitted that it was so. “ Then,” said the catechist, “ is
it not silly and degrading to bow down before your own
children who were subject to you and afraid of you ; and,
even when alive could not help you? Can such children
have power over your lives now they are dead.”
The following is an authentic instance of-the worship of
departed spirits :—Yalluvan and his wife were bigoted
heathens and devil-dancers; so was his mother-in-law; so
that there were three in that one family. Yalluvan made
annual offering to the extent of 200 fanams, and for the
purpose he would buy a fat red goat, fowls, cocoa-nuts,
plantains, rice, and various perfumes, and garlands of
flowers, and on a Friday afternoon would cut open the
cocoa-nuts, and set them in order with plantains and
flowers before his god. In the meantime his friends would
boil two large potfuls of rice and another of water, and
throw in the perfumes. Tom-toms would then be beaten,
and the women utter shrill cries. Then Yalluvan would
leap forward and dance, crying he was inspired by the
demon. He would take handfuls of the scum on the
boiling water and put on his head, and then, taking a
bunch of flowers from before the god, would dip it in the
boiling water and shake it over his head, so that the scalding
water ran down face and body. The persons present would
then tell him their wants, and seek his miraculous aid. At
one time Yalluvan decided that his mother who had died
long previously had become a mischievous demon, and must
be propitiated. So they bought a fine cloth, and put it in
the apartment she had occupied, with cakes, plantains, betel-
nuts, and things she used to like when alive. Then Pat-
masuri, Yalluvan’s wife, would enter the apartment and put
on the cloth, and dance in honour of her dead mother-in-law.
Presently she was possessed with the spirit, and addressed
her husband, saying, “ My son, am I not your mother? Be
assured I will do you no injury, but will make you happy.”
He would reply, “ Yes, my mother, it is so! preserve us,
and bless us,” and would then worship her, calling on his
children and friends to do so likewise. This family was
afterwards converted, gave up demonolatry, and became
consistent Christians.
The foregoing instances are interesting as showing the
different forms in which Spiritualism may prevail, and how
too, it maybe degraded and abused. The missionaries, how¬
ever, record several instances of apostacy from Christianity
arising from the dread of demons, and of being bewitched,
and observe that the fear of the demons is the last supersti¬
tion that leaves the native mind. Mr. Mateer mentions the
case of Yohanan (John), who after having been a consistent
member and elder of the congregation for twenty-five years,
on being attacked with a serious illness, was persuaded he
was bewitched, sent for devil-priests, and went through all
the rites and ceremonies used to destroy the spell. Despite
all exhortations he died without any sign of faith in Christ.
The missionaries, unacquainted with Spiritualism, and
probably hostile did they hear of it, are naturally slow to
put faith in the reality of the manifestations around them,
though sometimes apparently staggered. Mr. Mateer ob¬
serves upon the point: “ The question of the reality of any
instance of professed demoniacal possession cannot readily
be answered. I myself have never seen a case in which
there was proved to be aught beyond imposture, imagina¬
tion, or disease. Most of our Christian converts who were
once devil-dancers only assert that 4 something came over
them.’ Still one or two learned and experienced mission¬
aries, who have investigated the subject, have been com¬
pelled to state that they could not absolutely declare there
is no such thing as demoniacal possession.”
Nevertheless the demons, or elementaries, or whatever
they may be called, seem to have given way in India, as in
Europe since the Middle Ages. An aged magician and
2
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 5, W7,
devil-dancer once mournfully acknowledged—and his state¬
ment may have contained more literal fact than the mis¬
sionary who took it down suspected—“ I see several signs of
the downfall and extinction of all the demons. Formerly,
when I sang • but two or three songs, and uttered a few
mantrams (spells), I was covered as with a thick cloud by a
dark host of demons ; but now I utter fifty mantrams, and
that with more earnestness than I formerly did, without the
least success. Demons nowadays do not appear to my
sight. On some occasions, it is true, I see one or two, but
even then they stand afar off, and seem afraid to come near.
I should think it is your religion drives them off. I clearly
see that henceforth my words wdl not pass current as truth
among the people. Your religion must prevail.”
SPIEITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
On Sunday evening, December 24th, Mrs. P. A. Nosworthy de¬
livered an address at the Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, on “ The
Spiritualism and Spirituality of Various Poets,” being a continuation
of the subject opened by her in a previous address. Mrs. Nosworthy
took the following poets in chronological order, namely — Dante,
Milton, Thomson, Byron and Longfellow, and dwelt at considerable
length on the spirit-communion introduced by these poets into their
works, also on the spiritual teachings enunciated by them. She
quoted from the Comus of Milton striking illustrations of the spiritual
teaching, that inward purity and holiness of life create around the
possessor an atmosphere, or aura of moral light, attracting a body¬
guard of angels—
That when a soul is found sincerely so,
A thousand liveried angels lackey her, •
Driving far off each thing of sin and guilt,
And, in clear dreams and solemn vision,
Tell her of things which no gross ear can hear,
Till oft converse with heavenly habitants,
Begins to cast a beam on the outward shape,
The unpolluted temple of the mind,
And turn it by degrees to the soul’s essence,
Till all be made immortal.
And from Lord Byron’s strange poem of Manfred she gave illustra¬
tions that the perpetrator of wrong makes his own hell, both in this
state of being and the next. From the works of Longfellow she drew
the highest spiritual lessons, without the unrest and gloom of Byron,
whose Spiritualism she stated to be shaded with the cloud of despair,
rather than bright with the sunshine of hopeful aspiration.
SPIRITUALISM FROM A SWEDENBORGIAN POINT OF
VIEW.
On Sunday, December 24th, the Rev. Dr. Bayley preached at the
Swedenborgian Church, the Mall, Kensington, on Spiritualism, taking
for his text the 24th and 25th verses of the 49th chapter of Isaiah :—
“ Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive
delivered ? But thus saith the Lord, Even the captives of the mighty
shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for
I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy
children.”
Dr. Bayley said that they could not understand much that was in
the Word of God without remembering that they were the inhabitants
of two worlds; whilst the body associated them with the world of
nature, their souls were associated with that inner world, and were
constantly experiencing its operations for good or for evil. Narratives
in the Bible about the occasional interposition of angelic friends were
frequent, and these visitations were recognised by the seer or prophet,
for Saul said—“ He who is now called a prophet was aforetime
called a seer.” A true prophet might be a bad man, as in the
instance of Balaam, who at first could not see, but his eyes
were opened, and he beheld a vision. Sometimes the eyes
of a seer were opened to behold the inner world, as in the
instance where the young man stood upon the mountain top and saw the
Assyrian army making its way, whereat he was frightened, but a voice
said, “ Fear not; there be more for us than against us.” The eyes of
the young man were then opened, and he saw horses and chariots of fire
all around about Elijah. When the spiritual powers were awakened it
was possible to see into that inner world as perfectly as men see this one,
hence John was able to tell what he saw and heard when he was in the
spirit on the Lord’s Day. These truths could be learned elsewhere than
in the Sacred Book. The eyes of men were often opened in these times
to see spirits, and as the Apostle says, “ Are they not all ministering
spirits sent forth to minister to them who shall be heirs of salvation? ”
Had they not personal experience of such things? Fresh trains of
thought sometimes flashed into the mind—thoughts which were not
suggested by anything around, and which sometimes went point blank
against the course of ideas which had previously been pursued.
Thoughts did not come out of stones, they were not engendered by pillars
of masonry; thoughts came from minds, and if new thoughts did not
come from their own minds, they came from those of others. They were
the inhabitants of two worlds; the outer man was associated with the
earth, whilst the inner man was associated with life and mind. From
that spirit-world they could derive both good and evil thoughts; evil
spirits were like yeast put into dough—they caused a commotion and
removed what it was necessary should be cleared out. Such tempta¬
tions were purifications, and would eventuate in good. Thus the
spiritual world was not far away, but was an inner ’ state of being near
at hand; it was to the material world what the spirit of the man is to
his body, and when his spiritual perceptions were awakened he found
that inner world to be real. The same law ruled in the inner world as
in this one; that is to say, that “birds of a feather flock together.”
Minds of the same order gravitated to each other. In every town upon
earth those of low and brutal tastes herded with one another; those of
higher tastes and purer minds associated together; and what were such
unions of opposite sections of men but those of heaven and hell ? In the
next world, as in this, there were many intermediate states between the
two extremes. In that inner world those who loved goodness and truth
worked together in the many mansions in the Father’s house ; there the
good lived in a heavenly kingdom, whilst the low formed for themselves
their abodes of misery. That inner world was a world of law, and the good
in that world associated by divine arrangement with the good in this. “ The
angels of the Lord encamp round about them that fear Him ; He hath
given His angels charge concerning thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.”
In like manner evil persons had something constantly impelling them to
evil; the spirit cast out said that he would return to his house, and he
took back with him other spirits of evil, “ so that the last state of that
man was worse than the first.” Demon companions made a man worse
and worse, and this showed how necessary it was that God himself
should become the Redeemer of man. Ever since the beginning of the
world humanity had been sinking from a higher and a purer state of
being, until at last evil abounded more than good, and the race was
sinking lower and lower. In about thirty years or more a generation
passed to man’s eternal home, and men who led evil lives could, after
they passed into the next world, influence the thoughts of those still
living upon earth. What vast numbers then were mentally associated
with their prototypes below. When our Lord came, men not only had
their souls possessed, but their bodies also, and even children succumbed
to these horrible influences, for a man asked the Saviour to come to
heal his child, who sometimes was cast into fire, and sometimes into
water, and sometimes was grievously torn. That evil spirits were
numerous was shown in the case of the man amongst the tombs, who
was so raging mad that no one durst pass that way, and who was cured
by Jesus. In that instance the demon said, “ My name is legion, for we
are many,” and a Roman legion was a battalion of seven thousand men.
The freed spirit had more liberty of action than when in the body, and
more power to act. Upon earth the will far surpassed the power to
perform, just as the child could walk in its mind long before it could
walk with its legs. In that eternal world all the powers were quick¬
ened ; the good man became better, and the malignant man more
devilish. Let them only think then of the vast myriads of spirits
acting upon the people of earth. The divine Being made the earth
on purpose to train up angels ; He created man with glorious powers,
from which state he fell, so that God redeemed the world that he
might make angels. “ Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he
hath visited and redeemed his people.” St. Luke told how the
Saviour descended into that part of the spirit world immediately
below this one, the “ barn floor ” of God, which had
become crowded with infernal spirits. Men were told in the
Word how they might endanger their condition; there was com¬
munication between the two worlds, to which all were subject, but
the Lord had taken means by which men should be as much as
possible kept in safety, for while He permitted them to be influenced
from the unseen world, they did not know with what particular spirits
they were associated, neither did those spirits know what men they
influenced. Thus Divine Providence protected the liberty of man, gave
him perfect freedom, and allowed him to work out his own character
and to fit himself for heaven, or for the company of those who were like
himself. To preserve this safeguard, the Lord constantly told him not
to enter into communication with spirits. Such orders were very pro¬
minently brought before the Jews under the old dispensation, so if
individuals broke through the veil between the two worlds, they took the
means into their own hands, and opened a means of communication
which Divine Providence desired should be closed. Therefore they were
so frequently warned against seeking after those who had familiar spirits.
They were told, in Leviticus—“ Regard not them who have familiar
spirits, nor seek after spirits to be defiled by them; I am the Lord
thy God.” The word “ necromancer ” in the Old Testament did not
mean “ a conjuror,” but “ one who spoke with the dead,” and against
such they were warned. When men opened communication, they found
themselves associated with the spirits nearest to themselves, capable of
influencing their thoughts and their affections, consequently the lower
spirits gained greater power over their evil states. Men in ancient
times received fearful teachings from these devils, which they attributed
to God; they built temples to them, burnt their children for sacrifices,
and carried on this demon worship by means of hideous orgies. Some
persons perhaps might ask, “ Do you not think it was because they
were ignorant in those days ?” Oh, no ; God’s laws would never have
enacted death against a trivial act, certainly not against poor old women,
but against those only who committed grievous sin. All sorts of evil
teachings were poured into the world by the opening of this channel of
communication. Some practised it on the ground that good information
might be obtained thereby, but anything which God had forbidden could
not be thus set aside, it would be equivalent to saying, “ Let us steal a
little in order that we may give more in charity.” Such would but be
virtue of a scandalous kind, and disobedience must always come to
mischief. If they “ would not hear Moses and the prophets, neither
would they be persuaded if one rose from the dead.’’ This seeking for
communion with the dead prevailed in days gone by, long before table¬
turning was heard of. In connection with the latter there were
tricksters, it was true; but beyond all that there were realities which
could be accounted for in no other way than by absolute fact. They
should seek not of them that have familiar spirits, and should inquire
not of the dead. The Lord made the world that they might have com-
$mm i&77,
THE SPltliTtJAtilST,
3
munication with the Highest of Spirits, and the law of instruction was
the law of obedience. ^Some might ask why so much account was set
upon the Bible, as there were so many things in it which could not be
explained ?• But at all events they could understand, “ If you love me
keep my commandments.” The Bible, like a man, had its hands, and
its face, and its parts covered, and by study one could get to understand
those things below the outer clothing. They would rise by doing justly,
loving mercy, and living humbly before God; that was the true way to
heaven, which could'not be reached by seeking familiar spirits, nor by
tables, nor hats, nor by pretended communications of any other kind.
If a man forced his way into the inner world, the spirits saw him, but
he could not see them; this was a dangerous position, just like that
of a man walking blindfolded down the purlieus of St. Giles’,
where he would meet with those who would injure and damage
him. What he had just said was confirmed by experience.
He had appealed to instances in the New Testament, and
things quite as horrible had been going on within the last twenty years
in London. Abominations quite as loathsome were suggested by spirits
in regard to family life, and the teachings were pestilential to the whole
world. In the Bible this same spirit was called an “unclean” spirit;
it was a spirit which had taken its sensualities into the other life, and
if a man opened communication with the same, in ignorance of spiritual
things, he was placing himself within reach of beings far more dan¬
gerous than any to be f&und on earth. The man who had had
experience of the troubles of the soul knew that horrors and darkness
would sometimes come over him, standing between God and his soul,
making him feel as if fearful floods were rolling over his head; it was
only by opening his heart in prayer to the God of Souls, to the Con¬
queror of Hell, that he could obtain relief. Happily, the answer then
came, and “the prey was taken from the mighty.” They would find
that the Lord Jesus would succour all who came to him—“ And thou
shalt know that I am the Lord thy God, thy Saviour and Redeemer,
the Mighty One of Jacob.”
Mr. G. C. Joad is at Nice, and has deferred his visit to Egypt.
Mr. J. J. Morse will give a trance-seance at 38, Gt. Russell-street,
this (Friday) evening.
Mr. N. F. Dawe is now at Cannes, and does not expect to return
to England for some time.
The usual weekly, meeting of the Research Committee of the
National Association of Spiritualists is adjourned until Friday, 12th
inst.
Mrs. Woodforde leaves England this week for Rome, where she
will pass the winter, returning again in the spring to resume her pro*
fessional duties.
Conference of Spiritualists.—Those who intend writing papers
for the coming Conference in February are reminded that their essays
must be sent in to the Secretary of the National Association, 38, Gt.
Russell-street, not later than the 20th of this month.
Florence Cook.—Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook) resides occa¬
sionally at Shanghai, but makes voyages with her husband, Captain
Corner, whose ship now sails between its head-quarters at Shanghai
and various other ports. The ship will probably sail for New York
before long. One evening last week there was a reunion at the house
of Mr. Henry Cook, at Hackney, of some of the members of the
celebrated circle once held at the house of Mr. Cook. Among those
present were Dr. Pur,don and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Dr. Pardon left
on the following morning for India, where he will remain for about a
year.
Lord Amberley on Spiritualism.—-What mere intellectual convic¬
tion of a future state can vie with the consoling certainty offered by the
Spiritualistic belief, that those whom we have lost on earth still hover
around us in our daily course; sometimes even appear to us in bodily
form ! and converse with us in human speech. No mere hope of meet¬
ing them again can for a moment equal the delights of seeing their well-
known shapes, and hearing their familiar tones. Hence the Spiritualist
has undoubtedly a source of comfort in his faith which more rational
creeds can offer nothing to supply.—Lord Amberley’s Analysis of
Religious Belief, vol. ii., p. 193.
The British Museum.—Dr. Carter Blake, by permission of the
authorities, conducted a party of visitors over several portions of the
British Museum on three occasions last week, and gave some interest¬
ing descriptions of the objects on view. In a paragraph entitled
“Professor Lankester’s Walrus ” we have noticed the first of these
discourses. On Friday, the 29bh December, the subject of “ Zoology”
was selected, and the party went through the Zoological Gallery, as
well as could be managed, as the specimens are not arranged as tbey
will be at South Kensington, in linear order. The lecturer commenced
with the lowest coral forms, and concluded in front of the case con¬
taining the anthropoid apes, where he pointed out in minute detail the
resemblances to the human species, and the greater anatomical marks
of distinction between the apes and man. On Saturday, the 30th
December, the party met in the Egyptian Gallery, over which they were
conducted by Samuel Birch, Esq., LL.D., F.S.A., Keeper of Oriental
Antiquities. Dr. Birch pointed out in detail the philological laws of
the various hieroglyphical systems, and afterwards the history of the
various dynasties of Egypt. His address was nearly two hours in
duration. Afterwards Dr. Carter Blake made a few remarks on the
Egyptian Book of the Dead, and on the domestic life of the Egyptians,
as shown by their household objects.. Amongst those present at the
lectures were Mr. C. C. Massey; Captain James; Miss Kislingbury;
Mr. W. H. Harrison ; Mr. Simmons ; Sheikh Amiruddin (of Bombay);
the Rev. W. W. Newbould ; and many others. A severe cold pre¬
vented Professor Owen, C.B., F.R S., from addressing the visitors at
the first and second lectures.
IIS SPIRITUALISM OR PSYCHOLOGY A SCIENCE ?
The following paper was read in the Academy, 63, Newlands-street,
on Friday evening last, by Mr. Charleton:—
Mr. Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—If science means “ certain
knowledge grounded on demonstration,” then I hold that this subject is a
| science, and as I proceed I hope to be able to give many proofs that it is
| the only science which demonstrates to a certainty that man has a soul,
| that he is as much a spirit now as he ever will be, and that he exists
I after the dissolution of the body. Before opening the discussion whether
I modern Spiritualism is a science or is unworthy of investigation, I ask
you to divest your minds of any preconceived notions or prejudices,
| caring only for the discovery of the grandest of all truths,
i I am desirous that this audience should experiment and deal with this
| science in the same manner as any other, should try to trace the laws
by which human intelligence is governed and guided. If man is pos¬
sessed of a soul, and that soul lives after the death of the physical
| body, it ought not to be considered beneath the dignity of any society to
| spend days—nay, even years—in the investigation of a science which
] claims to give tangible proof that such is, indeed, an incontrovertible
| fact.
| Recently I heard a professor state in his sermon that the only thing
\ that convinced him of a future life was the resurrection of Christ; but
j how many thousands are there who do not, and cannot believe in that
| historical record, the truth of which is not my object to question. But
sceptics assert with truth that the laws of God and nature are
unalterable; the sky is blue, the g#ass green, as they were in the days
1 of Christ. We have still the same phenomena in nature: the light-
1 ning’s flash, the deep boom of heaven’s artillery, the rush of the torrent,
j the bow in the heavens, the sun, moon, and stars all performing the com-
| mands of the Ruler of the Universe, whom men call God. Then why
j do not spirits of the departed visit the earth, as it is stated that they
| did in the days of Christ ? Are the inhabitants of earth less sceptical ?
| Does God love his children less, that he keeps back positive proof of the
| future life? Certainly not. I hold that so-called Spiritualism corro-
; borates the records of Scripture, and can give demonstration of the facts
| by means of the observance of certain laws and precepts which it lays
(| down, consequently that it has a right to be classed as a most important
| Science.
| I need not tell you that poets and writers, from the earliest days of
II the world’s history, have affirmed with Milton, that “ Millions of angels
I walk the earth unseen.” From Genesis to Revelations you will find
I that fact verified. Longfellow has written that all houses wherein men
| have lived and died are haunted
“ Through the open doors
The harmless phantoms on their errands glide,
With feet that make no sound upon the floors,
We meet them on the door-way, on the stair,
Along the passages, they come and go—
Impalpable impressions on the air,
A sense of something moving to and fro.’’
| Now for the argument d posteriori. I sit at a seance ; various articles
i are lifted and carried ; voices are heard, and forms like human beings
are seen walking about the room; musical instruments are played by
| an invisible force. These are effects. What are the causes. I ask
questions relative to the cause, and receive intelligent answers from the
)| force—whatever that force may be—I call it spirit, because it has
n intelligence, and replies—“I am the spirit of So-and-so.” I ask—
jj “What proof can you give me that you really are a spirit?” The
)| reply is—“I am here. Let your senses of seeing, hearing, and feeling
( j bear testimony to the truth of what I say.” I have had this evidence
(| given me in my own house, in the presence of sixteen competent wit-
Ji nesses, under such conditions that the medium—if he had been so
i inclined—could not have cheated us, as none of us were either insane
j or biologised. Some were present who would have rejoiced to expose
jj the tricks had they been able to detect any.
j j Permit me to briefly describe the sSance:—In a recess formed by
jl the junction of the front kitchen lumber closet under the stairs, and
jj the entrance into the back kitchen, I formed a cabinet, by taking
11 the front kitchen door off the hinges, and screwing it against the
jj entrance into the back kitchen, thereby effectually closing the only
j j entrance by which the medium could be assisted by anybody without
(j instant detection. Across the only entrance to the cabinet was a
j j piece of cord, over which was hung a railway wrapper. The medium,
j a young man, about twenty-five years of age, well-known to many of
ji us, took his seat in a chair placed in this substitute for a cabinet,
j j opposite to which was a small room so full of careful spectators that id
j j would have been utterly impossible that any one could have approached
j j the medium, or rendered him the slightest assistance, without being
j j instantly detected. What was the result ? The medium was placed on
(j the chair, the light was turned out, and almost immediately out walked
jj an old grey-haired man from behind the curtain, leading a young
jj girl by the hand. We saw that material substance was no barrier
(j to their progress outward, for they passed through a table and the wall
j against which it was standing. All who saw this were quite satisfied
j it could not be produced by trickery. On another occasion I was in-
! j vited to a friend’s house to be present at a seance, and I took with me
j j an iron ring which I myself had helped to manufacture. It was nearly
I half-an-inch thick, made to fit my own wrist. Each one at the circle
jj (ladies included) tried to get it on, but failed to put it over their hands,
j j It was, however, laid on the table, and the “ force ” was asked could it
(j put the ring on the arm of any one in the circle. The answer was,
ji “Yes, if you give me my conditions,” which were that we should sit
j j round the table on which the ring was placed, hold hands all round, and
jj then turn out the gas. We literally conformed to the conditions, and in
jj a few minutes the ring was on the arm of a young lady. On the gas
(i being relighted, each tried to take the ring off, but failed to effect it.
Jan. 5, 1877.
THE SEIEITUALIST.
It was suggested by one of the sitters that as spirit put it on, the same
force might be able to take it off again. We agreed to sit for five minutes
for that purpose, and if it failed she was to come to me in the morning,
and I was to cut it off. In accordance with this arrangement, the light
was turned out, and in less time than I could relate the incident the
ring was thrown on the table. Again, sitting at a private circle, and
without paid mediums being present, it was intimated to us that we
should have similar manifestations as those given to the Apostles on the
day of Pentecost. Although the window-shutters and door were
thoroughly secured, there was a rushing wind blowing over our hands
and into our faces, and the wind was laden with rich perfumes; there
were also lights as of tongues of fire moving about the room. The in¬
telligence said that he had been in the spirit world but a few years, and
that in earth-life he had been a civil engineer; he conversed with us
fully half an hour.
THE PIOUS WITCHES OF WILLELSHEIM.
^ The Saturday Review some time since contained a notice of a work
published on the Continent, written by a Catholic priest, concerning
what he calls miraculous appearances occurring at Willelsheim, near
Schletztadt. It seems that at a little village where the people are all
good Catholics, there has been an outburst of the great wave of Spirit¬
ualism, which is now sweeping over the world.
There are stated to be twenty seeresses or she prophets in the district,
three of whom are ladies of positions The speciality of these miracles
lies, says the reviewer, in the pretence of the illuminated that they see
other persons besides the Lord, the saints, and the Pope. Indeed, the
seeress claims to be able to see whole crowds of departed persons, none
whom she had known in the flesh, and as she makes a word picture of
one and another particular person out of this crowd, a pious devotee
kneeling at her side, naturally cries out, “Ah, this is my mother! ”
“ That must be my boy! ” “ You are describing my dear father to the
very life! ”
“ It seems to be certain that Spiritualist literature in some shape must
have found its way to the originator of these visions of the dead.”
Frau Schott had a peculiar formula for representing the exact condition
of the departed. She described those still in purgatory as blue, those
who had passed through it as golden. Their calling when on earth was
indicated by their dress. As the mediums were Roman Catholics, the
visitors were Roman Catholics, and were believed to be the Virgin,
Joseph, and the Pope.
Prior Franz, the author, asks, “ Is it probable that Beelzebub, the
chief captain of the Freemasons, can be the author of these prodigies,
as he is of table turning?” He declares, with charming freshness, that
he himself is a proof that they are from above, as he has been a better
man since he accepted these visions as facts, and it is not the Devil’s
interest to make men better.
Miss Ella Dietz, who gave such an exquisite recitation at the
Harrison testimonial meeting, is now performing at the Theatre Royal,
Haymarket.
Spiritualism in America.—Ah American Spiritualist writes :—“It
seems to me that in this country we have, in one sense, offered a pre¬
mium to fraud and fraudulent mediums, and spirits are plentiful who
come forward to accept the conditions. There has been a reaction here
since last spring, favouring stricter test conditions, but it is not yet wide¬
spread enough. We appeal to you, who have the right material and
organisations to work with, to do good, by example, to the cause of
Spiritualism, which, for aught the body of our people will do, would go
by default, except for the exertions of a few.”
The last agenda of the National Association of Spiritualists says that
the Finance Committee reported that, “ having noticed a statement in
The Spiritualist to the effect that the Association had lost I!50 by pub¬
lishing the Prize Essays, the committee feel it their duty to inform their
members that this is erroneous, there having been no loss whatever to
the Association.” This is but a statement of a part of the facts. There
was a loss of about .£50, in consequence of Mr. Harrison’s offer to print
and publish them not being accepted, but this loss was generously
defrayed by Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. Calder, Mr. A. Tod, and others, by
private subscription.
Middlesex Sessions. — The adjourned December Sessions for
criminal business have commenced at Clerkenwell, before Mr. Serjeant
Cox, Deputy-Assistant Judge; Mr. Wyndham Slade, Chairman of
the Second Court; Capt. Morley, Mr. Hughes Hughes, Sir James Tyler,
Mr. John Morley, Sir John Heron Maxwell, Dr. Brewer, Mr. B.
Sharpe, Mr. Reeves, Mr. B. H. Adams, the Hon. E. D. Butler, Mr.
Bickerstaff, Mr. Broidell, Mr. Ritchie, M.P., the Hon. Colonel Stanley,
Mr. R. M. Philipps, and Viscount Pollington. Mr. Serjeant Cox, in
his charge to the Grand Jury, referring to the case of “ Regina v.
Lawrence,” known as the East-end Spiritualist case, said that the
charge was one of obtaining money by false pretences, the alleged
false pretence being that the defendant represented himself to be a
spirit. They need not trouble themselves with the controversy that had
been raised in recent discussions upon that and other cases. The
question for them to consider was a very simple one. Did the defendant
falsely represent himself to be a spirit, whatever that might be;
whereas, in truth and in fact, he was himself personating a spirit ?
If they should be satisfied of this, it would be a false pretence, and if
he obtained money by pretending to be a spirit the only other question
for them would be, if it was so obtained with intent to defraud the
prosecutor. Shortly after Mr. Cooper, who is instructed to prosecute
by the Treasury, asked the Court to be allowed to add two counts for
conspiracy to the indictment. Mr. Serjeant Cox concurred in the
application, and the case was postponed until the January Sessions.
! SPIRITUALISM IN THE LAST CENTURY.
In the following quotation from the Times of the 30th Dec., Fleury
evidently thought that his question demolished the ghost'story. Assuming
the accuracy of the account (though as it comes from Fleury himself
j it may reasonably be doubted) how easily the ghost could have
demolished Fleury by answering the question thus, f I live in the same
i world as you do. The only change is in me and in the condition of my
existence ” :—
In view of recent prosecutions under the Vagrancy Act, a description
! of a Spiritualistic stance held by Cagliostro in Paris’ nearly 100 years
ago will not be found uninteresting. This accomplished charlatan gave
out that, in addition to the power of transmuting metals arid curing all
I -diseases, he could bring spirits from the “ vasty deep,” and by paying a
| large sum of money—the dead, of course, would not rise for nothing—
i —one might commuue with departed relatives or with illustrious per-
i sonages of bygone times. The evocations were not without an element
| of art. On one occasion the spirit the company desired to commune
j with was that of D’Alembert, and from notes furnished by an eye
! witness, Lady Mantz, the actor Fleury gives the following account of the
ceremony in his Memoires :—“ The spectators or, as Cagliostro preferred
to call them, guests, sat in arm-chairs along the wall on the east side of
the apartment. Before these chairs was drawn an iron chain,” lest some
| foolish person should be impelled by curiosity to rush upon destruction.
“ On the other side was placed the chair intended for the reception of
the apparition. The Grand Koptha—the name assumed by Cagliostro
on such occasions—chose the unusual hour of 3 a.m. for his evocations,
j Shortly before that time a voice was heard to order the removal from the
scene of cats, dogs, horses, birds, and all reptiles, should any be near.
Then came a command that none but free men should remain in the
| apartment; the servants were accordingly dismissed. A deep silence
I followed, and the lights were suddenly extinguished. The same voice,
j now assuming a louder and more authoritative tone, requested the guests
I to shake the iron chain; they obeyed, and an indescribable thrill ran
through their frames. The clock at length struck three—slowly, and
with a long vibration of the bell. At each stroke a flash, as sudden and
transitory as lightning, illumined the apartment, and the words,
| ‘ Philosophy,’ ‘ Nature,’ and ‘ Truth ’ successively appeared in legible
characters above the empty arm chair. The last word was more bril-
| liant than the others. The lustres were suddenly relighted, how no one
could tell. Stifled cries were heard as from a man whose mouth was
j gagged—a noise like that of a man struggling to break loose from per¬
sons detaining him—and Cagliostro appeared. The Grand Koptha
wore a costume to which it would be difficult to find anything analo-
|(| gous. Flowing drapery set off his figure to advantage, and the glow of
| j i enthusiasm in his face made him look really handsome. He delivered a
j ; short but comprehensive address, commenting on the words just seen
I si over the chair. Then, turning successively to the four cardinal points,
! | he uttered some cabalistic words, which returned as if from a distant
| (i echo. The lights having been extinguished, he commanded the guests
Ii again to shake the chain, and as they did so the strange feeling pre¬
viously alluded to was renewed. The outline of the arm-chair now
I became gradually perceptible in the darkness, as though the lines
had been traced on a black ground with phosphorus. The next mo-
I ment, and as if by the same progress, a winding sheet could be seen, with
two fleshless hands resting upon the arm of the chair. The winding-
sheet, slowly opening, discovered an emaciated form; a short breathing
was heard, and two brilliant piercing eyes were fixed upon the spec¬
tators.” The illustrious philosopher, the author of the Preface to the
I \ s JEncyclopcedia, had been called from the dead. He would answer ques-
| j tions put to him, but Cagliostro alone was privileged to hear him speak.
](] “ And what questions were put to him ? ” asked Fleury of Lady Mantz.
Hi “ He was asked whether he had seen the other world.” “And what
||| did he say?” “Ah, Monsieur Fleury, it was a terrible reply, espe-
| (i cially to one who, like me, looks forward to a better future. He said,
|)| ‘ There is no other world.’ ” “ And did no one reply ? ” “Reply! who
!) i could venture to reply to the ghost of M. d’Alembert, returned from—
Ii ah, whence?” “That is precisely the thing. You should have said,
I ‘ M. d’Alembert, if there is no other world, where may you happen to
! come from now ? ’ ”
When is it dangerous to enter a church ?—When there is a canon in
the reading desk and a great gun in the pulpit,
ni A Premonition.—The Cape Ann (Gloucester, Mass.) Advertiser for
11 Dec. 2nd contains an article under the above caption, from which we
Hi extract the following;—“Between twelve and one o’clock on Friday
n| morning of last week, the deck hand on board the steam-tug Sarah E.
J|j Wetherell, lying in the dock of the New England Fish Company, was
11\ aroused from sleep by the impression that some one had called him.
I | Failing to hear anything to bear out the impression, he lay down
ill again, but could not rest easy, as he felt a continued impression that
i (| there was something for him to do. After lying a few moments he
| ! got up and went on deck, when he heard a slight noise as of some-
! 11 thing paddling in'the water near the Rocky Neck Ferry Slip at the
| \ | head of the wharf. Hurrying up the wharf, he found two men over-
j) j board, one of whom was nearly exhausted. After considerable diffi-
Hj culty he succeeded in getting them out of the water and dragging^
(j them to the steamer, where he got them into the fire room, and at last
m succeeded in restoring them to animation. They left the steamer
Hi about six o’clock in the morning, without giving their names, saying
: |{ | that they belonged to a herring vessel bound out that day. But for the
l|j timely assistance rendered them, their voyage in life would have
Hj ended ingloriously in the Ferry Slip. Who can explain what it was
| | that aroused the man who saved them, and would not let him rest
> i * until his work of mercy was accomplished ? ”
Jan. 5, 1&77,
fHE S^ItUTtlALIST.
5
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES. |
BY WILLIAM NEWTON, F.K.G.S. j j
' Mr. Eglinton’s mediumistic powers were again resorted |j
to, in connection with the above series of seances, at the j|
Rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists, j;
on Thursday, the 21st December. \[
There were fifteen in the circle; the conduct of the pro- j!
ceedings was undertaken by Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald.
A dark sitting was first held, two of the more uninformed |s
being placed on either side of the medium; in apparently H
less than a minute “Joey’s” familiar tones were faintly !)
heard, and gradually increasing in strength were accom- K
panied by strong physical manifestations of the usual kind, |)
namely, the floating of the u Oxford Chimes,” the winding |
up of the musical box whichtalso was carried through the k
air, its absence from contact with the table being evidenced
by the cessation of the vibrations felt when playing. Those l|
sitting near the medium testified that the voice appeared to K
come from behind and above him, and many were touched j)
by hands, while those of the medium were firmly held. j)
After a time, we were directed to change to the cabinet. K,
The medium having been secured by sewing his coat sleeves |
together behind him, was placed in a chair within the cabinet i)
in the manner described od the last occasion, his legs and K
feet being visible the whole time in good gaslight. Across !
his knees was placed the “ Oxford Chimes,” and a sheet of j(
paper thereon. A hand, larger than the medium’s, was I
seen to protrude frequently between the curtains, and a |)
pencil having been handed to it, at “Joey’s” request, a j
Christmas greeting was written in the sight of all, the j
whole hand being visible. The musical instrument was j
then drawn in and played within the cabinet, and “Joey ” !
kept up a lively conversation with the circle, promising to !
write a letter in telegraphic signs to one of the sitters. The |)
power gradually declined, and on inspecting the medium, ||
he was found in a deep trance, the fastening remaining per- j
fectly intact. j
The value of these sittings is great to those who desire jj
evidence of physical power external to the medium; whilst !
the readiness of Mr. Eglinton to submit at all times to the jj
most stringent and frequently somewhat uncomfortable con- Ij
ditions, helps to confirm the conviction of his thorough j(
honesty induced by observance of the phenomena which j
occur in his presence. j
I agree entirely with the above. E. Fitz-Gerald. j
6) Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W. j
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS,
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Friday night a special meeting of the Council of the British j <
National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell* j
street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, in the chair.
The circular convening the meeting having been read—
Mr. C. C. Massey, barrister-at-law, after a few remarks on the now j
palpable value of efficient organisation, moved that—
(1)—The Council having heard that the Government have under- !<
taken the prosecution of Dr. Slade on the trial of his Appeal to the j j
Middlesex Quarter Sessions, are of opinion that the said prosecution jj
by the Government will be unjust, impolitic, and subversive of j)
freedom of inquiry.
* This was seconded by Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst. C.E., and the j)
meeting was so unanimous that the resolution was passed without a ij
word of discussion. j
Mr. Massey next moved— j j
That a Memorial, to be approved and signed by the President jj
in the name and on behalf Of the Council, shall be drawn up and jj
addressed to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. j j
Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton, seconded this, and it was passed unani* jj
mously, without discussion. j j
Mr. Massey then moved— j
(3)—That such Memorial shall respectfully remonstrate against the j j
adoption of the prosecution by the Government, and shall assign the jj
following reasons :— j j
A—“ That whereas the particular offence with which the defendant is j j
charged is of a trivial and insignificant character, a public prosecu- jj
tion can only be explained by an assumption on the part of the ij
Government that he is habitually guilty of fraudulent and deceitful jj
practices. - ‘ ' jj
i( That the truth of this assumption will not be placed in issue by it
the prosecution on the trial of the defendant’s Appeal, and is opposed
to the evidence of many experienced, educated and intelligent
observers.
“That such an assumption, therefore, implies the incredibility of
the facts alleged on behalf of the defendant.
“ That the truth of these alleged facts is nevertheless matter of
* public controversy and experimental investigation, and that it is
contrary to public policy that the Government should take a side in
such controversy, or seek to prejudice such investigation.
“ That the prosecution of the defendant, under these circumstances,
will amount to a censure by the Government of beliefs and opinions
honestly entertained by large numbers of Her Majesty’s subjects,
including some of literary, scientific, and social eminence, and that
such a censure is at variance with principles on which depend the'
freedom of opinion and the progress of knowledge.
B—“ That no tribunal, without experience in the observation of the
phenomena which the defendant is charged with simulating, is com¬
petent to decide upon the inferences to be justly drawn from the facts
deposed to by the witnesses for the prosecution.
“ That the conviction of the defendant by the police magistrate was
chiefly owing to the peculiar character of the case before him, to his
want of experience in the observation of such phenomena, and to the
rejection by him of evidence which would have placed the allega¬
tions of the prosecution in a different light.
“ That if the rejection of such evidence is upheld on the trial of the
appeal, a grave injustice will be done to the defendant.
C—“ That similar misconceptions occur in the early observations of
all investigators of the phenomena called Spiritualistic; and the risk
arising from them, should this prosecution be persevered in and be
successful, is likely to deter other mediums from submitting to public
investigation. That this result is clearly contemplated, and is
intended to be brought about by means of this prosecution, which,
therefore, originates in prejudice and in the desire to obstruct
inquiry.
D—“ That whether the 4th section of the Vagrant Act is, or is not,
legally applicable to the case of the defendant, its policy was only to
provide a summary jurisdiction over cases in which money has been
obtained from weak, ignorant, and superstitious persons of the poorer
classes on the faith of false pretences.
“ That it has not been, and cannot be, shown that any money has
ever been so obtained by the defendant, but, on the contrary, the
persons resorting to him have been either attracted by motives of
curiosity, or went for the purpose of investigation.
“ That the defendant has never solicited persons to resort to him, or
made any public representation, by advertisement or otherwise, of his
alleged powers.
“ That the persons who have paid money to him for seances do not
belong to a class needing exceptional protection by the law.
E—“ That the defendant is a foreigner temporarily residing in this
country, and since he has not been guilty of an offence which would
subject him to a prosecution for obtaining, or attempting to obtain,
money by false pretences under a law common to all countries, he
ought not to be prosecuted by the Government of this country under
a law peculiar to it, and which had never before been applied to a
similar case.”
• Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S. Tel. E., seconded the resolution.
Mr. Keningale Cook, LL.D., said that a member of the Irish bar, who
was not a Spiritualist, said that Government prosecutions were so un¬
common in this country, that the very fact of the Government prosecut¬
ing Dr. Slade prejudiced the case. Nevertheless, presuming that the
object of the Government was to elicit truth, his legal friend suggested
that the Government should be asked to fee the counsel on both sides,
since that would not be more unusual than the attempt to determine
philosophical questions at law. Another novelty might be introduced
by the signing of petitions against the prosecution by disbelievers in
Spiritualism, to in some way lessen the effect of the enormous weight
brought to bear against the unfortunate defendant.
Mr. Massey thought the ideas to be well worth carrying out, and tl a":
they could be attended to by those who should draw up the memorial.
Dr. Cook wished to know how far a Government prosecution was
unusual.
Mr. Massey replied that the sting of the thing was that the Government
did not take up small things; they would not take action against a small
betting house, except for the purpose of putting down betting. Hence,
in taking action against one the inference was that he was assumed to
be a notorious better.
The resolution was then passed unanimously.
It was then resolved that copies of the preceding decisions should be
sent to the Spiritualists’ Defence Committee, and the meeting broke up.
Mrs. BUrXe recently invited several mediums and gave at her house
a seance in aid of the Spiritualist Defence Fund.
The Davenport Brothers are now in Australia, creating m ich
excitement. Recently tney were in Calcutta, and were bound at a
public performance by a native police agent, an expert in the f ee iring
of criminals, but of course the manifestations went on as usua'. Their
cabinet consists but of a few boards, which disbelieving comm tte 'men
fasten together on the top of trestles.
6
TilE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 5, 1877.
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE BY A CONSERYATIYE
■GOVERNMENT.
The English Government does not prosecute for a
small offence, unless it is assumed to be one of a class
which it is. desirable to stop. Whether a Fellow of the
Royal Society was or was not cheated out of a sovereign
by Dr. Slade, is of no importance to the English nation,
neither would the question be of interest to Spiritualists,
were they satisfied with the competency and general good¬
will of the prosecutor, and were his alleged results more
in harmony with those of the great mass of more
experienced witnesses. The inference therefore is, that the
Government looks upon Dr. Slade -as a habitual impostor,
and this is the very question which Mr. Flowers refused to
try at law; according to Mr. Flowers, the only question
which could be decided, was, whether, upon a certain day, a
private individual was cheated out of twenty shillings. If
anybody will take the trouble to read the evidence given by
the lawyers themselves before the Patent Law Commission
recently sitting at the House of Commons, he will see that
the attempts of law courts to decide scientific questions, have
hitherto been of anything but a satisfactory character, even
where the judges were aided by the testimony of experts
on both sides. Thus the Government is already committed
to a false position. Although lawyers will understand full
well that the version of Professor Lankester has alone been
heard—supposing that the evidence for the defence should
be again rejected—the general public and the popular news¬
papers will assume that the reality of Dr. Slade’s medium-
ship has been tried, and not only that, but the whole of the
claims of Spiritualism. The Government has taken up its
position on ex parte statements, for it has never made any
inquiry as to the nature of the testimony which Mr.
Flowers refused to hear, consequently it would appear to
have assumed the impossibility of there being any truth in
the facts of Spiritualism. Thus, the Lords of the Treasury,
whose names we printed two weeks ago, have placed themselves
in the same historical position as the authorities who pro¬
secuted Galileo, and from that position they seem to have
little chance of escape. The Spiritual periodicals have for
some time past pointed out that nobody can touch this case
from the prosecution side, without running the risk of
standing in the historical position just mentioned, so it is
to be hoped that Professor Lankester, with his alleged
desire to serve the national interests, did not personally, or
by his agents, keep back from the Government this view of
the case as stated by the opposition side. If he urged the
Government to stand in his shoes, at the same time keeping
back this oft-published view of the case while they were
listening to his ex parte statements, it will be another item in
the career of a now well known Fellow of the Royal Society.
Of course in time the Government will discover that it
has taken up a position calculated not only to cast a slur
upon the religious opinions of a large mass of honourable
people, but so far as human testimony can prove anything,
has placed itself in opposition to the eternal phenomena of
nature, which like the rotation of the earth upon its axis,
and the axiom that(( a straight line is the shortest distance
between two points,” are quite certain to establish them¬
selves in the long run. "When it discovers this, the ques¬
tion is—What will it do next? Will it exhibit the greatest
of all virtues—hut one most rarely exercised—of frankly
acknowledging that it has made a mistake, consequently
that it intends to withdraw at the last moment ? This is
clearly its duty. True heroism is more common with the
individual than with the mass, and as more than one person
has a voice in the future steps of the Treasury, it may be
that the decision will be to go on. Should this be done,
if their steps should really tend to elicit the truth—that is
to say, should allow the evidence on both sides to be heard,
to decide whether Dr. Slade is a habitual impostor or not,
Spiritualists will be very well satisfied with the change in
the prosecution. Moreover, the new opponents of Dr. Slade
will be free from that animus expressed by Professor
Lankester in the Times when he asserted that the British
Association at Glasgow had “ degraded” itself by consider¬
ing the subject of Spiritualism, and that mediums ought to
be treated like “ wild beasts.” Further, if the Government
does not wish to prejudice a scientific question about which
j at present it is probably perfectly ignorant, it ought to pay
| the fees of the counsel on both sides. As yet we do not
I know whether it is to the advantage or disadvantage of
1 Spiritualists that a Conservative Government should prose-
| cute in this case. On the one hand there is the disadvantage
| of the ingrained dislike of Conservatives to everything
j novel; on the other is the fact that Spiritualists are for the
I most part educated and intelligent people, who might justly
! look to an exclusive legislature for protection from the un-
j informed multitude while advocating an unpopular scientific
>| truth, which has, nevertheless, made great headway among
1 the courts of Europe—more especially that of Russia—and
|; which numbers among the believers in the phenomena the
present Emperor of Germany and the late Napoleon III.
Such uncertainties as these can only be decided by its acts.
The phenomena of Spiritualism are diffused everywhere
! in private families, consequently no Government has power
| to stop them, unless a plan be devised to establish a police-
| man in the house of every private family in the kingdom.
| Doubtless this plan appears to be desirable to the Materialists
| and Atheists who hate these practical proofs of immortality,
| proofs which they have so long asserted not to exist, and
j which, by becoming common, are destroying their reputa-
| tions. Another reason why it is awkward for any Govern¬
ment to oppose Spiritualism is that Spiritualists are positive-
minded aiid independent people, who, when the scientific
| world has asserted the phenomena not to be true, have
founded establishments and methods of scientific research of
their own, and who pay no attention to the voice of authority,
when such authority is wielded in opposition to truth, or in
| an arbitrary manner. One thinking and independent person
j is of more weight as a friend or as a foe than two hundred
| people without brains, for which reason it is evident that
Spiritualists have considerable power in the way of making
| their influence felt in society. - Further, that influence
j doubles itself from year to year, and, in addition, can count
| upon support from outsiders, when anything is done to fetter
religious liberty or to impede the progress of scientific
| research by means of overwhelming clamour/ raised by
| feeding the prejudices of a mob.
Having, then, as yet, no data for stating whether the
change of prosecutors is in any very decided manner bene¬
ficial, or the reverse, to Spiritualism, the only thing to be
done is to wait and to see what a few weeks will bring forth.
In the meantime, the Lords of the Treasury had better try
to obtain the phenomena in their own families by following
the instructions printed in this number of The Spiritualist,
and should carefully exclude all strangers. One such new
circle out of three or four is likely to obtain the phenomena;
then the question will arise—“Who is the impostor?” Dr.
Carpenter says, in effect—“ Don’t trust anybody in this
matter, especially women,” from which it would appear
that he has been accustomed to a nice kind of society.
: j | The church of the Rev. H. R. Haweis is to be rebuilt. In the
jlf meantime he has taken St. James’s Hall, and the first of the services
I (| there will be held next Sunday morning.
j ji Dr. Slade’s Appeal.—Messrs. Munton and Morris, the solicitors to
| (i Dr. Slade, served last Saturday upon Mr. Beal, the deputy clerk of
ij the peace of Middlesex, the formal notice of appeal against the con-
I ! viction of Dr. Slade by the magistrate sitting at Bow-street Police-
j j court, and the sentence passed by him. The grounds set forth in the
j J! appeal against this conviction are that Dr. Slade was convicted without
j i proper evidence ; that he was not guilty ; that the magistrate had no
Ij urisdiction; that the substance of the complaint was not stated to the
defendant; and that the conviction was necessarily bad in law, and
j ought to be quashed. Under ordinary circumstances all appeals now
i entered would be heard on the appeal day, to take place at the Guild-
| hall, Westminster, on Jan. 22; but taking into consideration the
exceptional circumstances of this case, and it being the first conviction
of a medium under the act, it has been deemed advisable to appoint a
special day for its hearing, and if the facts, as well as the law
of the case, are gone into, it is probable that the appeal may last
for two or three days. Even if the facts are admitted by consent on
both sides, the legal arguments by the law officers of the Crown in
support of the conviction, as well as those on behalf of the defendant,
must necessarily occupy a considerable time, and for the convenience
of the magistrates generally, and also-for ready access to works of
reference, the case will be heard at Clerkenwell instead of Westminster.
Mr. Edlin, the assistant-judge, will preside. In Dr. Slade’s case the
chief technical question to be disposed of is whether the words “ or
otherwise ” can be construed to apply in the case of a medium, as
neither palmistry, nor anything of the ordinary practice of fortune¬
telling, was resorted to in the seances of Dr. Slade.
Jan. 5, 1871
THE SPlHlTTTAlilST.
7
THE PRINCESS LOUISE AND DR. SLADE’jS MEDIUMSHIP.
The World newspaper of last week made known to the
general public the following particulars about private
stances:—
“ If Dr. Slade has been treated roughly by the law, he can,
at all events, console himself with the knowledge that he
has highly-placed and influential persons among his clientele.
Most enthusiastic of his disciples are said to be the Princess
Louise and her sister-in-law Lady Archibald Campbell.
At, the house of the latter, in Beaufort-gardens, several
wonderful spiritualistic 'seances have been held.”
MY SECOND SOUL. H
BY FLORENCE MABRY AT. j
The clamour of the world is great— !
Its strife of tongues, its thirst for gold, \
Its never-ceasing rage and hate, I
That will not let old wrongs grow cold. i j
Yet never fear but ’midst the fray |
Thy voice shall reach my listening ear, j
And what my second soul shall say, j
My own will gladly pause to hear.
The lust of sight, the pride of life, ! I
Let them go on, if so they will;
Let party malice wage its strife,
And aim its shafts at Heaven still.
Yet, far above the battle roar,
Thy soul shall find its way to mine,
And o’er the victims of the war,
My spirit rush to mix with thine.
No earthly ties our freedom bind,
No fetters gall our boundless will;
Free as the birds their flight that wind,
Until they reach Heaven’s window sill,
Our souls may speak, or silent lie,
May barter thought, or keep their peace;
Hold converse in dumb ecstacy,
Or bid the mutual pleasure cease.
Yet should Earth, bold to interfere,
Place her smirched finger on our bliss,
And sully that which is so pure,
By dint of her unhallowed kiss,
Then will the happy dream be o’er,
The soothing sense of calm alloyed,
And with the dread words, “ Never more,”
The marriage of our souls made void.
But chase away that look of gloom;
The Future cannot be but bright;
We hold in our own hands our doom,
Earth shall not rob us of our right.
And should she dare, when Faith grows dim,
To whisper words of vain regret,
We need but lift our hearts to Him,
To triumph over evil yet!
The Countess of Caithness has returned from Barrogill Castle, where
her ladyship and the Earl of Caithness were recently visited by the i
Prince of Wales. Lady Caithness is now at Stagenhoe Park, Hert- j
fordshire.
Professor Lankester’s Walrus.—On Wednesday last week the first
of a course of three lectures was delivered by Dr. Carter Blake, lec- j
turer on comparative anatomy, Westminster Hospital, in the Geological
Gallery, British Museum. Starting from the fossil footprints of the
Connecticut Valley, the lecturer passed in review the salient points of i,
palaeontology, ending with man in the Aquitaine bone-caves. In a ji
lengthy address of nearly three hours in duration, the most amusing ! ■
part to Spiritualists was that in which he referred to the alleged dis¬
covery of a species of English walrus [Trichecodon Huxleyi. Lankester)
in the English crag deposits. Other evidence had proved the remains 1
on which this fictitious species was pushed by a Fellow of the Royal j
Society into the catalogue of British fossil mammalia to be those of a
true hippopotamus (H. minor, Cuv.). The microscopical characters of
the teeth of hippopotamus and walrus were described in detail. An
amusing description was given of the characters of British and fossil
elephants, and of the probable affinity of the dwellers in the Aquitaine |
bone-caves. *
THE LIMITATION OF SPIRITUALISTIC LEGAL
EXPENSES.
At present there is a desire on the part of persons who wish
to prohibit free inquiry* and to impede scientific research, to
establish a general raid upon the few professional mediums;
and if the Government pays the costs on the one side, at the
expense of the British taxpayer—who must feel delighted
to see his property going at law—every pettifogging
attorney in the country will try to manufacture some case or
other against a medium. Hence the Spiritualists’ Defence
Committee should let it be generally understood that if from
this date any medium in pursuit of gain shall place himself
within reach of the law, the Committee will not help to de¬
fend him. The Committee should also publish that it will
not be morally or legally responsible for any expenditure
whatever beyond that which it has already paid, and that if
any persons take any future expensive steps they do so
entirely at their own risk.
THE PARTING OF THE YEARS.
Last Sunday, at the close of the year 1876, a midnight meeting was
held at the church of the Rev. H. R. Haweis, near Cavendish-square.
Mr. Haweis commenced his sermon by saying: “Is there anything
equal in solemnity to these great natural epochs of time ? How dif¬
ferent they are from many church festivals! How different are the
epochs of God marked out by the planets, from the days of saints.
Time is a thing that concerns us all. You may not be in sympathy
with all saints, but you are in sympathy with time, which is bearing
us all on to the great ocean of eternity. Immersed in our little pur¬
suits, there are times when we see ourselves in our right proportions,
and standing upon this little planet and gazing into space, we feel
that we are but insignificant molecules spinning round that distant sun,
and we exclaim, ‘What is man that Thou carestfor him ? ’ We stand
upon the surface of the earth and reach forth our hands into the darkness,
hardly believing that our Father is near us, or that there is One who
hearethus in the night. We can and do communicate with the Source
of life and light—with Him whose gospel has lifted doubt and a heavy
burden off men’s shoulders, by showing the love, and the moral prin¬
ciple, and the spiritual life of God, as expressed under the limitations
of humanity in Christ Jesus our Lord. I shall ask you this evening
to first lift doubt off your minds, then grief off your minds, then sin ;
then I shall ask you how best to bear the burden of the future, the joy
and sorrow of the coming year. Children of liberty and light, do not
be led astray by the mere watchwords of theology. You go about from
one church to another asking what comfort there is in this life, and
what hope in that to come, asking God to teach you the simple
truths which underlie all forms of religion. The creed of every man
must be forged, mentally forged, by himself—stamped by himself in
his own spiritual nature. The human side of God draws up all men
to Himself; we can never get truth till we sit like children at the feet
of Jesus Christ. ... At the close of this year you look upon many
vacant firesides. I think of those who have passed away. I feel the
reflex action of your sorrow and your grief falling upon me too.
It is true they have passed away, and that many grieve and sorrow
for them ; but have you ever thought that wonderful things spring
out of graves ? Have you ever thought that sometimes when your
angels went out your archangels came in ? Have you ever thought
that they are more potent now than they ever were whilst living
upon earth ? ‘ Man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go
about the streets; or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden
bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel
broken at the cistern. Then shall the dust return to the earth as it
was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.’ Yes, there
is no fireside but has a vacant chair; there are tears for the dying and
mourning for the dead, and the voice of Rachel crying for her children,
and refusing to be comforted. But there is no death. What seems so
is but transition, the entrance to the life elysian through the gateway
we call death; and, whilst we lay those whom we love in the grave,
we feel that their spirits are alive for evermore, that the risen ones
above beckon us away to the many mansions of the Father, to rejoin
those whom we have loved and lost. Lift, then, the burden of sorrow
off your hearts.”
The address for the winter of Mrs. Cora L. Y. (Tappan) Richmond,
is 153, Park-avenue, Chicago, U.S. She contemplates visiting England
next summer.
Dr. Forbes Winslow.—Dr. Winslow recently circulated an atrocious
libel on Spiritualists, saying that Spiritualism was filling lunatic asylums
with vast numbers of people, whereas with all our long acquaintance
with the movement we do not know of a single Spiritualist in Great
Britain now incarcerated for insanity. Does Dr. Winslow—the son of
the well-known medical man of that name—desire to have sane people
placed by law under his professional care ? He was to have spoken a
few days ago before the Dialectical Society, where he would have met
people who would have shown up the mountebank nature of his asser¬
tions, but he backed out from his arrangement at the last moment, and
did not put in an appearance. The last number of The Truthseeker
(Triibner and Co.), edited by the Rev. J. Page Hopps, contains an
article worth reading on the utterances of Dr. Forbes Winslow in rela¬
tion to Spiritualism.
(TfrE SlPIKl^UALISD.
Jan. 5, 187?.
THE REV. H. R. HAWEIS ON SPIRITUALISM.
The Rev. H. R. Haweis, in his new book, entitled Current Coin,
says:—
One word about modern Spiritualism. I am doubtful bow far the I
theories advanced in my former volume, Speech in Season, will bear to
be pressed into all the details I have there discussed, although I adhere
to my general opinion that many of the miraculous phenomena reported
in the Old and New Testaments hear the closest resemblance and
affinity to the alleged phenomena of modern Spiritualism. Into the
truth or falsehood of these I do not propose'to enter here, but I wish to
point out the secret of the fascination exercised by these alleged occur¬
rences over many thoughtful and superior minds. The important !
question is, not so much whether or no the thing looks trivial, or whether
or no the dead are trying to communicate (although, of course, that is
important), but whether the phenomena witnessed prove the possibility
of intelligence of some kind, human or otherwise, living and acting
upon matter, without the brain and nervous system declared by physi-'
ologists to be indispensable to the very existence of any intelligence.
This is the real reason why modern Spiritualism cannot get a hearing
with most scientific men. The latest position of science is that mind j
itself is the product of matter and force organised in such a system as |
man’s. Without such a material nervous system, mind, it is repeated
ad nauseam, cannot exist, much less manifest itself.
Modern Spiritualism affects to supply direct evidence to the contrary.
It offers to produce intelligence of some kind, acting upon matter, and
yet unconnected with a brain and a nervous system. If this could be j
proved, the materialist argument would at once fall, for if intelligence
similar to ours exists, and can operate outside the usual organised con¬
ditions, our own souls may—we do not say must—do the same. God is
conceivable, and intelligence ceases to be the mere product of force and
matter specially organised.
THE WHITE LADY OF BERLIN.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritual Magazine?'
Sin,—In my book, A Journey Due East, 1864, I mentioned this sub¬
ject, and the following statement recently appeared in the Gentlemans
Magazine, No. 96, N. S., p. 636-6,under the head of “Table Talk”:—
“ From a lady at the palace of Berlin, came a telegram to Count
Bismarck, announcing that her femme de chambre had been seized with
hysterics on the anniversary of the first victory gained by the Prussians
over the French in the late war. On traversing the long gallery at the
palace at midnight, the femme de chambre heard the clattering of high
heels and the tapping walking-stick of the Little White Woman, whose
appearance announces a death or a misfortune to Royalty.” The maid’s j
mistress applied to Bismarck, who caused the latter to be sent at once
to a lunatic asylum. “ It is alleged that this apparition has been seen
thrice since, prior to May, 1876; viz., in October, 1872, just before the
death of Prince Albrecht: again in the spring of 1873, to announce the
death of Prince Adalbert; and again in October, 1873, when Queen
Elizabeth, of Prussia, lay on her death-bed.” It is stated that “ many
years ago, a Hohenzollern Princess-^a widow with two children—
desired much to marry a foreign prince, but he declined her offer, alleging
as his reason‘that two pair of eyes’—referring to his aged parents— j;
prevented him. This reason she misunderstood, and lolled her two i1
children to remove the difficulty, as she thought; but upon finding out \ J
her mistake, she died of remorse for the act.’’ The legend is that her 11
apparition appears at intervals to announce a Royal death in the house !
of Hohenzollem. I believe that the story is mentioned in one of Bae- i
deker’s Guide Books with particulars. In Murray’s Handbook she is i
named the Countess of Orlamunda. The subject is discussed philo- j
sophically, by Karl Blind, in the Gentleman's Magazine, No. 97, N. S., i|
p. 763-6. Chr. Cooke.
London. " • ■ • , • . |j
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
From “ The Banner of Light," December 9th. : j j
The following testimony from a materialist in regard to the genuine- j
ness of the phenomena through Henry Slade, appeared in the Boston j j
Investigator of March, 1874:— j j
WAS II A SPIRIT ?—LIGHT WANTED ! j
Mr. Editor,—I have been to New York lately, and have had a sitting |
or seance with Dr. Slade, the Spiritualistic medium.
I took with me a double slate, so as to preserve whatever I might get. j
I was successful, for on it (the slate) I have a communication from my ! j
father who has been dead twenty-five years, and also one from my ||
brother who has been dead five years, said communications purporting to | j
be from the spirit-land; the signature of my father being a fac simile |)
of his writing. The sitting was at two o’clock in the afternoon, the j
sunlight streaming in at the window. The name of my father was ||
written in full at the first trial. I received a communication from him ; /
while a lady of my party was holding the slate, and the doctor was ij
having his hands on the table; a. communication from my brother while i)
the slate was standing on its end without anyone touching it; the pencil \)
was writing, and we could all hear it, the writing being on the inside of j
the slates. i
Please do not say I was deceived—that it was trickery, jugglery, fraud, I I
or deception. On my slate I have intelligence which proves mind (ac- i <
cording to my materialistic ideas for twenty years). Mind cannot exist I (j
without organisation; hence with organisation and mind, together with j j
intelligence, my theory is, that I have a man between the slates ! Am I j< j
right or wrong? Will some of your correspondents please explain ? ., jij
C. Clawey. |)i
Wilmington (Del.), March 1st, 1874. -ti
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept by the writers.]
AN AMERICAN OPINION ABOUT SPIRITUALISM IN ENGLAND.
Sir,—From being an occasional reader in the past of your highly
instructive journal, I have, for nearly a year, been a subscriber, and
am greatly interested in the proceedings of my English brothers and
sisters, and in their methods of dealing with the rapidly developing
aspects of Spiritualism. Although we have, in a recent number of The
Spiritualist, been told that public mediums of note, in your land, may
be counted on one’s finger-ends, yet it gives me great pleasure to observe
that you strive to deal with those you have thoroughly, as well as
fairly ; that you fully understand the value of m test conditions,” and
have many remarkable seances. On this side of the water we have not
been careful enough in this direction; we have not always “ proved
the spirits,” whether they be of God or men. It is good for me to
read your essays, and the reports of the doings of your Associations,
both the *f National ” and the “ Dalston Inquirers,” as well as the
“ Psychological ” societies. They are all on the right road of useful¬
ness to the body of our people, who cannot investigate as scientifically,
either from lack of opportunity, or of the previous mind-training which
is desirable and necessary for accurate investigation.
And although, in your article upon the work of the Scientific Re¬
search Committee, in the issue of November 24th, which is the last
before me, you deprecate the usefulness of perseverance in the present
line of their researches, as not sure to be accepted by (t those who are
not Spiritualists,” I hope, with all deference to your opinions, that
you may not be successful in quenching the ardour of the Research
Committee, for though “those who are |not Spiritualists” will be
likely to disbelieve, and even many who ore Spiritualists may doubt,
yet, I assure you, there are many more who can appreciate the strong
points in a properly described test seance, or a scientific examination
of the same, and who are very glad to have that done for them which
they are not in a position to do for themselves. I suppose, by your
definitions, and by its name, that the work of that Committee goes
further and deeper than the “absolute test ” contained in the ringing
of the electric bell in a closed box, and such like results,—and “ think
(with you) that the right path for experimentalists to take is .... .
to push on Spiritualism as a science my desire and belief are that
this and other scientific committees may lay a two-and-two-make-four
foundation that no one can undo. Then scientific societies, strictly
so termed, may be able to take up and examine some of the details of
Spiritualism without subjecting the medium used by them to a charge
of “ vagrancy,” or “ palmistry,” and corresponding imprisonment, as
our respected Dr. Slade has been obliged to experience, and be threat¬
ened with.
Generally, our investigations, in America, at least, have been too
desultory. We have not united ourselves on a scientific basis, as you
have in England; indeed, it seems to me that this great blessing of
the knowledge of a future existence, and of the truth of spirit-inter¬
course, has come to a different class here from what it has with you.
We have many educated and scientific minds, it is true, who are inte¬
rested, and who thoroughly investigate ; but I judge, taking the mass
of your believers, and comparing with the mass of ours, that though
ours will outnumber you, yet yours will prove to have been more
highly-favoured in the way of educational training. In other words,
that England justifies her right to be called the mother country,
for this, as for many other reasons, that she takes her place as leader
in a thorough examination of this subject.
I have many times been strongly attracted to send you a greeting,
but find your pages so profitably filled, that I question my right to ask
a place there. However, if this will encourage your committees to go
on with their work, knowing that interested eyes and earnest hearts
are watching for their results from over the ocean, and that we rejoice
and are glad in your welfare, and sorrow with your reverses ;—and,
further, that we thank you all for the love you show our trusted
medium, now in your midst, and suffering in his person the indignities
heaped upon Spiritualism, I shall be glad to be allowed thus to
appear.
I have tested Dr. Slade many times, and witnessed all the manifes¬
tations referred to both by persecutors and friends, and so have
thousands of others in America ; and no one has changed in the least
in their convictions of his integrity, by cause of his misfortunes, which
we hope will soon terminate in rejoicings,
Lita Barney Sayles.
Dayville, Connecticut, U.S.A., Dec. 10,1876,
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SWEDENBORG APPLIED TO MODERN SPIRITUALISTIC
MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—As an honest believer in Spiritualism, I write to ask whether
it is possible to obtain any of the miraculous “water of Lourdes” in
England, and, if so, where it can be obtained, and at what cost 1 I
wish to try it for a gentleman who is suffering from an injury to his
eyesight, having seen the cure of Mons. Laserre reported in the pages
cf The Spiritualist. I think that if some person would import some of
the healing waters from Lourdes, it would be used by many invalids
who may shrink from other “ spiritual ” modes of healing, and cures
thus effected upon sceptical persons would probably tend very greatly
to prove the truths of Spiritualism.
I have for some years been a reader of Swedenborg’s works, and,
although he considered converse with spirits to be dangerous for the
majority—at that period—it seems to me that there are distinct reasons
at the present time for the development of spiritual phenomena, as I
Jan. 5, 1877.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
fully believe these are being now permitted in order to strike the death |||
blow of materialism and infidelity. ( j)|
It has seemed to me, considering what distinct proofs are given by i y|
Swedenborg of the genuineness of spirit communication, somewhat jji
singular that his writings are not had recourse to more often, for the jci
sake of confirming various points now disputed. He explains the |||
mystery of what is now teamed “materialisation,” showing that every |)|
human being has “a familiar spirit” attached to him, although in- up.
habiting the world of spirits. He also teaches that every human being j n>
has (I think) two good spirits and two evil spirits attached to him j)i
while in this world, by means of whom he is kept in equilibrium, jcj
according to his own will, and that thus he is in perfect freedom to be In
influenced for good or evil, or, rather, to yield to good or evil, according j);
to his own wish, and in this consists man’s free will. It is stated in ju
the True Christian Religion, paragraph 380, and also in the Arcana i \ j
Cblestia, paragraph 5,470, that “Every man has an associate spirit; i)|
and every man attracts to himself a spirit similar to the affection of |(|
his will, and hence to the perception of his understanding;” Sweden- \{\
borg also writes, elsewhere: “Everyman has either his good or bad i);
spirit, who is not only constantly with him, but sometimes a little |||
removed from him, and appears in the world of spirits. But of this |||
the man still living knows nothing. This familiar spirit has every- i)j
thing in accordance with his companion upon earth; he has, in the Nj
world of spirits, the same figure, the same countenance, and the same i||
tone of voice, and wears also similar garments.” i )j
This does not explain the phenomena of personation and transforma- j U
tion, but accounts for other remarkable phenomena. May it not be that i j j
the “materialisations” now witnessed take place by means of these |)|
familiar spirits of the departed, in many cases 1 Swedenborg’s state- j j I
ment of the existence of three heavens, and of the first dwelling jjl
place of departed spirits being nearest the earth, and having all things j)j
in common with man’s former existence on earth, only under spiritual j j I
conditions, seems to me to account precisely and naturally for the j j [
phenomena of flowers and other objects being conveyed to earth from i)j
that place of departed spirits, where, Swedenborg also tells us, those |:l|
who have left this world remain for an indefinite time, but none longer hi
than thirty years; each being conveyed to the higher spiritual and j/j
celestial spheres, or to the hells, according to their fitness or otherwise i]|>
for admission there. Swedenborg’s statement that “ every man attracts j j j
to himself a spirit similar to the affection of his will,” would appear ]) j
to account for the great worthlessness and trivial nature of the dialogues i j j
often carried on by some mediums. i j j
I must apologise for the length of these remarks, as well as for j) j
having troubled you with them, but should they in any degree help to i||
elucidate subjects of such interest and importance, I feel sure you will m
pardon the intrusion. T. j |
EXPERIENCES WITH DR. MONCK. hi
Snt,—Being in London from December 9th to December 16th, I j|i
invited Dr. Monck to be my guest at my hotel, so that I might have the ] (j
opportunity of noticing the effects of his late incarceration, and I am m
happy to say that his medial powers are in no way impaired. I attended j) |
three seances at as many private residences, where the manifestations j i
were very vigorous and well defined. On all three occasions hands ] j |
were seen, some white, and one black; a slate was held upright on the | !
edge of the table by one of the sitters, when the black hand was dis- j ;
tinctly seen to rise and write a message on the back side of the slate, ijj
These hands were most certainly not of wax, for they were flexible, and j i
moved the fingers in good light, and I can testify Dr. Monck was very j |
innocent of any stage effects, and the conjuring expose paraphernalia are j) j
quite safe in the custody of the Huddersfield police. On another ||]
occasion the piano was sounded and played while two of us were sitting ! |!
on it, the lid not having been opened at all; a large musical box belong- j j j
ing to the host was wound up by the black hand, played and stopped by j ] j
request, Dr. Monck’s hands resting on the table all the while in sight of n j
all. A small musical box, without case, was placed on the table, and j !
was wound up, played and stopped according to the request of the It]
sitters, and several were permitted to put their finger on the barrel while ] j
in motion, to show that the movement was real; Dr. Monck held his j) ]
hands over his head, the musical instrument being on the table in front, j (i
As Japanese silk is supposed by would-be exposers to play an important ijj
part in this experiment, to test the value of this theory, we ran our ])i
hands all round the box, and between the box and Dr. Monck, while it j j
was playing, but we could discover no Japanese silk, or anything ]jj
that would account for the phenomenon on known or unknown natural j ]
laws. ] ] |
These are but a few of the manifestations that occurred, and I am ] ]
justified in saying that all who witnessed them were quite satisfied of j j
the genuineness of the phenomena; by which I mean, that they were j I i
not produced by what is known as sleight of hand or conjuring tricks. | j
What that power really is (seeing that it is guided by intelligence, apart ] j ]
from the operation of the medium) is a matter of intense interest to all \\
who wish to investigate beneath the surface and the seemings of our |j
surroundings; and they who carefully and thoughtfully follow up this ] j
study, willing to be instructed and wishful to learn, will be richly i
rewarded. . ]
The raps, those extraordinary sounds, not produced by a rapping j)
machine, as suggested by some, nor yet by conscious or unconscious ijj
muscular action, but emanating from the floor, roof, or furniture of the \{\
apartment in which the medium may happen to be—these raps were ijj
our constant attendants. I heard them over and over again, in broad ijj
day-light, in good gas-light, in our apartment; and even while walking j j
London streets; and we conversed with our invisible friends by means i 5 j
of these raps, time after time. In fact, this third Intelligence would, ]j i
make itself heard, and demanded recognition. ijj
On Monday evening, December 11th, while Dr. Monck and myself j.|i
were quietly chatting in our room, five raps sounded, which means
“use the alphabet;” the result was that we were told to go to Mr.
Hudson’s studio at Notting-hill the next day, and that Samuel, Dr.
Monck’s guide, would give us his portrait. Tuesday came, but a more
unlikely day could hardly be selected, being dull and rainy, and on our
stating this, the raps distinctly told us to go, and it should be done
according to promise. We did go, and more unlikely conditions could
hardly be imagined. The roof of the studio was leaking in all direc¬
tions, and four or five pails were catching the rain water as it came
through the roof. However, being determined to make the trial, and
thus to test the truthfulness of the communications that had been made
to us, we proceeded. Mr. Hudson being unwell, he left the chief part
of the operations to myself, as I have had good experience in the art of
photography. I placed and focussed the camera, and saw there was
nothing in it beyond the usual lens, case and focussing glass, and slide.
I then selected some glasses out of a quantity, and examined them
to see that they were new, and not old, used glasses; having satisfied
myself on this point, I carefully cleaned them with moist kaolin-
steeped cloths, and then polished them with my silk handkerchief. I
gave the first to Mr. Hudson, who poured on the collodion, and after
sensitising the plate it was put in the slide, and the four of us (Mr.
Hudson, Dr. Monck, myself, and Mr. Armsby, who had joined us at
Mr. Hudson’s), went out of the preparing room to the studio. After
exposing the plate, we asked Samuel if there was any spirit form on the
plate, to which he replied by raps “No.’’ This was correct, as on de¬
veloping the plate, nothing but the sitters came out. A second plate
was prepared as before, and after sitting, Samuel told us that he had
been successful. On developing the plate, we found sure enough a •
third figure (Mr. Monck and myself sitting together to be taken) on the
plate, but not being so distinct as we could wish, we tried a third plate,
when Samuel’s likeness appeared with our own, in addition to his form,
which was recognised by Mr. Armsby as being unmistakably like the
man in earth-life (as he knew him well). There was a pillar, sur¬
rounded by a wreath and a vase of flowers on its top, as well as a
second one to the right of the picture.
There was nothing but a plain dark cloth screen for a background.
There were no pillars or anything painted on the screen. Mr. Hudson
sat by the camera, and Mr. Armsby was on the other side, and neither
of these gentlemen moved during the exposure of the plates. I am
quite confident the plates were the same I prepared, as our eyes were
not off them except while in the dark slide, and yet Samuel (or a third
figure purporting to be his likeness), and the two pillars, and vases of
flowers are shown on the plate.
How came these on the negatives, and who were the operators?
These are questions that are easier asked than answered. All that I
know is, that I can testify there were no lay figures, nothing on the
screen, and nothing in the studio answering to these extras produced on
the plates. The greatest marvel of all to me is, that Mr. Hudson has
not been visited by multitudes instead of by units. However, there is no
accounting for taste. William Oxley.
Bury New-road, Higher Broughton, Manchester,
IS IT TRUE?
Sir,—Deep social questions can obtain^ so far as my experience goes*
a fairer hearing among Spiritualists than others* especially when the
problems have a direct bearing upon human happiness here and here¬
after. In this materialistic age most of the finer aspirations of the
human heart are stamped out. A nobleman* who has had much more
experience than myself, tells me that during every London “ season ’*
young women are driven into the market of “ society ” for sale to the
most eligible bidder, just the same as cattle are driven to their market,
and that such a thing as a true alliance from affection is scarcely ever
seen in fashionable circles. If this be so, no wonder that the husband
can usually be found at the club or anywhere but his most unhappy
spot on earth—home. Ho wonder, too, that if the veil is here and there
privately lifted from the majority of alliances, heart-rending tales of
woe which never reach the public ear are revealed; and I believe that
as a consequence of such unions children are, from hereditary predis¬
position, more unbalanced in their mental and moral nature, and more
liable to bodily disease. These national evils arise from false and
irreligious materialistic teachings, whereby those of the past generation
are unintentionally heaping misery upon those of the present, by hold¬
ing the crucifixion of the affections—the brightest jewels of the spirit
—as a thing of no account. Thus is all poetry crushed out of human
life, and with it a vast amount of happiness. Experience shows that
those supposed advantages for which men fight most, are gained by
daily loss of nobility of character, and when won late in life are found
to bring no happiness.
Is there a Church in this country prepared to promulgate a moral
code for capitalists as regards investments ? When a foreign nation
lives by rapine and bloodshed, or by the enslavement of its own people,
those English capitalists who lend money to such a government for the
sake of a certain percentage, thereby furnishing it with arms and other
sinews of power, have their share in all the murders perpetrated, and
derive from such sources that on which they live. When will a moral
code be established in this nation, rendering it impossible for another
country with its hands steeped in human blood to obtain a solitary
farthing by way of loan from England, because our people shall have
grown too honourable to soil their hands in such a manner 1 B,. G.
LECTURES IX THE BRITISH MUSEUM.
Sir,—Last week I had the pleasure of being one of a party conducted
by Dr. Carter Blake through the galleries of Zoology and Antiquities in
the British Museum. Dr. Blake lectured by the way* and by his lucid
manner of classifying the specimens, and adapting them to illustrate
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 5, 1877.
10
his remarks, made the “ dry bones live again. How far more instruc¬
tive is one such walking lecture than years of poring over books, and
trying to realise the meaning of articulata and edentata, or rather of
taxing the memory with names which convey no meaning ! Dr. Blake’s
remarks were enlivened with anecdotes, such as that of the professor of
learned repute, who proclaimed that he had discovered by the markings
in a hippopotamus tooth a new species of walrus, whereas the tooth had
only been cut across at a new angle, showing a variety in the rays^ or
markings.
The lecture on “ Antiquities’’ was chiefly delivered by Dr. Birch,
whose knowledge of Egyptian lore is of world-wide fame, and to whom
all who attended owe their best thanks for his able and interesting ex¬
position of the hieroglyphs and monumental inscriptions.
I believe it is Dr. Blake’s intention to repeat the experiment in the
Geological Museum, Jermyn-street, during the coming season, when I
would recommend all who desire to learn something of geology to
profit by the rare opportunity. A Gbateful Student.
January 2nd, 1877.  
THE NATURE OF THINGS.
Sir,—A writer in The Spiritualist thinks that a stronger position
than that of Mr. Haweis might be taken.
By denying altogether the reality of matter as commonly under¬
stood.
B. By presenting the universe as altogether spiritual in its fundamental
nature.
And again, in supposing the substance to be in perpetual activity.
But there is nothing new in these suppositions, since they are the
fundamental principles of Lord Bacon—That the impressions of the
senses have referepce to man, and not to the universe, and which
illusions can only be corrected by philosophy. Again, that the subtlety
of matter is quite beyond the powers either of the senses or the under¬
standing, and its .essential, or ultimate nature, and power, and law,
unintelligible, or, in the words of Tyndall, <{ mystical and trans¬
cendental,” especially in its structural or formative principles, in a
perpetual sequence of action, as by a necessity in the very nature of
things. Berkeley’s theory is just as much opposed to the externality of
the Spiritualist’s belief as to that of the so-called materialist, Huxley’s
statement is just sceptical mysticism, or he would have been able to
explain his meaning. Then we have Lewes, in the preface to his Problems
of Life and Mind, ignoring both Spiritualism and Materialism; but
what it is that he ignores he does not inform us—which is rather pro¬
voking.
I have no patience with these veiled prophets. As for the facts of
biologised sensitives, they are exceptional instances, and may be used
to illustrate Berkeleyism as dreams may, but surely may be advanced
by the sceptic against Spiritualism rather than the views of the so-
called Materialist in the common and ordinary experience, because
he might urge that all the spectators at a seance were in some way
biologised sensitives, absurd as we should see the objection to be.
As to Professor Tyndall’s notion of our wanting the bridge between
thought and the thinking substance, it is all nonsense; all nature is
mystical and transcendental, to use his own expression, and the sub¬
stance thinking no greater mystery than any other. Newton dis¬
covered the law of gravitation, but of the reason of bodies attracting
one another he said that he could form no conception, any more than
in respect to any other primary cause and fact in nature. We are
surely not returning to the theory of “ pre-established harmony,” by
which mind and brain were supposed to act in correspondence, like
two clocks side by side. Man is a thinking substance, and that is all
we can say or know about it, though of the genesis of thought we know
much, as with regard to the conditions and order and sequence of
matter, just as in regard to any other order and sequence of the observed
phenomena of nature, “ and more we neither know nor can know.”
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, January 1st, 1877.
Mr. J. M. Peebles is now in San Francisco, but will leave in a few
days for Australia, on another tour round the world, to observe the
position of Spiritualism in various countries.
Great and good work in connection with Spiritualism might be
done by the Library Committee of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists were it greatly enlarged, and did it attend to the literature of
Spiritualism as thoroughly as the Research Committee attends to the
science thereof. If the Library Committee were working with vigour,
and if it placed definite plans before the public, there would be no lack
of funds to support it in its work.
The Davenport Brothers in Australia.—These wonderful me¬
diums concluded a successful series of seances at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, on Saturday, September 16th. The ingenuity of critics
and sceptics was taxed to the utmost to account for the so-called
tricks of the brothers. Theories the most extravagant and absurd
found their way into the daily papers, and were speedily demolished by
the occurrences of the next seance. One writer gravely , suggested that
Mr. Fay and one of the brothers were lusus natures, and demanded a
surgical examination to discover a third arm! The press has unani¬
mously concluded: that there is nothing in either the cabinet or the
ropes to account for the phenomena, and the latest and most popular
theory is that the material of which the Davenport and Fay bones are
composed is a species of india-rubber, which will contract or expand
ad lib. Unfortunately for this idea, the said bones, when handled, feel
as firm and unyielding as those of other people, but this is of very
little consequence fo those who have already made up their minds on
the subject. The brothers and Mr. Fay are making a successful tour
through the provinces, and were to appear on the 30th at Castlemaine.
■—Harbinger of Light.
EXPERIMENTS WITH DR. SLADE.
BY GEORGE KING.
Dr. Slade’s name a few weeks ago was in everybody’s
mouth. By one party he was condemned as an unprincipled
impostor, by another lauded ds a persecuted martyr. More¬
over each side [brought forward alleged facts in support of
its opinions. Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, on the one
hand, told how a paltry attempt had been made to swindle
them by clumsy sleight of hand, and famous conjurors were
enlisted to show the way the trick was done. On the other
hand, men of unquestioned eminence came forward and
maintained [that Messrs. Lankester and Donkin had been
hasty in jumping to conclusions, and that had they exercised
more patience in their investigations they would have met
with phenomena not so easily disposed of.
In the midst of these contradictory reports, it seemed the
only wise course to go and see for myself, which I did ; and
the following is a brief record of my experience.
At five o’clock in the afternoon of Saturday, 18th Nov.
last, I repaired, by appointment, to the house of Dr. Slade.
I had determined to take with me a slate of my own, and on
the way I tried in four or five shops to find one to my mind.
At last I secured what satisfied me—a folding slate with a
varnished wooden case of somewhat peculiar construction.
Each of the two flaps was seven and three-quarters inches
long, by five inches wide, and had a three-quarter inch
frame all round, which projected one-tenth inch above the
surface. When the slate was folded there was, therefore,
between the leaves a completely enclosed cavity about one-
fifth inch deep, and nearly air-tight. The slate was done up
in a paper parcel by the shopman, and tied with twine.
Thus armed, I presented myself at Dr. Slade’s door, and
was ushered into the drawing-room, where were Dr. Slade,
Mr. Simmons, and two ladies. Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons
were sitting by the fire, and they invited me to take a chair
beside them. Dr. Slade shortly said it was time to “ light
up,” and he retired to a small adjoining parlour. In less
than two minutes he returned, and asked me to follow him.
The parlour was brilliantly lighted by a gaselier suspended
over a small, rickety, mahogany table in the centre of the
room, and the gas remained at full power during the whole
of our sitting. I examined the table, turning it over for the
purpose. It had four legs attached to a frame, and was
about three-and-a-half feet by two feet wide, exclusive of a
flap on each side. The flap and its appurtenances on the
side opposite to that at which I sat was much shattered, as
if by violent usage, but on my side there did not appear to
be any breakage. The flap against which I sat must
originally have been intended to rest on two brackets, but
one of these had been removed, so that under the corner of
the raised flap which was between me and Dr. Slade there
was no impediment whatever. We sat down, -I against a
flap of the table, with my back to the fire-place; Dr. Slade
at the end of the table, on my left, with his face towards
me, his left shoulder towards the table, and his legs projecting
towards the fire-place. I produced my slate, and undid the
wrapper. Dr. Slade had it for one instant open in his hand,
but in my full view, as he dropped upon its clean surface a
minute crumb of pencil. The slate was then firmly closed, and to
my certain knowledge remained so till I opened it myself in
the drawing-room half an hour afterwards. Dr. Slade pro¬
posed that it should be tied up, to which I, of course,
assented. He got a piece of twine from the chimney-piece,
and while the slate was in my hands and his the leaves were
securely tied together and the twine double knotted. Dr.
Slade placed his left hand with both mine on the table, and
for a few minutes held my slate in his right, but in my full
view. I watched it intently all the time. He said there
was a power which prevented him from putting it under , the
table even if he would. After a short time, as nothing
came, Dr. Slade placed my slate on the table under my left
arm, and my left elbow rested on it almost till the close of
the sitting. Dr. Slade never touched it again. He took a
slate of his own, with, a crumb of pencil on its surface, and
passed it out of sight under the table, saying, “Our friends
have done nothing for us yet. Perhaps they do not want to
write on the gentleman’s slate while I hold it. Will they
write while the slate is under his arm and I am not touching
it?” For a second of time scratching was heard on Dr.
Slade’s slate, and, when it was brought up, the words were
on it a We will.” He then joined his right hand to my
left, his left still clasping my right, and instantly within my
slate the sound of writing became audible, and continued
for about ten minutes. At frequent intervals I put my ear
close to the slate to listen, and there could be no
mistake. The sound was low, but very distinct, and
I specially noted that we could recognize the crossing
of the l{ t’s,” the dotting of the “ i’s,” and the insertion
of the punctuation. It seemed as if a person were writing
not rapidly, but steadily and deliberately, without jerk or
pause. Two loud raps on the table announced the conclusion
of the message. Dr. Slade then passed his own large slate,
apparently perfectly clean and dry, half under the table, but
so that I could see the other half and his hand holding it.
My own slate meanwhile I placed beside my right elbow to
be out of the way. Dr. Slade asked, u Can you do more for
us to-night ?” A scratching was heard, and the word “ can¬
not ” appeared on that portion of the upper side of his slate
which had been beneath the table. The a c ” was close to
the side of the slate nearest to me, and far out of reach of
Dr. Slade’s hand, and the word was written not horizontally
but perpendicularly towards Dr. Slade. The “ t ” was care¬
fully crossed, and the fragment of pencil lay where it had
stopped, just at the end of the cross stroke of the “ t.”
We returned to the drawing-room, I carrying my own
slate, and there I cut the string that bound it, and within I
found a long message, entirely filling both sides of the slate
and consisting of ninety-nine words, besides the signature
UA. W. Slade.” It was carefully written in a good firm m
hand, and the lines were straight and even. Each a t ” was m
accurately crossed and each “ i ” was dotted. The crumb of l|
pencil, too, was there, with one end worn away as if in writing. ; j
Had only a few words been scrawled on my slate, it would | |
have been, under the circumstances, astonishing,but the result j !
actually attained is simply confounding, when it is remembered ;
that the quickest penman, with every facility for writing, can- |
not put down on paper, in long hand, with every word at full |
length, more than about twenty words per minute, and that j j
writing on a slate, where there is more friction, occupies j j
more time. By whomsoever it was done, this message must j i
have taken at least five minutes to produce; but Dr. Slade I
had not the slate for that length of time in his hand—and, j
be it repeated, it had never left my sight—and for less than ||
five seconds only was it open. As already explained, it was, |
except for one instant, firmly tied shut with twine.
It is impossible to describe the jealous care with which |
I watched to detect deceit. I could discover none, nor the ||
possibility of any. I had gone with my mind full of the i
evidence given in court by Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, |
but their alleged exposure was quite inapplicable to !
what took place in my presence. j)
On December 15th, I had again an opportunity, in con- ||
junction with a few friends, of testing Dr. Slade’s alleged |j
mediumship. We sat in our own room, at our own-table, \)
and used our own slates, one ordinary school slate, and one i
folding book-slate. As the seance was not so completely j
under my personal control as the previous one, it is not !
worth while describing it with so great minuteness. Suffice
it to say that I sat next Dr. Slade, on his right hand, and
that, as he always held the slate in that hand when he
placed it under the table, I had every opportunity of closely
watching him. We had a number of very short messages,
sometimes on one slate, sometimes on the other. I observed
a mark on the school slate, which, on those occasions when
the slate was not passed entirely out of sight, enabled me to
say positively that the writing was idone on the upper side,
and not on the under. One little circumstance seems to
me very remarkable: I have already alluded to it above.
When one of these messages appears, the crumb of pencil in¬
variably remains at the point where it stops after writing
the communication, forming a perfect continuation of the
last stroke of the last letter. This fact, trifling in itself, to
my mind, goes far to prove that the message has been
written with that identical piece of pencil, and on the upper
side of the slate. I do not see how otherwise it could be placed
instantaneously in position with such mathematical accuracy.
The messages always purport to emanate from some in¬
visible being. The major part come in the name of A. W.
Slade,- the deceased wife of the medium, but other so-called
M spirits” are frequently represented, and it is a curious fact
that with the change in the name of the penman the
character of the handwriting completely changes too. It
would be interesting to submit various specimens to a cali-
graphic expert. The matter of the communications appears
to me to be of far less importance than the manner of their
coming. The only one of any length received by me was
that of ninety-nine words above mentioned. It is couched
in somewhat high-flown language, and the subject is the
advantages of an assured knowledge of immortality. It is
very much such as a person of fair intelligence and educa¬
tion might utter on being suddenly asked to make a neat
little speech to a total stranger.
11, St. George’s-terrace, Gloucester-road, S.W., Deo. 18, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Duking the past year the National Association of
Spiritualists has been so steadily increasing in prosperity by
the accession of new members, that the Council desires to
abolish the remainder of the three years’ Guarantee Fund,
which falls heavily upon some twenty friends of Spiritualism.
The rank and file of the members have, therefore, been asked
to somewhat raise their subscriptions, and some have already
doubled them. TheAssociation has all along been well managed,
it is entirely free from debt, it has established a good library,
and has furnished its premises in a substantial and elegant
manner; moreover, the greatest harmony and unanimity
prevail among its members. Deficiency of organising power
is a mark of an unadvanced state of civilisation, as well as
of lack of individual friendliness, hence all Spiritualists
should unite in the present attempt to live together in har¬
mony. Organisation promotes individual freedom, for it
gives every Spiritualist a voice and a vote in the manage¬
ment of the public business of the movement, which is better
than being compelled to look on whilst an autocratic power
does what it pleases, giving the rank and file no liberty to do
anything but to pay the expenses.
SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS.
The new volumes of the various spiritual periodicals begin to-day,
and they may be obtained from the Branch Office of The Spiritualist
newspaper. The following are the charges for a few of them, post-
free to any part of the United Kingdom, and other journals may be
obtained to order:—
s. d.
The Spiritualist (London: weekly)   ...   10 10
The Spiritual Magazine (London: monthly)..'. ... ... 13 0
The Medium (London: weekly) ...   8 8
The Banner of Light (Boston: weekly) ...   15 0
The Spiritual Scientist (Boston-, weekly)  12 0
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Boston: weekly) ... 15 0
The American Spiritual Magazine (Memphis, U.S.) ... 12 0
The Revue Spirife (Paris: monthly)  12 0
The Revista Espiritista (Madrid : monthly) ...   .12 0
Psychic Studies (Leipzig: monthly) ...    12 0
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne : monthly) \  10 0
Spiritualists in the provinces should take care that the local reading
rooms and newspapers are supplied weekly with some of tlxe literature of
Spiritualism.
Professor Denton in England.—Professor William Denton arrived
in Glasgow from Boston, U.S., a few days ago, and, after a short visit
to his native town of Darlington, came on to London, and called last
Saturday at the offices of the National Association of Spiritualists. A
day or two later he left for Paris, to buy some philosophical apparatus,
his flying visit to Europe being made chiefly for this purpose. At
present his intention is to return to America in a few days, hut he
would do better did he remain here a few weeks, in order to be able
to carry with him to America some information about Spiritualism in
England.
The Invisible.—Hush, Jane! you think too much of the love of
human beings; you are too impulsive, too vehement; the, sovereign
hand that created your frame, and put life into it, has provided you with
other resources than your feeble self, or than creatures feeble as you.
Besides this earth and besides the race of men, there is an invisible
world, and a kingdom of spirits; that world is around us, for it is
everywhere, and those spirits watch us, for they are commissioned to
guard over us; and if we were dying with pain and shame, if scorn
smote us on all sides, and hatred crushed us, angels see our tortures,
recognise our innocence, ... . . and God waits only the separation of
spirit from flesh to crown us with a full reward. Why, then, should we
ever sink overwhelmed with distress when life is soon over and death is
so certain an entrance to happiness—to gLoxy,—Charlotte Bronte in
“Jane Eyre.”
Jan. 5, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
12
Jan. 5, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
At last the prison door stood wide,
They led the saint abroad;
By many an old familiar place
Her trembling footsteps trod,
Till, faint with weakness and distress,
She climbed the hillside bleak,
And faced the gallows built thereon,
Still undisturbed and meek.
They hanged this weary woman there,
Like any felon stout;
Her white hairs on the cruel rope
Were scattered all about.
The body swung upon the tree
In every flitting wind,
Reviled and mocked by passengers
And folk of evil mind.
A woman old and innocent,
To die a death of shame,
With kindred, neighbours, friends thereby,
And none to utter blame!
Oh, God, that such a thing should be
On earth which Thou hast made !
A voice from heaven answered me—
li Father, forgive { ” it said.
Banner of Light.
THE DEATH OF GOODY NURSE.
A Ballad of Salem.
BY ROSE TERRY COOKE.
The chill New England sunshine
Lay on the kitchen floor ;
The wild New England north wind
Came rattling at the door.
And by the wide old fire-place,
Deep in her cushioned chair,
Lay back an ancient woman,
With shining snow-white hair.
The peace of God was on her face,
Her eyes were sweet and calm,
And when you heard her earnest voioe
It sounded like a psalm.
In all the land they loved her well;
From country and from town
Came many a heart for counsel,
And many a soul cast down.
Her hands had fed the hungry poor
With blessing and with bread ;
Her face was like a comforting
From out the Gospel read.
So weak and silent as she lay,
Her warm hands clasped in prayer,
A sudden knocking at the door
Came on her unaware.
And as she turned her hoary head,
Beside her chair there stood
Four grim and grisly Puritans—
No visitants for good.*
They came upon her like a host,
And bade her speak and tell
Why she had sworn a cruel oath
■ To serve the powers of hell,
To work the works of darkness
On children of the light ?
A witch they might not suffer here
Who read the Word aright.
Like one who sees her fireside yawn,
A pit of black despair,
Or one who wakes from quiet dreams
Within a lion’s lair,
So glared at them her starting eyes,
Her voice essayed no sound ;
She gasped like any hunted deer
That eager dogs surround.
“ Answer us!” hoarse and loud they cry;
She looked from side to side—
No human help—a Oh, gracious God!”
In agony she cried.
Then, calling back her feeble life,
The white lips uttered slow,
“ I am as pure as babes unborn
From-this foul thing, ye know.
“ If God doth visit me for sin,
Beneath His rod I bend.”
But pitiless and wroth were they,
And bent upon their end.
They tortured her with taunt and jeer,
They vexed her night and day—
No husband’s arm nor sister’s tear
Availed their rage to stay.
Before the church they hauled her then
The minister arose,
And poured upon her patient head
The worst of all its woes.
He bade her be accursed of God
For ever, here and there;
He cursed her with a heavy curse
No mortal man may bear.
She stood among the cowering crowd
As calm as saints in heaven,
Her eyes as sweet as summer skies,
Her face like summer’s even.
The devils work their wicked will
On matron and on maid.
Thou hast bewitched us! ” cried they all,
But not a word she said.
They fastened chains about her feet,
And carried her away;
For many days in Salem gaol
Alone and ill she lay.
She heard the scythes along the field
Ring through the fragrant air,
She smelt the wild-rose on the wind
That bloweth everywhere.
Reviled and hated and bereft,
The soul had plenteous rest,
Though sorrow, like a frantic flood,
Beat sore upon her breast.
* These men knew so well how to treat mediums, that had they lived in these days they
would probably have been recognised as shining lights of science.—Ed- of S.
LINES BY MILTON IN HIS OLD AGE.
This sublime production was but lately discovered among the remains of
our great poet, and is published in the recent Oxford edition of Milton’s works.
I am old and blind!
Men point at me as smitten by God’s frown—
Afflicted and deserted of my mind—
Yet I am not cast down.
I am weak, yet strong;—
I murmur not that I no longer see—
Poor, old and helpless, I the more belong,
Father Supreme, to Thee.
0, merciful One!
When men are farthest, then Thou art most near.
When friends pass by, my weakness shun,
Thy chariot I hear.
Thy glorious face
Is leaning towards me, and its holy light
Shines in upon my lonely dwelling-place,
And there is no more night.
On my bended knee
I recognise Thy purpose clearly shown;
My vision Thou hast dimmed, that I may see
Thyself—Thyself alone.
I have nought to fear—
This darkness is the shadow of Thy wing.
Beneath it I am almost' sacred—here
Can come no evil thing.
Oh, I seem to stand
Trembling where foot of mortal ne’er hath been,
Wrapped in the radiance of Thy sinless land,
Which eye hath never seen.
Visions come and go—
Shapes of resplendent beauty near me throng—
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow
Of soft and holy song.
It is nothing now,
When heaven is opening on my sightless eyes—
When airs of Paradise refresh my brow,
That earth in darkness lies.
In a pure clime
My being fills with rapture ; waves of thought
Roll in upon my spirit; strains sublime
Break over me unsought.
Give me now my lyre!
I feel the stirrings of a gift Divine,
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire,
Lit by no skill of mine.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, late curate of Portsmouth, and now
chaplain of H.M.S. Monarch, was in London last week, but has since
left for India.
In testing a medium during cabinet seances, the sleeves of his coat
are sometimes sewn together behind his back. This is not an efficient
method of securing him, because one arm can be drawn out of the
sleeve first, and then the other. The wrists also must be firmly tied
together with tape, to make the test of any value; or the additional
precaution—sometimes used at Mr. Eglinton’s stances before the
National Association of Spiritualists—might be adopted, namely, that
of sewing the front edges of the coat together in several places, espe^
cially close under the chin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R.—We shall be glad to receive trustworthy information about the remark¬
able psychological phenomena prevalent among some of the natives of
India, also the names and addresses of more European residents in India
interested in Spiritualism.'
The Spiritual Scientist (Boston, U.S.) has reached us irregularly during the
last six months, and copies for some two or three weeks did not arrive at
all. The Banner of Light comes with great regularity, but last week the
usual parcel did not come to hand; it is now ten days overdue.
Jan. 5, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reahty of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,ialso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo„ 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and ’America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned abihty. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Superaatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by ‘the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should he established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of ajtrmnpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap, edition,
7s. fld. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d. .
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM ..MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PfiYSIOAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d. '
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE^EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant! 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUYOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott.. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: % LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex-
\ position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and j. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, * (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNEL as
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s. •
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price’ 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 6, 6, and 7, price 6s.
each,
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidioek Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 8d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier an Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s,
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage,
A List of Works sent post-free on application,
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year,
'OAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
JLV MESSENGER fob 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Efhbkmis, Thirteen Stamps.
London; Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C,
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S,; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent,
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. fid. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paxis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIBITUAIilST,
Jan. 5, 1877.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
ourney to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfbrtuhate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, .the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,’,’ and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. 1 A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of, immortality.
When wfe reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, sufler. him,: whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what w.e know to be right. "
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support- so ii)ill be the poioer of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
of by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
ALEXANDER Oalder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
fj. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers. g^EVtld, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
\ berland-place, W.
O. o. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A, Joy, 6D, Great Enssell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCKIPTIONS.
£ s. d.
The St. Petersburg Committee    50 .0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad  *  30 0 0
Miss Douglas       25 0 0
“Nicodemus-”    25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   ;  21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  20 0 0
Countess Caithness    10 10 0
Mrs. \Veldon     10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith     10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant       10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb        10 10 0
Miss H     10 0 0
Sir O. Isham, Bart     10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod      10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel     10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ” .....'.    10 0 0 '
B.P. J   .A......   10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe       10 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones       5 0 0
„ O. C. Massey     5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougaill Gregory     5 0 0
•,V ^Douglas Bayley..;  5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge   5 0 0
Mrs Hennings.       5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilbum, jun    5 0 0
„ A. Joy   i .......i. 5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer      r. , 5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson      5 0 0
Mrs. H      5 0 0
An American     5 0 0
Mrs. O. Bird'    .5, 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W, P. Adshead   3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge     3 3 0
Mr..J. B. Stones    2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)      2 2 6
1 Mr. H. Withall    2 2 0 -
Captain James        2 2 0
M.A (Oxon.)      2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson   2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead       2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival   2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon    2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe      2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  2 0 0
Mr. A. It. Wallace    2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson.... .’. 2 0 0
“ Disciple ’’      2 0 0
Mrs. ft’atkins t *  2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes...  2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Stones      110
„ J. Mould  | MR     110
Dr. K. Cook    110
k. g. ....,;    110
J.B.W...        mi 110
Mi*". Maltby : I 110
Major Menars     110
Mr. J. C. Ward    110
„ E. D. Bogers      110
„ M prell Theobald,  110
,, William Theobald..-.  110
„ B. M. Theobald, M.D. .; '.  110
„ ID N    110
„ J. Andre'       110
,. James Brown   1 10
The Misses Withall    110
Dr. Baikie  110
Anon, per C. C. Massey       11 0
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Bums   110
Mr. T. P. Barkas      1 10
„ Tucker          10 0
Mrs. S. Parker    1 0 0,
Miss Douglas Bayley ^ -.   10 0
Mr. A. Smedley     10 0
., F. Smedley   10 0
“ D ” (Clericus)    10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan  10 0
Mr. St. George Stock -     10 0
C. Beimers   I    1 0 0
„ J. Walhouse..,.....•    10 0
Smaller sums     4 0 6
Collected by Mr. J. Bums 2 7 6
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,” up to the 9th Dec., of which £264 3s. has
already been remitted to England.
dols.
Colby and Bich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston     200,00
EpeS Sargent, Esq., Boston  I.... 50.00
A. P. H (a Spirit)       25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N, Y. City       5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass   3,00
G. Sweet, N,Y. City     2,00
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass     5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt.........'. 5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass  , 2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O    100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass  • 5 00
W. H. R.      3,00
Cbas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Wahham. Mass  2,( 0
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston .-  3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston .■ ;.....  10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester   2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y   100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mats  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass   100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass.'    100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass    100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass   5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y  50,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ct  2,00 ,
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q.............  2,00
, A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio..,..  2,00
M. A. Giles    2,00
O. Giles   ...'     2,00
A Friend to the Cause ;      2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me.   2,00
Geo. W. Smitn, Boston, Mass  20,CO
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa.................  5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct , 3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, R. I..     3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass....   2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa.  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. Y....  2,00
Joseph Kinsey..     5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke     3,00
Martin Hiscdx, Providence, B. 1  2,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111   2.00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H. K. Morrill..! 1  2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I |  5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y.  3,00
J. N. H., Peacedale, B. I   25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport; Conn  5,00
F. B. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111    2,50
Joseph Sckroeder, ditto  5,00
Samuel Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Rahway, N. J  2,00
“A Friend of the Banner”      50,00
J. W. Robins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N. Y  2,00
J. B. Angel, Red Bank, N. J ......‘  5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm, A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass.   5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass.    5,00 ’
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass .’...  2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto      2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, StoningtOn, Conn  2,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  3,00 ^
Jas. Lawrence, ditto     3,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111  2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio.........  10,00
C. R. Brooklyn, N. Y.    2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis.     2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,Q0
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y    10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich.  2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y  2,00
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn  5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y   2,00
W. M. C., Philadelphia, Pa     5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass  2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y.     2,00.
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00 '
Levi P. Benjamin. Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther R. Ames, Worcester, Mass   . 2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La  3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey     2,00
Mrs. M. A. E. Green, W. Winfield, N.Y  5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y  2,00
Robert Rutherford, Rochester, N.Y  . 5,00
From One who Hates Persecution    10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass    2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento," Cal ;    10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Rosa, Cal.     2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass  2,00
James S. Draper, Wayland....  2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass.'..;      5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
Mrs. Lavelette   1......  5,00
Sundry persons     16;13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H.   2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich.    5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass  2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass  5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,00
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Religious Freedom, Dalton, Pa  2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J      2,00
Sums under two dels. (198 subscribers)  184,00
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers .. intorthe phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles, in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion. ’try'again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be ho interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or. six. individuals, about
the same number of each; sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. ' Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for . a few seconds doe? no
harm, but when one of the sitters; breaks the circle by leading
the table it sometimes, but'not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pepcils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. , Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them isrre-
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?”, When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will rapidly develops.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the lollowing:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices; entraneement;
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions; impressioas;
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDEN¬
TICAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. .1.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: OSWALD Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
