AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 126.—(Vol. VI.—No. 4.) LONDON: JANUARY 22j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(fTontems.
The Higher Education of Daily NewspapeijrEditors  37
Sin    ...    ... ... ...    38
Appearance of Materialised Spirits. By William H. Harrison   41
Unreliable Experiments at the Royal Institution... ---   42
Mr. Voysey on Immortality   ... ... ... '  43
Spirit Teachings, No. 26     ...      43
The Mediumship of the Emperor Vespasian. By St. George.W. Stock,
B.A. (Oxon)        ... ..: ... ... 45
A Trance Address by Mrs. Tappan  46
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism   48
ParagraphsMaterialised Spirit Hands   ;.. 48
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 <$- 26 Viet, cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FOEM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
• Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murrav, Bart. (Chairman),- Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., 0. N. 0. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq , Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es ■ R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
.SoZiafors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffln, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffln).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
sw
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
“ A. B.” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
&
1000
500
250
100
£, s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1’ 10 0
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0-6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.’’ Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
“ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 0
3 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTQN,
' 12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by carefu 1
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road. Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the . Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application. .
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OP CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
The first will take place on the 3rd February, 1875, at THE CAVENDISH
ROOMS, 71, Mortimer-street, Oxford-street, W.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of-spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To lie obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Commencement of the Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OP MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can he obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
FPARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,-Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
• Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on'Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept 1
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author giyes some
important facts connected with the early movement, in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave-Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 22, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers foe 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. 'William Meredith,
Mr. G-. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Eiece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for. the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East lohdon spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at S.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
mo THE READERS OE “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
NIMAL MAGNETISM AND MAGNETIC LUCID
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,’’ and “ Lyrics and Bucolics,’’ &e. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRA Y,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid fo r on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
PIRITUALISM AND REFORM. ‘ ‘ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, MaSs.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Tear, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &o., &o. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 63, Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E, J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—/See Advertisement.
A a discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths Of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
LECTURES by the following gentleman, will be delivered
at above address as follows:—:-
On Wednesday, January 13tb, Mr. Joseph Cartwright will deliver a
lecture entitled, “ Spiritualism, and the Rev. J. May of Saltash.”
On Wednesday, January 20th, Mr. Joseph Freeman will deliver a lecture
entitled, “ Utility of Spiritualism.”
On Wednesday, January 27th, Mr. C. W. Pearce will deliver a lecture
entitled,
On Wednesday, February 3rd, Mr. James Bums, of 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.C., will deliver a lecture entitled, “Spiritual and Progressive
Thought in the Writings of Robert Burns,” illustrated by readings of-his
poetry in the Scottish Dialect.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
IVTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the NINTH
HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEETING of this Association will
be holden at the ROOMS, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., on
THURSDAY EVENING NEXT, the 28th January, 1875, at .8 o’clock pre¬
cisely. The following business to be transacted:—
1. To receive the report of the council and balance sheet, for the half year
ended 31st December, 1874.
2. Election of Officers for the current half-year.
3. To discuss such motions of which notice has been given to the
Honorary Secretary prior to the 28th January,, 1875.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Sec.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
21st January, 1875,
w
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simfkin, Marshall & Co.
Mesmerism, electro-biology, fascination.
How to produce sleep upon any person with certainty. Why do
Mesmerists fail ? &e. M. Rigg, Teacher of Mesmerism, &c., by post or ap¬
pointment. How to produce all those curious stage phenomena, he can
teach efficiently by post.
M. Rigg, practical mesmerist, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.C.
Advice in all cases of disease. Pamphlet, &e., gratis, by post, Id.
stamp.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smaljbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
' Established 1842.
VOJLUjWE £IX. j^UJVIBE^ FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 22nd, 1875.
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'■The Spiritualist" in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
T%e Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ % Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street. ■
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
jjl E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—-b, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF DAILY NEWS¬
PAPER EDITORS.
Of J all the intelligent critics who know little or
nothing about Spiritualism, but speak about it with
that ease which characterises those who assume their
facts as fast as they are required, daily newspaper
editors have the most influence, and they make such a
stupendous noise with the mental gongs under their
control, that the most philosophical cannot help listen¬
ing to the din with a species of awe. True, they
know little or nothing about science, and make palpable
mistakes when they attempt to deal with it, as the
Council of the British Association can abundantly
testify, still the appearance of possessing critical powers
is imposing, just as a certain halo of authority is con¬
nected with the appearance of the clown when he'
walks the stage clad in the coat and helmet of the
policeman, but with his bag breeches and brilliantly
coloured face revealing the true nature of the mortal
within.
The question of the more rapid and cheap dissemina¬
tion of knowledge is one in which Spiritualists are
deeply interested, in common with all others who
desire the promotion of the civilisation of the race;
and the greatest impediment to increasing the power
of the printing press, by getting three t imes more
news upon a sheet of paper of given size than is done
now, is the want of knowledge of daily newspaper
editors on the subject. The idea of using phonetic
spelling or phonetic type they look upon as an imprac¬
ticable vision, yet no reform in typography can be
effected until the daily papers by mutual agreement
determine to bring it about by the slow introduction of
new letters—say one letter every three months. If
smaller journals tried to effect the reform, most of the
public would not know the meaning thereof, and would
look upon their pages as eccentric, hence all improve¬
ment in typography awaits the time when daily news¬
paper proprietors shall band together to take up the
subject. There is in Spiritualism at the present time
seven or eight times more literary matter of good quality
than can be published, and perhaps the same is the
case in connection with other vigorous public move¬
ments, yet one of the greatest impediments to the dis¬
semination of existing accumulated knowledge is the
enormous waste of space and paper in newspapers and
books, caused by the unwise shape of the letters of the
present alphabet. They were arbitrarily designed by
the Phoenicians in primitive times, and roughly repre¬
sented objects common about farms. The letter A was
originally a rough representation of the
Ihead of a cow as shown in the first
figure in the accompanying cut; in
r -process of time the cow’s head was
1 turned round and made to point to
heaven, as shown in the second, that position being
the most convenient. Ever since it was so placed, no
further attempts have been made to economise space.
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 22, 1875.
- ■    " * ' ,   ; 1 =   '1
nor can there be until the daily newspapers unite to
gradually introduce letters of better form.
As an example of the immense power which would
be added to the press were letters formed upon rational
principles, we will leave the phonetic system out of the
question, and deal only with the simpler matter of
altering the shape of the letters of the alphabet. Why
should the letter “ W ” be entitled to a shape which
takes up so much more space than the letter “ I ” ? A
straight stroke, with a projection on one side only,
will take up no more space than the letter “ I ” with
its projections on two sides. In the following cut the
first group of six new letters have projections on one
side only. By altering the shape of the projections, as
shown in each letter of the next group, six other
letters may be formed by varying as before the position
of each projection ; and further varieties may be pro¬
duced by the use of thin as well as thick strokes, as
shown in the last group. Thus it is plain that some
hundreds of letters may be designed, each of which
shall occupy no more space than the letter “ I.” To
show the economy which would result, here are two
lines, the one composed of “ I’s” and the other
of “ W’s ” :—
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
There are 65 “ I’s ” in the preceding lines, and 27
“ W’s,” or 2% times as many of the former as of the
latter. Considering then that no letter need occupy
more space than “I” it is evident that an enormous
economy is possible, and that millions of tons of paper
are wasted in this country every year, to afford room
for letters of irrational shape. The daily newspapers
alone can bring about a slow reform in this matter,
and the civilisation of the world is considerably retarded
until their managers reach the state of education
necessary to see and act upon the principles here
set forth, although that state they must of necessity
reach sooner or later.
After the shape of letters has been improved, the
phonetic principle will have to be adopted, and long
ages hence, when the public are educated up to
the point, a new and shorter language will have to be
invented. Why should any word be more than one or
two syllables in length, thereby wasting time and
money in speaking, writing, and printing? At present,
men can speak faster than their listeners can think, but
as the race grows more nervous and more sensitive, the
receptive powers of the mind will be quickened, so that
the advantage of the abolition of all arbitrary language
will be greater in making oral communications than at
present.
In criticising critics of this ilk—in considering the
education of daily newspaper editors—innumerable
fruitful themes are revealed, indeed so much “ ile ”
is struck, that the greater part of the subject
must be left untouched. Shall we inquire why
whole columns of the daily journals are filled with
details relating to horses and women of bad character,
while the editors appear to be unable to deal with
the problem in the consideration of which Mr. John
Stuart Mill passed the last years of his life, of
our agricultural districts having been in course of
depopulation of their labourers for many long years?
Shall we speak of the steady decline in the prosperity
of rural towns, of new blood being supplied to our
large towns from the country by a debased peasantry,
steeped in ignorance and vice, instead of being re¬
novated from an independent and vigorous yeomanry ?
Shall we speak of the gradual physical deterioration of
the dwellers in great cities?*—of the £200,000,000
of English money sent abroad annually for foreign
food and products connected therewith, which might
for the most part be grown at home under a natural
and rational system of land tenures ?f Shall we ask
why our newspaper teachers print whole columns of
parliamentary speeches bristling with mere party and
personal matters which the public do not read, while
'the population sickens, while our lunatic asylums are
full, while paupers swarm in the land, while in pro¬
fessional and mercantile life, unnaturally keen com¬
petition prevails, all having their roots in the legislative
cause already mentioned? Shall we inquire why,
when coal is supplied at exorbitant prices to the poor
of towns in wintry weather, the daily papers cannot
explain that in common household grates three parts
of the heat escapes up the chimney, and point out
simple means whereby the waste would be saved, and
the cost of warmth thereby reduced to less than half
its present price ? Why should great social subjects
be thrust aside because they are not understood, or
inconvenient to handle, while the public are regaled
with editorial articles on post-cards, new bonnets, the
Government of the Cannibal Islands, and with some
thousands of columns about the fortunes of a fat man
now in gaol ?
The subjects just mooted must be left to other pens,
for they are more or less foreign to Spiritualism, although
not to the present task of examining the nature of a power
which exerts a strong influence in spreading either re¬
liable or unreliable information about the attempts
which the spirits of the departed are now making to
communicate with me*n. Parliament might well take
up this subject of the education of daily newspaper
editors, sincey their influence is so great, and consider
whether some compulsory provisions should not be in¬
serted in the Education Act for their benefit, supposing
it should be thought that the new pupils would not be
too troublesome to the School Boards.
BIN.t ,
It does not require any depth of spiritual knowledge
to recognise the curse of sin, for the sorrows which
follow quickly in its train are easily to be traced to
their true source. Thoughtful men are unceasingly
striving to account for the existence of this H blot on
the face of God’s creation,” but the vast majority are
content to leave the enigma unsolved; to regard it as a
matter beyond their comprehension, an inexplicable and
unmitigated evil.
There are, indeed, many things connected with the
destinies of the human race, which are palpable enough
to the senses as existent, but which, as to their pur¬
pose, reason declares that it is futile to speculate.
But is “Sin” a subject which can rightly be in¬
cluded in this category ?
*! Statistical information on this point was once collected by Dr. Beddoe
and published by the Anthropological Institute.
t Statistical information on this point will be found in the Brighton Daily
News of last Monday week.
t Given through the mediumship of a gentleman who does not wish his
name to be published.—Ed.
Jan. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
We think not, for the misery that it causes is so
stupendous that man cannot choose but?ponder on the
mysteries it involves.
Starting upon the assumption that Sin is an unmiti¬
gated evil, men have formed certain views with respect
to its origin which they are unable to reconcile with
the Omnipotence and Love of God, and as a clumsy
solution of their difficulty have devised a “ Creator of
Evil,” and to him ascribed the “ fall of man,” and the
miseries consequent thereon.
If, however, Sin be the work of the Devil, and not
a beneficent means to some great end instituted by the
Almighty, then it becomes at once a standing reproach
to Him. All the misery, and pain, and death under
which the world lies writhing must be the result either
of His want of power, or of His insensibility to your
. sufferings.
How, upon what ground have men adopted a belief
which, carried to its true conclusions* must involve so
awful an assumption ? Because,'forsooth, they read in
certain ancient records, which they reverence as divine,
a strange, irrational account of what is called the “ fall
of man,” and which, without examination, they accept
as infallibly true.
Hot one man in ten thousand who thus abjures the
use of his own intelligence could give you a sound
reason for his belief, for inquiry is hemmed in on every
side. The pious, who regard with horror any criticism
of these “ Scriptural Truths,” are assisted by the idle¬
ness, ignorance, and carelessness of the mass of man¬
kind, and hitherto they have preserved their gloomy
stronghold comparatively intact. But they have had
their day. Of the origin of sin we have nothing to
tell you, nor does it concern us much to inquire into
it; to do so would be to wander into the realms of
vague speculation, and our labour could be productive
of naught but unsupported surmises. Suffice it to say
that we believe it to be coeval with good.
Let us now consider—
1st. What is Sin ?
2ndly. What knowledge and appreciation of its true
nature is possessed by man ?
3rdly. What effect it had upon the spiritual and
material welfare of man ?
4thly. What capability of resistance thereto is in¬
herent in the nature of man ?
I.—In the first place, then, “What is Sin?”
We think it unnecessary to use many words in
answer to this query, for most minds will be satisfied
with the broad definition that it is the deliberate pre¬
ference by man of his own will as opposed to that of
his Creator; in other words, a wilful violation of the
Divine moral sense bestowed upon every man in
greater or less degree, and- which, for want of a better
word, you call “ conscience.”
We use the words “in greater or less degree,” ad¬
visedly, because experience forces the expression upon
us. Even among children, before time has robbed
them of their innocence, you will find some few more
highly gifted with this moral sense than their fellows.
We shall touch again on this subject; but it is one
which you must not hope at present can be fully
explained to you. This difficulty, which meets us at
the outset of our inquiry, is most valuable, as demon¬
strating that sin must be a relative, not a positive fact,
dependent for its guilt entirely upon the moral con¬
sciousness of the sinner; for to blame the errors of an
ignorant man in the same terms as would be justly
employed towards one of higher intelligence, is mani¬
festly irrational. *
II. —We will pass at once to our second query,
“ What knowledge and appreciation of the true nature
of sin is possessed by man ?” Men would seem to have
brought but little intelligence to bear upon this point,
for we find them endeavouring by every device of
punishment to suppress the sins of violence and dis¬
honesty, and ignoring complacently the more subtle
sins of the inner man. We confess, however, that
with the limited knowledge you possess, the error is
but natural. It is true, indeed, that violence and the
right of the strongest would render life unendurable
were they left without repression; but whilst we
acknowledge the necessity of vigorous laws to this end,
we condemn the moral blindness which invests such
forms of vice with exaggerated importance, and fails
to perceive the greater danger to the community of
such sins as selfishness, untruthfulness, want of charity,
and pride. The grosser forms of crime are, for the
most part, the result of ignorance ; they are. the endea¬
vours of an animal nature, uncontrolled by spiritual
knowledge, to gratify its wants and passions, and civi¬
lisation, in self-defence, has by her laws rendered im¬
possible any wide-spread outbreak of such violence.
Such forms of sin must vanish before the spread of
education as ^pow before the sun. But mere know¬
ledge is, alas! powerless to effect a change in the inner
man.
History can show you how the highest civilisation is
compatible with the vilest moral corruption; and a
higher than mere intellectual education is needed to
dispel the spiritual ignorance of mankind. Ere life on
this earth can be aught but a martyrdom, you must
learn to speak the truth, though it be humiliating to
utter, and ruinous to your own interests; to forego an
advantage that your less fortunate brother may profit
thereby; to think kindly of the erring; to lend an
eager assistance to the fallen; to count no man less
beloved of God than yourself: in short, to walk through
life with but one object in your heart, viz., to improve
the lot and to raise the moral standard of your fellow-
men.
When such wisdom dawns upon men they will begin
to realise that a neglected duty may be more disastrous
to the community than a murder, and wise counsels
unregarded than the theft of much treasure.
As we have observed above, Sin is a relative, not a
positive fact; it is the mental capacity, the health, the
motive. The education and surroundings must deter¬
mine the extent of guilt which the commission of a
given sin will entail.- This consideration should teach
you how utterly incompetent you are to sit in judg¬
ment on your fellows, for no analysis of your own
faults, however profound, will enlighten you in relation
to the sin of others. Although we conclude that man’s
appreciation of the true nature of sin must thus always
remain imperfect, we consider you are thus in no way
relieved from the duty of- forming upon the subject the
best judgment that lies within your power.
III. —We will now turn to our third query—“ What
effect has sin upon the spiritual and material welfare
of man ? ”
Yiewed by the light of human wisdom the prospect
is indeed a gloomy one; but a consideration of the
subject will show you that, even on this head, there is
no ground for despondency.
Our object will be to show you that, although man
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 22, 1875.
is grievously injured, both as to his spiritual and mate¬
rial welfare, by the inevitable penalty attaching to his
misdeeds, it is, nevertheless, not difficult to discern
throughout evidences of Divine love and purpose.
First as regards his spiritual welfare :—
We assume that you believe in a continued existence
of the spirit after its separation from the body, and
that you are sensible that such an existence would be
uninviting, nay, unendurable, unless accompanied by
an ever-increasing capacity for the acquirement of
knowledge. We are, of course, unable to prove to you
that such is the case, but, although it may be called an
assumption, it is inseparable from the equal assumption
of a future existence.
Our point is, that the system of education essential
to this progression ig commenced during earth-life, for
you there learn that there are certain states or condi¬
tions of the human mind which are conducive to hap¬
piness, and others which are inevitably productive of
the reverse. The condition of mind which this expe¬
rience shows to be conducive to happiness finds its
expression in certain actions and qualities which men
intuitively love, and the possession of which in others
they will reverence, albeit themselves of opposite dis¬
positions. The state of mind which tends to suffering
is known, in like manner, by qualities and actions
which men intuitively hate, and which they will
condemn and despise in others, and even when ema¬
nating from themselves. These qualities and actions
we will, for brevity’s sake, call in the one case
“Virtue,” and in the'other “Sin.” “Virtue” we
will typify by Love, and “ Sin ” by the converse, Hate.
What room, we ask, could be found for the active
exercise of Love in its many forms of tenderness, pity,
forgiveness of injury, gentleness, and patience, in a
world where hate, as displayed by wrath, cruelty,
revenge and clamour, did not exist?.
The fact is that no quality of mind can be appre¬
ciable by the human understanding, and thus useful
for instruction, unless demonstrated and explained by
some experience of its converse.
Thus, to speak in terms of approbation of self-re¬
straint in a society where self-indulgence was a sin
unknown, and which no intuitive sense of evil had in
the smallest degree revealed, would be to preach in an
unknown tongue, conveying to the hearers no idea
which could instruct or improve them. To enlarge
upon this argument is unnecessary. We only desire to
demonstrate to you that man’s appreciation of virtue
is alone rendered possible by the co-existence of sin.
This appreciation, however, this knowledge of good and
evil, is insufficient for man’s guidance. The mere fact
of any proposition being in itself indisputably true can
lend to it no inherent attractiveness, and it will fail to
exercise any general influence upon the conduct of
mankind until they are convinced that their happiness
is involved in a due regard of the lessons it conveys;
and we wish you to realise that the main inducement
to man deliberately to select virtue in preference to sin,
is the conviction which earth-life will bring him that
true happiness is incompatible with the latter. There
are few moments in a man’s life when he is not gather-
. ing this precious experience.
It may be said, “ Why has the Almighty been pleased
thus to create man ; why not in His omnipotence have
placed him at once on a more advanced plane of exist¬
ence, and endowed him with a morality which would
have rendered unnecessary this discipline of suffering ?”
It would be easy to answer that such was the will of
God, but we wish your reason to be satisfied that His
provisions are, in this," as in all things, beneficent, and
will therefore point out to you one or two considerations
which should lead you to this conclusion—
1. We believe it to be God’s will that man should
pursue a progressive path of moral and intellectual
improvement, and, further, that he should take no mean
part in his own progress and education.
2. That to teach him a lofty morality ere he had
mastered the first principles for himself would be a
violation of this system of education.
Finally, the objection is the result of ignorance ; for
were it possible that a man should suddenly attain a
moral elevation tenfold greater than it has entered into
your imagination to conceive, he would be found still
gazing upwards into the immensity of the Divine per¬
fection, still dissatisfied with his mental condition. He
must still find follies tp repent of, and weaknesses to
deplore, and can you imagine that the deep sense of
his own imperfection which this higher light would
reveal to him would be one whit more endurable than
the sufferings of earth-life? As the case'now.stands
with him he is protected by experience against de-.
spondency. If his upward journey be slow, one back¬
ward glance into the valley below will satisfy him that
progress has indeed been made, and fill his spirit with
gratitude and patience.
Such, then, is the effect of sin upon man’s spiritual
nature, not alone a source pf misery and degradation,
but a means of instruction, a revelation of truth, a
merciful correction and a divine consolation.
The effect of sin upon the material happiness of
mankind is most distressing, and it is needless to dwell
on the myriad forms of suffering which it entails.
It has pleased God to attach to each and all of His
laws a penalty which must inevitably follow their
violation; it is therefore self-evident that man’s material
welfare is entirely dependent upon, and commensurate
with, the progress he may have made in the science of
God’s laws; but no suffering which the will of God
inflicts can be purposeless.
To explain to you in a few words our meaning, we
would remind you how violence and insecurity of life
and property have led to the congregation of men for
mutual protection, and how such societies have been
subsequently consolidated into tribes and nations.
How gross oppression has been followed by revolt
and consequent freedom.
How the injustice of the few has led to the formation
of wise laws for the protection of the many, and finally
how priestly tyranny has resulted in comparative
freedom of religious thought.
We give you these instances, not as any complete
exemplification of our meaning, but as finger-posts to
the various roads of thought which lie open to you, and
which you can pursue hereafter at will.
IV.—We have now arrived at our fourth and last
query. “ What capability of resistance to sin is
inherent in the nature of man ? ”
There are few natures which will yield to a tempta¬
tion which they know to be evil, without some show of
resistance, some sense of shame, but this power of
resistance to evil would appear to be very unequally
distributed. It would seem but a simple matter to
some men to live uprightly; they appear to resist with¬
out effort the temptations which assail them, and
to be raised by their natural gifts above the weaknesses
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
Jan. 22, 1875.
common to their fellows. How peacefully they live
and how calmly they can die. What a contrast is
presented hy the lives of others, who, from their very
youth, are the victims of stormy passions and inordi¬
nate appetites. Often enough such men acknowledge
and deplore their infirmities, and some few will combat
them with all the fierce energy of their natures—but in
vain. Whence arises this vast diversity of moral
nature ?
It is often suggested that it may be attributed to
accidents of birth, parentage, education or surroundings,
but although such incidents of man’s career may, and
doubtless do, greatly influence his character, we cannot
accept them as a satisfactory solution of the difficulty,
for what is more common than to find members of the
same family brought up under influences absolutely
identical, displaying tendencies diametrically opposed ?
We can see in this diversity of moral character no
greater difficulty than is presented by the analogous
diversity of talents, opportunities, and worldly position
which fall to the lot of man, and it is practically as far
beyond the control of the individual. You will not
venture to assert that the peasant has, on the ground of
his ignorance, a less happy prospect in the world
to come, than the most accomplished scholar of your
day, and you will be wise if you equally hesitate to
pronounce upon the probable future awaiting the
reckless sinner. God alone can know the peculiarities
and idiosyncrasies of those He has created, and you
may rest assured that no misfortune of temperament or
disposition which perfect wisdom may have allotted to
man, will be permitted to affect his progress in the
mighty future.
The wise and holy Jesus surely grasped this truth
when he said, “ Many that are last shall be first, and
the first last.”
We have thus endeavoured to show you—
m That “Evil” is a standard of excellence, a gauge
without the aid of which you could form no estimate of
what is “ good.”
2. That sin is a relative, not a positive fact,-
depending for its guilt entirely upon circumstances, and
hence, that mankind is by nature incapable of forming
any authoritative judgment upon it.
3. That it is an important part of what we believe
to be the scheme of education laid down for man, and
that the suffering it entails is the experience by which
men learn to shun evil and to seek good.
4. That out of its disastrous consequences, has God
in His love evolved beneficent results, in making them
the stepping-stones to a higher civilization, and the
means by which mutual sympathy and interdependence
are developed among men. Gan you still assert that
sin is an unmitigated evil ?
Mr. W. T. Coles, of Chicago, will occupy the platform at
Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, on Sunday evening next; and
Mr. Wallace, the medium, will address the audience on the
following Sunday, the 31st inst.
Last Sunday evening Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan began
the new series of her weekly trance addresses, at the Caven¬
dish-rooms, Mortimer-street, Eegent-street, London; and this
opening address was of excellent quality.
An local news is kept over till next week, from want of
space, also all correspondence, including several interesting
letters. No further communication has been received from
Mr. Serjeant Cox in continuation of the important pro¬
blems he began to ventilate in the last number of The
Spiritualist.
APPEARANCE OE MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
by wtiham: h. habbison.
Last Saturday night an interesting seance was held
at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-
street, Grosvenor-square, London. The medium was
Miss Showers, and among those who observed the
manifestations were Mrs. Gregory, and her guests.
General Brewster, Mrs. Wiseman, Sir William Fairfax,
Mrs. Showers, Captain James (late of Dover), Captain
Campbell Eraser, Mr. Peele, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr.
Webster Glynes, Mr. Wedgwood, and myself.
During the first part of the seance raps, table motions,
and some of the remarkable voice manifestations which
take place through the mediumship of Miss Showers,
and have been so often recorded, were the chief features.
During the second part of the sitting, one part of the
drawing-room was cut off by a partition and curtains,
so as to form a dark cabinet, wherein Miss Showers
was left by herself, whilst the witnesses sat in the
room outside, in which there was moderate light. Soon
Florence came out a little way for a short time, and
talked to the company; she then retired, and was suc¬
ceeded by Lenore. Temporarily materialised spirits of
this kind, robed in white drapery, and bearing some
resemblance to their mediums, but differing from them
in height and in other particulars, have been severely
tested in the instance of Miss Cook’s mediumship, by
the electrical and other experiments of Mr. Yarley and
Mr. Crookes, and have been authenticated by the testi¬
mony of several respectable people, including that of
Mr. Crookes, who has seen the medium and the spirit
together. In the case of the mediumship of Miss
Showers, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mrs. Corner, Mrs.
Ross-Church (editress of London Society'), and others
have given testimony to the medium. and spirits
possessing separate materialised forms for the time
being. Although I had been present on many occa¬
sions during two or three, years when such tests were
given, I had never been asked inside the cabinet with
any medium to obtain evidence of duplication of
form, until two or three weeks ago, when, as recorded
in these pages, Lenore led me for a few minutes into a
cabinet which had been extemporised in a private house,
and placed .my hand on the beating heart of her en¬
tranced medium, Miss Showers.
Last Saturday she again asked me into the dark
room used as a cabinet, leading me across it to the
further, end, where she said Miss Showers was entranced
upon the sofa. I asked her to place my hand on the
face of Miss Showers. She held my wrist and hand
with both her hands (for I suppose she remembered
that on the last occasion I had thus made sure where
both her hands were), and she brushed my hand over
something warm. I told her that I could not say that
it was a human face, and asked her to leave more of
my hand free, by taking one of hers away and placing
it on my face instead. This she did, and while she
was standing by my left side, with her arm on my
shoulder and one hand on my face, her other hand had
hold of my wrist, and guided my hand twice over a
human face on the sofa near my right knee. The face
was in a horizontal position, looking upwards, and the
top of the head was towards my left hand. I twice
felt the nose, lips, and teeth of a warm, living human
face on that sofa, beyond all mistake whatever.
The philosophy of these manifestations appears to be
that spirits divorced from material conflitions, can by
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
■will-power obtain partial mesmeric control of the body
of a medium, and by means of matter gathered in some
way from the hands and arms of the sensitive, can
produce the materialised ■ hands and arms that for
so many years have been common at spirit circles.
Later still they began to materialise heads and full
forms, but where the drapery comes from and where it
goes to are mysteries not yet solved, although mediums
have been searched before and after materialisation
seances, have been bound with tapes and sealed with
signet rings, have had weak electrical currents passed
through them all through the seances while the indica¬
tions have been read off outside the cabinet on instru¬
ments; in short, they have submitted to all the tests
that men acquainted by observation with the nature
of the facts, could devise.
UNRELIABLE EXPERIMENTS AT THE ROYAL
INSTITUTION.
The circumstance that when men of science advo¬
cate the unpopular subject of Spiritualism in any de¬
gree, their brethren refuse to receive even their experi¬
ments, although no opinions may be attached thereto,
as in the example wherein the British Association for
the Advancement of Science, refused to hear the facts
advanced by Mr. Crookes at Edinburgh, there is reason
for an examination of the foundations upon which such
an assumption of authority is built, especially as the
ignoring of hard facts savours more of the theologian
than of the lover of nature. When, further, unpopular
experiments are even misrepresented, as in the instance
when Dr. Carpenter—one of the chief members of the
Royal Society—told a Chelsea audience that Mr. Crookes
placed a vessel of water at one end of a balance instead
of over the fulcrum, which was the reverse of fact,
and when he severely censured Mr. Crookes for the
alleged mistake, it is all the more the duty of Spirit¬
ualists to examine the unwritten claim to infallibility.
Last Friday night a lecture on Sound was delivered
at the Royal Institution by its guiding star, Professor
Tyndall, who is also president of the British Associa¬
tion ; the chairman on the occasion was Professor
George Busk, who once, it will be remembered, in his
official capacity as president of the Anthropological
Institute, made a violent attack upon Spiritualism,
which was published in the Daily Telegraph and in
these pages. The .attendance last Friday demonstrated
the popularity of the lecturer, for every seat was
occupied by an educated and refined assemblage of
ladies and gentlemen, such as a good evening lecture at
the Royal Institution always draws together, so there
were plenty of witnesses of the experiments to which
attention is about to be called. Among the listeners
present were Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., Mr.
William Spottiswoode, E.R.S., Lady Claud Hamilton,
Sir E. Pollock, the Right Hon. Sir James Hannen,
Lady M. Egerton, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. H. D. Jencken,
Mr. Warren De La Rue, E.R.S., Mr. Fritz Martheze,
Professor Marcet, Colonel Grant, the African explorer,
Sir Kay Shuttleworth, Bart., Mr. C. W. Siemens,
F.R.S., Professor Carey Foster, F.R.S., Mr. John
Browning, F.R. A.S., Professor Abel,F.R.S.,Mr. Francis
Galton, F.R.S., and Professor Frankland, F.R.S.
In the course of the evening Professor Tyndall
exhibited many experiments in which sensitive flames
played an essential part; these flames were fourteen
or sixteen inches long, but shrill sounds, like those
Jan. 22, 1875.
produced by a whistle, caused them to contract to but
six or seven inches in length. At last the lecturer
came to the experiment represented in the accompany-
A
D E
H
ing diagram, in considering which the observer is
supposed to be looking down upon the apparatus on
the lecture table.
A, B, and B* C, were two very large square sheets of
glass, placed between the spectators and the sensitive
flame D, in order to prevent some of the stray currents
of air in the theatre from disturbing the flame. G was
a whistle blown continuously by means of bellows, and
Professor Tyndall pointed out that when he placed a
sheet of glass in the position denoted by the dotted line
F, it cut off those waves of sound from the whistle
which caused the flame D to contract, but when he
took the plate of glass away from I', and placed it at
E, where previously there had been nothing, then the
waves of sound from the whistle contracted the flame.
He said that he and others would have supposed, but
for this experiment, that it would have been easier for
the waves of sound to have passed to the flame when
the sheet of glass was at F than when it was at E.
He forgot that the great sheets of glass A, B, and
B, C, stood all the time in the position shown in the
diagram (which was drawn at the time he made the
experiment), and that when the glass screen was placed
at E the waves of sound were caught at H and else¬
where by the sheet of glass B, C, and reflected directly
upon the sensitive flame; some of the waves thus
reflected upon the other sheet of glass A, B, underwent
a second reflection, causing them to reach the flame D.
To make the matter worse, Professor Tyndall had
exhibited an experiment at the beginning of his lecture,
showing that he could catch waves of sound upon a
sheet of glass, which then reflected them upon a
sensitive flame, and caused the latter to contract.
On studying the diagram and considering the direc¬
tions of the curves of sound, it will be seen that when
the plate of glass was at F, the waves of sound had a
worse chance of reaching the flame D than had
the sheet of glass B, C, been absent, so that the first
part of his experiment was also vitiated, though in a
less degree than the second.
In another experiment he placed the whistle in his
mouth, and when, a small screen was placed close
in front of the whistle, the flame did not contract, but
when he placed the Screen near the flame it did
contract. During this experiment he had one of his
sheets of glass A, B, behind the flame, so that the
waves of sound were playing directly upon it, except
where cut off by the little screen.
Perhaps in his laboratory experiments Professor
Tyndall may have discovered that the sheets of glass
A, B, and B, C, placed exactly as shown in the diagram,
did not practically influence the results shown in his
experiments; if so, he did not give his listeners the
information, although they were entitled to it after he
had shown them that a plate of glass would actually
reflect waves of sound upon a flame, and cause it to
contract. There is also no question that when the
glass screen was at E, reflected waves from B, C, and
Jan. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
A, B, were playing upon the flame and helping it to
contract, so that the experiment was an unscientific
and'not a fair onej if not altogether fallacious.
Mr. George Busk, who presided, made no comment
upon the experiments, but looked as if they gave him
special delight; the same may be said of the large
number of members of the Boyal Society, Royal Insti¬
tution, and British Association present.
In an easy atmosphere of authority like that which
characterises the Royal Institution, unreliable effects
like these have a chance of escaping notice, and of
being publicly submitted to intelligent observers ; but
in unpopular Spiritualism the breeze of criticism from
outside is so persistently keen as to make experi¬
mentalists especially cautious. Consequently, the man¬
agers of the Royal Institution might do well to select a
man educated in the more severe and bracing school of
Spiritualism to examine all their experiments before
they are submitted to their audiences, and to certify
whether they are reliable or otherwise. We have put
the present matter right for them, but cannot under¬
take to do so always; besides, it would be better for
the Institution were glaring mistakes in its scientific
experiments pointed out before instead of after submis¬
sion to the public. That Professor Tyndall himself
should have made the mistakes herein recorded is not a
matter of pleasure, for he is very popular among Spirit¬
ualists, his address at Belfast having so tended to pro¬
mote healthy free-thought on religious subjects. His
abuse of Spiritualism in it was as harmless as if he had
ridiculed the rotation of the earth, and has served the
useful purpose of authoritatively defining to posterity
his position in regard to some of the most wonderful
scientific facts of modern times—facts which alone tend
to practically explain the chief problems which he
mooted in his presidential address, and admitted to be
at present insoluble. In delivering that address he
was in the position of a man who had closed the only
window in the dark, cold, useful cellar of materialism,
and boasted that he had done so, while arguing to
those around him in his darksome crypt that there was
no evidence of a sun in the heavens.
MR. YOYSEY ON IMMORTALITY.
Last Sunday night the Rev. Mr. Yoysey preached on Religion
and Science, at the Unitarian Church, Stoke Newington-
green. This church is one of the oldest belonging to the
Unitarian denomination in this country, and in the past
generation numbered among its supporters Samuel Rogers, the
poet; Mrs. Barbauld; and Mr. Richard Price, F.R.S., the
originator of life insurance.
During the first part of the service, the Rev. J. D. Hirst
Smyth officiated. The first hymn sung, written by Dr. Watts,
set forth the testimony to the existence of an All-wise
Creator, given by the phenomena of nature. Of the general
tenor of the hymn the following verse is an example :—
“ In native white and red,
The rose and lily stand;
And free from pride their beauties spread,
To show Thy skilful hand.” j •
The Rev. Charles Voysey took for his text Job ii. 7, “ Canst
thou by searching find out God? ” He said that he in¬
tended to consider the presidential address given to the
British Association at Belfast by Professor Tyndall, whom it
would be bad taste either to specially praise or blame, although
the more he read his address the more he admired it; he also
felt that the words of every speaker had a claim on the
enlightened world, in proportion to his knowledge and his up¬
rightness. Professor Tyndall’s chief points were,—1. That
there is no necessity for a Creator in the popular sense of the
term. 2. There is no evidence of a soul vin man as popularly
understood, under the figure of an operator using a machine.
3. There is no proof of personal immortality. All these three
points were merely negative conclusions, and not put forward
as dogmas. Changes in the position of molecules explained all
the physical changes in nature, and placed creative jumps out
of the question. Thus science did not say that there was no
God, but that there was not a God constantly interfering with
matter ; and why should any religiously-minded man object to
that position ? When Darwinianism arose, he (Mr. Voysey)
considered it to be full of wonder .and interest; for even if
man were descended from a snail, there was no honour or
dishonour in what a man came from, but in what he was. In
reference to Professor Tyndall’s argument that there was no
evidence of the independent existence of the soul, and that
the soul might only be the product of the living brain, that
was no proof that it was not immortal, and even within the
human body there were traces of a force which eluded the
grasp of man; consciousness of selfhood was a reality while
it lasted, and could not be blotted out of human con¬
ception merely because it could not be weighed in
scales or seized with forceps. He could not help feeling that
there was some identity of nature, some connecting link
between himself and his God, and that when he thought
invisible thoughts, and experienced imponderable emotions,
there was One in sympathy with him, One who responded to
his feelings, yet at the same time he fully accepted the con¬
clusion of Herbert Spencer, that his feelings were the results
of the accumulated emotions of his ancestors. He admitted
that the belief in a future state was founded only on imagina¬
tion and hope, also that the existence of neither God nor Soul
could be demonstrated by scientific nor any other means, yet
he believed in both. He then spoke of the concessions which
science made to religion, as set forth in Professor Tyndall’s
address, but he did not see that it was imperative that some
of the concessions should have been granted. He thought
the general tenor of the Belfast address to be a severe blow at
the atheism of the day, and at the coverings with which
theologians had enwrapped true religion; long ago he had
preached against that dread of science common to the theolo¬
gical mind, for all the revelations of science would but con¬
duce to the glory of God, and save mankind from the pitfalls
of ignorance and superstition. Religion had nothing to fear
from science so long as science spoke the truth, and there
were unquenchable flames in the emotional nature of man,
which the understanding could never satisfy.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXVI.
As I attempted to put other objections, many of which
occurred to me, I was stopped.
We have something to say by way of summing up
what has already been spoken. You do not sufficiently
grasp the fact that religion has a very scanty hold on
the mass of mankind; nor do you understand the
adaptability of what we say to the needs and aspira¬
tions of mankind. Or perhaps it is necessary that you
be reminded of what you cannot see clearly in your
present, state, and in the midst of your present associa¬
tions. You cannot see as we see the carelessness that
has crept over men as to the future state. Those who
have thought about their future condition have come to
know that they can find out nothing about it except
that the prevalent notions are vague, foolish, contra¬
dictory, and unsatisfying. Their reasoning faculties
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable stances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains througheut the same.—Ed.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 22, 1875.
convince them that the Revelation of God which they
are taught to believe to be of plenary inspiration,-con¬
tains plain marks of human adulteration; that it will
not stand the test of sifting such as is applied to works
professedly of human origin; and that the priestly
fiction that reason is no measure of revelation, that it
must be left behind upon the threshold of inquiry, and
give place to faith, is a cunningly-planned means of
preventing man from discovering the errors and con¬
tradictions which throng the pages of that infallible
guide which is forced upon him. Those who use the
touchstone of reason discover them readily enough:
those who do not, betake themselves to the refuge of
faith, and become blind devotees, fanatical, bigoted,
and irrational; conformed to a groove in which they
have been educated, and from which they have not
broken loose simply beqause they have not dared to
think.
It would be hard for man to devise a means of
cramping the mind and dwarfing the spirit more com¬
plete than this persuading a man that he must not
think about matters of. religion. It is one which
paralyses all freedom of thought, and renders it almost
impossible for the soul to rise. The spirit is condemned
to a hereditary religion, whether suited or not to its
wants. It is absolutely without choice as to that which
is the food of its real life. That which may have
suited a far off ancestor, may be quite unsuited to a
struggling spirit that lives in other times from those in
which such ideas had force and vitality. And so the
spirit’s vital nourishment is made a question of birth
and locality. It is a question over which they can
exercise no personal control, whether they are to be
Christian, Mahommedan, or, as ye say, heathen;
whether their God is to be the Great Spirit of the Red
Indian, or the fetish of the savage; whether his pro¬
phet be Christ, or Mahomet, or Confucius; in short,
whether their notion of religion be that prevalent in
east, west, north, or south; for in all quarters men
have evolved for themselves a theology which they
teach their children as of binding force, as supremely
necessary for salvation.
It is important that you ponder well this matter.
The assumption that any one religion, which may
commend itself to any one race, in any portion of your
globe, has a monopoly of Divine Truth, is a human
fiction, born of man’s vanity and pride. There is no
such monopoly of truth in any system of theology which
flourishes or has flourished among men. Each is, in
its degree, imperfect: each has its points of truth
adapted to the wants of those to whom it was given, or
by whom it was evolved. Each has its errors: and
none can. be commended to those whose habits of
thought and whose spiritual necessities are different, as
being the spiritual food which God has given to man.
It is but human frailty to fancy such a thing. Man
likes to believe that he is the exclusive possessor of
some germ of truth. We smile as we see him hugging
himself in the delusion, congratulating himself on the
fancied possession, and persuading himself that ’ it is
necessary for him to send missionaries far and wide, to
bear his nostrum to other lands and other peoples, who
do but laugh at his pretensions and deride his claims.
-It is, indeed, supremely marvellous to us that your
wise men have been and are unable to see that the ray
of truth which has shone even unto them, and which
they have done their best to obscure, is but one out of
many which have been shed by the Sun of Truth on
your world. Divine Truth is too clear a light to be
tolerated by human eyes. It must be tempered by an
earthly medium, conveyed through a human vehicle,
and darkened somewhat lest it blind the unaccustomed
eye. Only when the body of earth is cast aside, and
the spirit soars to higher planes, can it afford to dis¬
pense with the interposing medium which has dulled
the brightness of the heavenly light.
All races of men have had a beam of this light
amongst them. They have received it as best they
might, have fostered it or dimmed it according to their
development, and have in the end adapted' to their dif¬
ferent wants that which they were able to receive.
None has reason to vaunt itself in exclusive possession,
or to make futile efforts to force on others its own view
of truth. So long as,'your world has endured, so long
has it been true that the Brahmin, the Mahommedan,
the Jew, and the Christian has had his peculiar light,
which he has considered to be his special heritage from
heaven. And, as if to make the fallacy more con¬
spicuous, that Church which claims to itself an exclu¬
sive possession of Divine Truth, and deems it right to
carry the lamp throughout all lands, is most conspicuous
for its own manifold divisions. Christendom’s divi¬
sions, the incoherent fragments into which the Church
of Christ is rent, the frenzied bitterness with which
each assails other for the pure love of God; these are
the best answers to the foolish pretension that Chris¬
tianity possesses a monopoly of Divine Truth.
But the days are approaching when a new ray of
light shall be shed on this mist of human ignorance.
This geographical sectarianism shall give place before
the enlightenment caused by the spread of the New
Revelation, for which mankind is riper than you think.
They shall be made to see that each system of
religion, is a ray of truth from the Central Sun, dimmed,
indeed, by man’s ignorance, but having within it a
germ of vital truth. Each must see the truth in his
neighbour’s belief, and learn that best of lessons, to
dwell on the good rather than on the evil; to recognise
the Divine even through human error, and to acknow¬
ledge the godlike even in that which has not com¬
mended itself to his own wants hitherto. The time
draws nigh when the sublime truths which we are
commissioned to proclaim, rational and noble as they
are, when viewed from the standpoint of reason, shall
wipe away from the face of God’s earth the sectarian
jealousy and theological bitterness, the anger and ill-
will, the rancour and Pharisaic pride which have dis¬
graced the name of religion, and have rendered the¬
ology a byeword amongst men. Alas! alas! that
that divine science which should tell man of the
nature of his God, and in telling should breathe into
his soul somewhat of that divine love which emanates
from Deity; alas! that it j should have become the
battle-ground for sects and parties, the arid plain
where the pettiest prejudices and the meanest passions
may be aired, the barren, cheerless waste, where man
may most surely demonstrate his own ignorance of his
God, about whose nature and operations he so bitterly
disputes!
Theology! it is a by-word even amongst you. You
know how, in the ponderous volumes which contain the
records of man’s ignorance about his God, may be found
the bitterest invective, the most unchristian bitterness,
the most unblushing misrepresentation. Theology! it
has been the excuse for quenching every holiest in¬
stinct, for turning the hand of the foeman against
Jan. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
kindred and friends, for burning and torturing and
rending the bodies of the saintliest of mankind, for
exiling and ostracising those whom the world should
have delighted to honour, for subverting man’s best
instincts and quenching his most natural affections.
Aye, and it is still the arena in which man’s basest
passions vaunt themselves, stalking with head erect
and brazen front over all that dares to separate itself
from the stereotyped rule. “ Avaunt! there is no room
for reason where theology holds sway.” It is still the
cause for most that may cause true men to blush, for
in its stifling atmosphere free thought gasps, and man
becomes an unreasoning puppet.
To such base ends has man degraded the science
which should teach him of his God.
"We tell you, friend, that the end draws nigh. It
shall not be always so. As it was in the days which
preceded the coming of the Son of Man, as it has been
in the midnight hours which precede every day-dawn
from on high, so it is now. The night of ignorance is
fast passing away. The shackles which priestcraft has
hung around struggling souls shall be knocked off;
and in place of fanatical folly, and ignorant Pharisaism,
and misty speculation, you shall have a reasonable
religion and a Divine Faith. You shall have richer
views of God, truer notions of your duty and’destiny;
you shall know that they whom you call dead are
alive amongst you; living, as they lived on earth, only
more really; ministering to you with undiminished
love; animated in their unwearying intercourse with
the same affection which they bore to you whilst they
were yet incarned.
It was said of the Christ that he brought life and
immortality to light. It is true in a wider sense than
the writer meant. The outcome of the Revelation of
Christ, which is only now beginning to be seen amongst
men, is in its truest, sense the abolition of death, the
demonstration of immortality. In that great truth—
man never dies, cannot die, however he may wish it—in
that great truth rests the key to the future. The im¬
mortality of man, held not as an article of faith, a
clause in a creed, but as a piece of personal knowledge
and individual experience, this is the key-note of the
religion of the future. In its trail come all the grand
truths we teach, all the noblest conceptions of duty,
the grandest views of destiny, the truest realisations of
life.
You cannot grasp them now. They daze and be¬
wilder your spirit, unaccustomed to such a glare. But,
mark well, friend, brief space shall pass before you re¬
cognise in our words the lineaments of truth, the as¬
pect of the divine. + Impeeatob.
THE MEDIUM SHIP OF THE EMPEROR VESPASIAN.
BY ST. GEOEGE W. STOCK, B.A. (OXOX).
Some so-called miraculous occurrences, of a kind per¬
fectly intelligible, or rather, I should say, perfectly familiar
to Spiritualists, are recorded in the life of the Roman
Emperor, Vespasian. The invisibles seem to have in¬
terested themselves in placing him on the throne of the
Roman world. While still Emperor more in name than
reality, and insecure in his new position, the usurper
lacked that “ divinity which doth hedge a king: ” but,
as a set-off against this defect, a prestige of no ordinary
kind was supplied to him by his being used on a very
public occasion as a healing medium. The following is
the account of this as well as another curious incident,
given by the historian Tacitus :—
During the months, in which Vespasian was waiting at
Alexandria for the set period of the summer breezes, when he
would be sure of a prosperous voyage, many miracles took
place, which were thought to showthe favour of Heaven, and a
special regard of the divine powers for Vespasian.
One of the common people of Alexandria, who was known
to have a disease of the eyes, threw himself at the feet of
Vespasian, imploring him with tears to heal his blindness.
This was done by the advice of the God Serapis, an object of
special worship among this superstitious race. The suppliant
prayed the Emperor to condescend to wet his cheeks and eye¬
balls with his spittle. Another man who was diseased in his
hand, was prompted by the same God to entreat that he
might be trodden under Csesar’s foot. Vespasian at first
received them with ridicule and disdain. Finding them
urgent, he was divided between dread of the imputation of
vanity and hopes of success inspired by the earnestness of the
suppliants backed by the voices of flatterers. Finally he
called upon his physicians to pronounce whether such cases
of blindness and disease could be overcome by human aid.
The physicians touched on more points than one in their
reply. In the former patient, they said, the sight was not
irrevocably gone, and might be restored if the obstacles were
got rid of ; in the latter the diseased joints might be made
sound again, if a healing force were applied. Perhaps it was
the pleasure of the Gods to effect this, and the Emperor had
been chosen to the divine office. Lastly, if the remedy were
successful, the glory would be Csesar’s; whereas if it failed,
the ridicule would fall on the poor wretches themselves. So
Vespasian thinking that his fortune could carry all before it,
and filled with confidence in himself, assumed a joyous look,
and performed what was asked of him, amid the excitement of
the crowd of bystanders. Immediately the hand was restored
to use, and the blind man saw again the light of day. Both
facts are still related by the persons present, now that all
motive for falsehood is gone.
Vespasian, hereupon, felt a strong desire to visit the seat of
the deity, in order to consult him upon affairs of state.
Having previously issued orders that all persons should be
excluded from the temple, he entered it himself, and was
intently occupied in prayer when he caught sight behind him
of one of the chief men among the Egyptians, by name
Basilides, whom he knew to be lying sick at a distance of
several days journey from Alexandria. He inquired of the
priests whether Basilides had come into the temple that day,
and likewise of the people whom he met whether he had been
seen in the town. Lastly, he despatched horsemen, and ascer¬
tained that at the point of time in question Basilides had
been eighty miles off. Then he concluded that it must have
been a supernatural appearance, and inferred the meaning of
the response from the name Basilides.
We are fortunate in having another account of the
same incidents, which I subjoin in order to impress
upon the reader how strong is the historical evidence
for them. It is from the pen of Suetonius Tranquillus,
in his biography of Vespasian. It differs in certain
slight particulars from that of Tacitus, just sufficiently
to show that the two are independent, and consequently
mutually corroborative:—
Accordingly he undertook a civil war, and despatched treops
and generals into Italy, meanwhile crossing over himself into
Alexandria, so as to hold the keys of Egypt. Here having a
wish to take auspices as to the security of his empire, he
ordered all persons to be kept away from the temple of Serapis,
and entered it himself unattended. After engaging in deep
prayer to the God, he at length turned round, and found him¬
self presented with boughs, garlands, and offering-cakes,
according to the custom of the place, by the freedman
Basilides: though it was quite certain that no one had let him
in, that he had for some time been suffering from a weakness
of the sinews which interfered with his entering the temple,
and that he was then at a considerable distance. Immedi¬
ately afterwards there arrived a despatch announcing the
overthrow of the forces of Vitellius at Cremona, and the death
of Vitellius himself in the city.
Vespasian’s authority was unlooked for and still fresh, and
weight and majesty were wanting to it. These were now sup¬
plied. One day as he sat on the tribunal, one of the common
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
people who had lost his eyesight, and another who was lame
presented themselves before him .at the same moment, begging
for aid against their maladies after a method revealed to them
in their sleep by Serapis. “ He would restore the eyes of
one,” they said, “ if he would spit upon them, and impart
strength to the leg of the other, if he would deign to touch it
with his heel.” Incredulous of success he scarce dared to try
the experiment. At length, however, he gave way to the
solicitations of his friends, and attempted both cures in a
public manner before the assembled multitude, with complete
success.
The following is the way in which Hume sums up
the evidence for the above instance of healing medium-
ship :—
One of the best attested miracles in all profane history, is
that which Tacitus reports of Vespasian. . . . Every circum¬
stance seems to add weight to the testimony.. . . The gravity,
solidity, age and probity of so great an emperor, who, through
the whole course of his life, conversed in a familiar manner
with his friends and courtiers, and never affected those extra¬
ordinary airs of divinity assumed by Alexander and Demetrius.
The historian, a contemporary writer, noted for candour and
veracity, and withal, the greatest and most penetrating genius,
perhaps, of all antiquity, and so free from any tendency to
credulity, that he even lies under the contrary, imputation of
atheism and profaneness. The persons from whose authority
he related the miracle were of established character for judg¬
ment and veracity, as we may well presume, eye witnesses of the
fact, and confirming their testimony after the Flavian family
was despoiled of the empire, and could no longer give any
reward as the price of a lie. ... To which if we add the public
nature of the facts, as related, it will appear, that no evidence
can well be supposed stronger for so gross and so palpable a
falsehood.
“ So gross and so palpable a falsehood! ” This is all
that Hume has to set against his own formidable sum¬
mary of evidence. He answers reason with stolid
disbelief. It is melancholy to see so keen an intellect
thus hopelessly clouded by prejudice. Yet it little
becomes Spiritualists to blame Hume or his followers,
since in nine cases out of ten their own difference of
belief is simply due to the accident of experience. The
fact is, it does not seem ever to have dawned upon
Hume that miracles could be regarded in any other
but an evidential light. To accept Christian miracles
was with him to accept the Christian religion; and to
accept the miracle at Alexandria would have been to
accept the Egyptian religion. But Hume, although in
error, was too strong for the Protestant divines of his day.
They wished to maintain exclusively the early Chris¬
tian miracles. He pointed to non-Christian and Homan
Catholic miracles; among others, to the famous cures
wrought in his own lifetime at the tomb of the Abb6
Paris, and asked very forcibly, “ If these miracles, as
both you and I admit, are false, while yet they are so
amply attested, why do you ask me to accept miracles
resting on a weaker evidence ?” The evidential view
of miracles, however, has of late been pretty well
knocked on the head. If we were to accept the teach¬
ing of the biggest miracle-monger, we would have some
very queer prophets. Those who see in the appearance
of the Madonna at Lourdes an attestation of the claims
of the Holy Catholic Church cannot, of course, quarrel
with others who may have a fancy to rehabilitate the
faded divinity of Serapis, on the strength of the miracle
at Alexandria. Let both sides enjoy their evidence.
"We, meanwhile, will enjoy both miracles, storing them
up as data by help of which we may hereafter arrive
at a comprehension of important psychological laws.
The best soiree ever yet held by the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, was its first one at the Cleveland Hall,
but it is expected that careful preparations will cause the
soiree of February 3rd next, at the Cavendish Rooms, to be
the best of all.
Jan. 22, 1875.
A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MRS. TAPPAN.
The following is a portion of a trance lecture publicly de¬
livered recently in Birmingham, under the presidency of Mr.
Councillor Heyden. There was a large attendence both of
Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists :—
Mrs. Tappan rose and uttered the following invoca¬
tion :—Infinite Creator, divine and perfect source of light,
Thou to whom we turn for every blessing, and whose- soul is
the perfection of all knowledge, who in time past hast reared
up prophets and sages to speak thy truth, who hast given to
the world the revelation of Thy law and word, who art near to
every heart as the pulsations of life, we would praise Thee for
that Past which reveals Thy power and greatness; for that
Present fraught with the results of Thy law, and filled with
manifold blessings; for that Eternity lying before us wherein
the soul is made glad and strong in the light of immortality.
Oh Thou living spirit! Upon the altar of Thy love we lay the
offerings of our devotion, and would praise Thee even as
nature, praising Thee with manifold lips of life, Jfeys all her
offerings upon the shrine of the universe. The flowers with
their sweet lips praise thee; the glad song of the summer
birds is fraught with thankfulness for light; the mountain
stream and the forests sing anthems, and the ocean for ever
pours its monody of praise to Thee; the mountains in solemn
grandeur point to heaven, and the voiceless stars keep time to
the great beating of Thy Heart. Oh God 1 the soul of man
endowed with intelligence, fraught with understanding, gifted
with immortal aspirations, would praise Thee, harmoniously
as nature does, singing glad songs of thanksgiving, striving to
know of Thee and Thy truth, bursting the barriers of time and
sense, and leaping forth to meet Thee in Thy essential
element of light. Oh God ! even as souls that are made glad
and strong by death, grown free and unafraid in the pure light
of Heaven, praise Thee with harps of love and golden anthems
of rejoicing, so may Thy children praise Thee, basking in the
light of Thy love, even in the midst of time, and change, and
death. May they know that Thou art the God of all life and
all changes, and that the morning and the evening, and light
and darkness, and life and death, are all as shadows that
change and pass, while the soul and Thou art immortal and
dwell together in eternity. May we be ever conscious of Thy
presence and love, uplifting, sustaining, guiding, and directing,
and we shall praise Thee evermore. Amen.
Another hymn having been sung,—
Mrs. Tappan rose to deliver her address. She said: The
subject of this evening’s discourse has been left for our own
decision. We have chosen the following subject, “ The pos¬
sibilities of communication between the spiritual and natural
worlds; and what is it the spiritual world has revealed by
modern Spiritualism ? ” We have chosen this subject, because,
whenever the decision of the subject is left to an audience who
assemble to listen to a spiritual discourse, the audience invari¬
ably, after choosing a subject of another kind, desire to hear
something about Spiritualism; and if the subject be chosen by
the audience, and left to the majority, it generally bears upon
that .subject either in the question itself, or in those which
follow; and of course it is not the purpose of the speaker or
her guides to simply discourse upon scientific or historical
subjects, which may be received from other lecturers. The
object is to give you proof that these lectures are given
impromptu by some such address, and then to acquaint you
with what is the belief concerning modern Spiritualism, since
intellectual gymnastics is not considered, even by the most
abstruse and profound man of science, as his particular pro¬
vince ; and Spiritualism is not for the purpose of displaying
any especial cleverness; but what is known upon the subject
is that which most people desire information upon.
Spiritualism as a science (and we choose to call it such) or
a system of ethics, has been in the world about twenty-five or
twenty-six years. During that time it must be admitted by all
who desire careful investigation that it has advanced most
rapidly so far as the number of its believers is concerned,
but what it has evolved for the general benefit of niankind,
and what its facts are concerning the future state must be
most interesting to the careful and inquiring mind. And
these facts would be of importance if there were only ten
believers in the world instead of some twenty millions. It
therefore is our province to-night to state what is the logical
basis of communion between the spiritual and natural worlds,
and in what manner this philosophy of Spiritualism supplies
the connecting link between man’s spiritual nature and the
material world.
A most ancient philosopher said that no one could presume
Jan. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
to tell that which is possible with the gods until he shall know
himself all that the gods know. So it would be well for men
of science to remember when they state that certain facts or
phenomena are impossible, that no one upon earth can pre¬
sume to tell that which is possible or impossible, unless he or
she is familiar with the entire laws that govern the universe ;
and this statement goes very far to answer the assumption
that such and such manifestations cannot possibly occur,
since they are contrary to the laws of nature. No man of
science understands the entire laws of nature, and it is con¬
trary to the established ethics of science to assume to dictate
what is possible and what is impossible in the universe of
matter. But whatever occurs, it is a scientific axiom that
there must be some law for its occurrence, and it is the busi¬
ness of science and intelligent minds to watch the manifesta¬
tions of nature and of the universe, wherever these manifes¬
tations take place, and gradually arrive at the laws whereby
they are governed, by the manifestations themselves. Spirit¬
ualism, as we have stated, is but a quarter of a century old,
yet it has revealed facts which, if taken in the aggregate,
would prove any known science in the world. More facts have
been published in connection with the manifestations of Spirit¬
ualism than have ever appeared in connection with chemistry,
geology, or even astronomy itself, and these facts it is necessary
that every inquiring mind should acquire. To say that these
facts have never come to you jis no answer. Many of the
most manifest performances of nature never come to a
special individual. These manifestations of Spiritualism
have established first, that certain very remarkable pheno¬
mena occur entirely beyond the ordinary processes of nature,
and without the instrumentality of any known law of nature.
For instance, occult sounds are heard, and have been wit¬
nessed or heard by many thousands of individuals at different
times, with no palpable cause of production of these sounds.
Vibrations of furniture and other ponderable bodies have
taken place without the intervention of any known mecha¬
nical appliance or physical force. Tables, pianos, articles of
furniture have been levitated, contrary, as the scientific man
says, to the law of gravitation, but in reality by some unseen
force which science has not probed. Various other manifes¬
tations, such as the appearances of materialised spirit forms
palpable to sight and touch, palpable to photography, have
been produced. Other performances, such as the seizure of
a person’s hand automatically, and making it write without
any conscious effort on the part of the individual; or such as
the vocal expression through the organs of individuals of
words, sentences, and thoughts that have no connection with
their own brain ; other phenomena, such as manifestation by
inspired visions—all have taken place within the period of
time that we have alleged; and the most singular fact to be
presented to the scientific mind is that in each and all of
these instances, wherever they occur, whether in the remote
wilds of Australia or in the centres of civilisation in Europe
and America, the intelligence dictating and controlling them
claims to be that of departed spirits.
Now if science should say that sounds may be caused by
some law in nature with which the scientific world is not
familiar, it certainly would be accepted; but when sounds
occur consecutively, and manifesting intelligence, the scientific
mind is bound to determine whether that intelligence be from
the embodied mind of/the persons present, or from the only
other source of intelligence, which is disembodied mind.
There can be but two sources of intelligence, the mind which
is embodied in human form, and possessed of human attri¬
butes on earth ; or disembodied intelligence, such as is sup¬
posed to belong to spirits, and to the Divine Mind itself.
When a sound occurs claiming to come from a disembodied
intelligence, manifesting attributes of intelligence and quali¬
ties of thought peculiar to individuals, giving also evidence of
identity, as such thought always must, then it is the business
of science to disprove this, or to show in what manner an
occult force, an impalpable something, can assume the guise
of an intelligent and conscious entity. Again, wherever
these manifestations have occurred under certain conditions
that prohibit the possibility of fraud (since human beings who
are members of the same family are accustomed not to deceive
one another, and since these of course have admitted that the
facts do occur), when the communications of intelligence ex¬
pressed are characteristic of the individual persons whose
names are given, and these are names of persons that once
lived upon earth, occupying intelligent and conscious forms,
and they now claim to inhabit the spiritual world,—the first
thing to be considered is not, we think, whether it is possible
for there to be a spirit world, since the fact itself establishes
that possibility, even if it had not been dreamed of in the world
of mind before. The fact of such an announcement proves
its possibility, and there is nothing in the realm of science
to disprove it.
Again, the spirits communicating with mortals always say
“ We are the spirits of your departed friends; we are not dead
but living; we inhabit a world that to us is as tangible and real
as your world; we are endowed with qualities like those
possessed upon earth ; we retain our thought, our intelligence,
our love, our affection—every quality that made us conscious
,and sentient beings. The only difference between your world
and ours is that ours is one, degree less material or manifest;
that it is composed of substance, that we inhabit spiritual
bodies, that these bodies are governed by laws, and that the
spiritual world is in itself composed of substances that to the
spirit are as tangible as material substances are to the human
body.” This again is strictly in accordance with the hypotheses
of science. Let us see. We know that rock, and soil,
and tree, and the various forms of external matter that are
most palpable to the senses, are not the only substances
in the universe. Science proves that everything which
controls and acts upon matter in the atmosphere—the
gases, the elements of the air which you breathe—are all
material, and are composed of atoms of matter which, in their
original dimensions and qualities, are just as tangible as the
atoms that compose the wood, the stone,the soil of the earth;
that the only difference is in the combination of the atoms.
It is also in accordance with the hypotheses of science that
those things, which are not visible except in motion, or except
when coming in contact with grosser substances, are the most
subtle. Electricity, which is a force generated among atoms,
and produces the most violent results when coming in contact
with certain conditions of atmosphere or earth, is in itself
impalpable unless so brought into contact. All the finer
elements of the human body, such as the nervous force; are
scarcely to be determined by scientific analysis, yet are ad¬
mitted to be as material and powerful as the most solid sub¬
stances in nature, so called. If science has revealed that
oxygen, and carbon, and nitrogen, and hydrogen constitute
some of the vital elements of life that are impalpable except
when they are analysed by experimental chemistry; and if, as
science admits, there lie in the unexplored regions beyond
scientific inquiry at present vast other elements that may be
discovered, then the hypothesis is most natural that there
must be another realm altogether of mind which science has
not yet penetrated, but which, therefore, may be just as real
and palpable as the atmosphere which you cannot see, but
without which you cannot live for one instant of time.
The French Academy, appreciating the vast magnitude and
variety of subjects that come under the unclassified headings
of human thought and investigation, were prone to admit that
in order to account for all the manifestations existing in
humanity, another sense must be added to those senses
already in existence (which are five), namely, the sense
of intuition. If there is a sense of intuition there must
be something for that sense to perceive, since nature never
bestows faculties that are not intended to be used. In the
Mammoth cave of Kentucky, the fishes have no eyes, because
there is no light for them to see. If there were no subjects,
or thoughts, or materials for the sense of intuition to act upon,
humanity would not have that sense. (Applause). Andthissense
of intuition means, we take it, all that activity of mind which lies
beyond the simple seeing, hearing, feeling, tasting and smelling;
and whatever other faculties or thoughts humanity possesses
that cannot be traced to one or all of those five senses must be
traced to what the French Academy has denominated intui¬
tion, the sixth sense* of mankind; and to act, this sixth sense
must have a region of matter and a region of thought
exactly adapted to it, and it must be finer than the sense of
smell, or the sense of touch, or the sense of hearing, or any
of the physical senses proper, since it deals with finer quali¬
ties and with mind itself. And what we mean by this sixth
sense of intuition is this, that those who possess it in a great
degree are qualified with powers, perceptions, attributes, that
other persons do not possess, and cannot, perhaps, ever culti¬
vate. Mozart at the age of three years played the thirds and
fifths, and composed simple melodies which other persons not
endowed intuitively with the sense of music could not com¬
pose at the age of fifty or sixty, and never perhaps. What
we mean by intuition as applied to special faculties of mind
is, that some persons are endowed with those attributes and
know them without ever having heard or been taught, or by
any method of education received them. These are called
geniuses, but no one has ever told what a genius is or to what
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 22, 1875.
particular order of beings a genius belongs, who can im¬
provise music when another human being, who looks almost
the same, cannot play a single note. No one has ever clas¬
sified and arranged humanity into orders, as the zoologist
has the various animals of creation. Yet these distinctive
orders exist, and every individual is aware of possessing some
other faculty than that which is manifested merely by the
external senses to which we have referred. The spiritual or
inner substance of nature is that substance upon which intui¬
tion acts, and to respond to this sense which science has given
to man there must be an inner or intuitive sphere of nature
which science has never reached, and into which she has not yet
dared to penetrate. This inner nature is the spiritual nature.
This inner structure is the spiritual structure, and it is just as
much possessed by persons embodied as by disembodied persons.
It is a mistake to suppose that because you inhabit a material
body you therefore have no spiritual body. The truth is, that
your spiritual body inhabits your material body, possesses it,
infuses its life into it, and constitutes the inner You, of
which the outermost is expressed by your physical form or
covering; and the outward body is no more your spirit than is
your coat or the garment that you wear. Intuition deals with
this inner spiritual body. It is this body that you take with you
when you die. It is not visible to your physical senses, but
nevertheless it permeates in its atoms and particles every
portion of your physical body. It inhabits the nervous
system ; it pervades and fills every faculty and fibre of your
existence, and without it there can be no expression of life
through your physical organism. This spiritual body is the
covering of the spirit, as the garment is the covering of your
physical body; and when you pass through the change which
is called death you take with you, not the worn-out garment
or coat, but the spiritual body only ; and that spiritual body
it is which the sense of intuition can discover, and which
seers, clairvoyants, mesmeric subjects and persons endowed
with spiritual vision rightly perceive; and it is that spiritual
body which inhabits the spiritual world, and that spiritual
world is made up of the same kind of substances that the
spiritual body requires, and are related to the spirit as the
material world is related to your body.
( To he concluded.)
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
This Association celebrated its fourth anniversary, on
Thursday evening last, with a soiree dansante, at the Luxem¬
bourg Hall, Dalston. Notwithstanding the unfavourable state
of the weather, upwards of 100 members and friends of the
Association assembled.
Mr. A. M. Oreene read a letter from the president, Mr.
Alfred E. Lovell, explaining that unexpected business necessi¬
tated his presence in the north; he therefore regretted his
inability to preside.
Letters were also read from Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.,
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mrs. Showers ;
Mrs. Fitzgerald; Mrs. M. E. Tebb; Mrs. C. Berry; Miss
Houghton; and others, wishing every success to the Asso¬
ciation.
Dr. George Sexton was unanimously voted to the chair,
and in his opening speech he referred to the satisfactory
advances made by Spiritualism in the district.
Misses Maltby gave a duet, Les Diamans de la Couronne,
upon the pianoforte with considerable ability.
Mr. George W. Forbes Playfair, in congratulating the mem¬
bers on the success which had attended their efforts, stated
that he had but a short time since joined the Association as a
sceptic, and felt bound to acknowledge the courtesy exhibited
by his fellow members. He was also much impressed by the
good feeling which prevailed amongst their body, while his
increased knowledge tended to induce a better feeling towards
the matter than he originally entertained.
Miss M. A. Sparey then sang a song, entitled “ The Spirit
Voice,” which elicited applause. A recitation by Miss Sexton
of “ Ivan the Czar” followed, in which shei exhibited con¬
siderable elocutionary powers and dramatic ability.. Miss
Maltby then sang “ Sing, Sweet Bird,” with pleasing effect,
meeting with warm applause at the finish.
Miss Kislingbury, one of the honorary secretaries of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, spoke on the
question of “ conditions,” of so much importance, in the
phenomena of Spiritualism, and stated that no little credit
was due to the members and friends in overcoming that even¬
ing the very unfavourable “ conditions” of weather and dis¬
tance, which showed that they were determined to ensure
success.
Mrs. Major and Mr. G. Haxby then gave a selection of music
on the piano and violin, which was heartily applauded. A
trio, “ The Pilgrim of Love,” by Miss and Mr. Alfred James
and Henry Sparey, upon the piano, cornet, and violin, followed,
the execution of which reflected the highest credit upon the
performers. Miss Maltby was then called upon, and sang “ I
Love My Love” in her accustomed style, and met with con¬
siderable favour from the assembly. Miss Sexton gave
the song “ Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead” with
almost professional ability. The Misses Maltby again played
a duet “ Le Cheval de Bronze,” with much taste. A cornet
solo, “The Last Bose of Summer,” by Mr. Alfred James
Sparey, was splendidly rendered. The programme was then
brought to a conclusion by a short but effective speech by the
chairman.
A vote of thanks to the chairman for presiding was proposed
by Major Owen, seconded by Mr. Thomas Blyton, and carried
unanimously; after which. Dr. Sexton, having transferred
his powers to the M.G., Mr. Bishop, he vacated the
chair. Dancing was then commenced to the strains of an
efficient band, and was continued until an early hour the
next morning, Refreshments of a superior character were
provided throughout the evening by Mr. Bishop (the pro¬
prietor of the hall), who paid every attention to the assembled
guests.
Materialised Spirit Hands.—A few weeks ago we
published a description of a public seance with the profes¬
sional mediums, Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.O., and narrated how materiahsed
spirit hands appeared in the presence of Mr. Bastian. He
invited one of the observers to sit alongside him, on the two
slight chairs placed in one corner of the room; a shawl was
then pinned from wall to wall across them, so that their heads
and shoulders were visible over the shawl, behind which the
spirits had the partial darkness necessary for the manufacture
of materialised hands. Soon living bare hands and arms
came over the shawl in different places, and picked up bells
and other objects placed near in various positions by the
observers, and the two sitters were seen not to move at the
time. Since then we have again met the second gentleman
who sat behind the shawl, and who testified that the medium
sat entirely motionless; the witness was Captain James (late
of Dover), now of 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham. He is an old
and experienced student of mesmerism, and a friend of the
late Dr. Elliotson, the founder of the Mesmeric Infirmary.
BISHOP AUCKLAND ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE COMMITTEE beg to announce that a GENERAL
MEETING will be held at Mr. S. S. Lingford’s Baths, Olyde-terrace,
on SUNDAY EVENING, the 24th inst. Chair to he taken at six
o’clock.
The committee cordially invite all Spiritualists in Town and District, who
are interested, and have a desire to spread the; glorious cause, as business
of great importance will be brought before the meeting.
Jos. Gibson, Hon. Sec.
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze,Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the'United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth j also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four te el Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Jan. 22, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CL AIR VO Y ANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea, Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF. SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is flow on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J.'M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W. '
Honywood, Mrs., 52,. Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vifla, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie,' John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Bptchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blaekheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo > Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-roacj, St. John's-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J.. 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18; Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge. Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Onne-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (.Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Oamden-town, London, N.W.
►HOLOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOOK OF HAIR!!!
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare” and the Indian Chief “Blackhawk.”
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
COATES BAZAAR, 12G, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron VonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial' Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting. New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epos Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell ■
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.;
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 22, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism Reserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The .London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., Gr. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Q-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert" Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued Its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
opcur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
1“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deceptibn, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes,, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results>fle'.obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of’the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
ju^t large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters, breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, ybry considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People*who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table, tiltlngs or raps.
7. When' motions of thC table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, -let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is-understood.' If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be giyen, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
- system oih communication is established.
8. Aftferwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial natufle, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thproughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat ’ from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
* Possibly at the first sitting of a'circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace,<the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs.' Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James WasOn; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of l/nor-
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OE THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
rriHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
SPrR.TTTT A T. TR'.T.WPR A T*IT
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave ' Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated froin the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Boob. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
alsoLe essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spirituahsts and Enquirers. Published'price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is. j.y
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W. C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2£d. Published on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Hey wood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles oh some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves'frbm the Editor’s Note Boob. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by W.
Allen, Ave Mayia-lane London E.C.
