AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 156.—(Voii. VII.—No. 8.) LONDON: AUGrITST 20j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The Progress of Spiritualism ...      85
Manifestations with the Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty ... 85
El-jah; A Vision       ...  ■  87
Spiritualism in Works of Fiction    88
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris ...‘  88
Spirit Hands     89
Spiritual Manifestations on Board H.M.S. Monarch   90
Mesmeric Healing of the Sick   90
A Strange and Startling Story ...     .91
Organisation Among Spiritualists    ... ...   92
Advice to Mediums   '       92
Correspondence :—The Origin of the Human Spirit—The Heart and
the Understanding: Religion and Science—Spiritualism in East
London—Vegetarianism and Spiritualism—National Associa¬
tion Elections—A True Spirit - Artist—Religion and Modern
Spiritualism       93
Provincial News:—Newcastle—Birmingham—Carnarvon—Leicester... 95
Paragraphs:—A Talking Baby, 90; The Inhumanity of Atheism, 92;
Buskin on Modern Society, 95; Dr. Sexton at the Cavendish
Rooms       ... 96
Answers to Correspondents  ... ... ... 96
East London spiritual meetings. — LECr
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on'Deposlts.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet contain leg full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHtFR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT'S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE .SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychelogiquea,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. Cs. Gd.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mbs. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tykbman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
B
EVERIDGE AND
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The Sp
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
iritualist
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on pplication.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five t hillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.G., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
. The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, September laf, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. Gd.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and esper
daily by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th 1875.
Published by H, K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Heretord-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hlll, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-G-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregorv, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlll, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.H.O.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry 0., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 40, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Pinchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House Belper.
Armfleld, W. N„ Eden-villa, Oairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John,,2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, P.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsharo-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keuingale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-roud Blackheath, S.B1.
Dawe, N. Pabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrare, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-bi 11, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Pitton, R., 34, Walnut-s reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S., Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Uerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 0, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.K.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
'Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stieet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham,!, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Ay Isham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N,
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A, LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, old Rent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymoui>place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 26, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junctiou, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., L The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary,
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. PEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bakdjc Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Penth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschacb, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg,
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.]
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-stroet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esn., 96, Russell-street, Meloourne, Victoria, Australia,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epee Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Veruon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieras, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9,.Monigomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1'Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby. 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magneiiqne. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS, Professional Medium, is at
present on the Continent. Letters addressed to him at 61, Lambs
Conduit-street, Holborn, London, will be forwarded.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
PROFESSOR REGAN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, be is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient's residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Rbciisthii youh Letters,
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.   
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W~ Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private, seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative iMesmerism (SO Years Established), attends patients
daily] from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.  
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
% Jjlmrii % |)rxigri$$ Jlp
VOJL.UJVIE ^EVEj^. JS[U|4BER EIQHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 20th, 1876.
Cfr* S|jinfualist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS: —Half-a-erown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms
for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Cobrbspondenue.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the oftice not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'‘The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office of
Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, O.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. -William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law;• Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London.', Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jenckeri? M.R.I., Barris
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;. Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London;—Sihfkin, Marshall & Co.
THE PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Every now and then when some great blow, like the
Buguet affair in Paris, or the Holmes’s affair in Phila¬
delphia, falls upon the spiritual movement, there are
those in our ranks who say, “ This is a great
blow to the movement, and will fling it back for years,”
and who, when the Times prints several columns in
favour of Spiritualism, contributed by one of its corro-
I spondents, exclaim, “ This will do immense good to the
movement.” As the progress or the retardation of the
movement can be exactly measured by the circulation
of its newspapers, we are in a position to say that
neither of the views just mentioned is correct. No
outside influences of the kind can affect Spiritualism
more than to slightly harden or slightly loosen the soil
in which it is growing. The reason of this is obvious
when a little thought is given to the matter. Spirit¬
ualism is a social movement. When a man’s brother
or sister comes to him and says,‘“ We formed a spirit-
circle last night, and we really obtained the raps and
movements spoken of by Spiritualists,” although all the
newspapers in the world may afterwards say, “ It is
imposture,” the man who receives the testimony from
the bosom of his own family knows there is something
in it, consequently the movement spreads in the teeth
of outside opposition. On the other hand, when
mediums or the lower spirits prove false to their trust,
and bring great troubles upon the movement, like those
which we have seen of late, the publication of the
adverse circumstances does not stop the sitting of spirit-
circles anywhere; the phenomena develope, and obser¬
vations of them proceed in exactly the same manner as
before; thus the movement is not retarded, and if a
great thing is done in its favour, as in the case when
the Times printed such a gentlemanly and fair article
upon the whole subject, the facts contained therein
were too far beyond the experience of general readers
to be assimilated by them, consequently there was no
immediate rapid growth of the movement, but a little
outside prejudice was removed—the soil on which
Spiritualism was growing was slightly loosened. For
all these reasons the occasional remark that such and
such a thing does good or harm to S£nritualism is
founded on a misconception.
MANIFESTATIONS WITH THE FAKIRS IN INDIA.
No. I.
BY DR. MAXIMILIAN TERTY,
Professor of Physical Science, Berne; Translated from
“ Psychic Studies."
The early history of those ancient peoples who
exercised the greatest influence on classical and on
modem culture was not much inquired into until the
present century. It is more particularly the Hindoos
and the still more ancient Egyptians, nations with an
essentially hierarchical government, a powerful priest¬
hood, highly-developed mysteries, and minutely-
prescribed rites and ceremonies, whose arts, customs,
Aug. 20, 1875.
8G THE SPIRITUALIST.
opinions and philosophies had such a powerful influence
on the Persians, the Arabs, and the Greeks, and
whose religious ideas have interpenetrated so deeply
other religions, the Christian religion not excepted.
The Aryans, in their primitive abodes, appear to have
believed in the spirits of their ancestors, and amongst
the Hindoos this belief was developed into a complete
system in the Book of the Pitris. These and other
Indian subjects have been again investigated within
the last few years by a Frenchman named Louis Jacol-
liot, who resided in Pondicherry, and from that point
travelled throughout India, and instituted researches into
its history, its antiquities, and its religion. One por¬
tion of these, most likely to interest the readers of
this journal, bears the title, u Le Spiritisme clans le
monde. L’initations et les sciences occultes clans Vlnde.”
Paris, 1875. It contains, in addition to much matter
drawn from the Book of the Pitris (spirits), also some
original observations on the performances of the
Fakirs, which bear a great similarity to Western spirit-
manifestations.
Communion with spirits can only be obtained by
the initiated, from the fakirs upward. Only by
severe, long-continued penances can the higher stages
be reached; the highest of all, the Jogy, stands im¬
measurably above ordinary men. The Jogys consti¬
tute the Council of Elders, abstain from sexual
intercourse, and so elevated is their condition and so
grelat their merit, that ordinary persons could not
attain to it in thousands of generations and incarna¬
tions. The seven-knotted bamboo stick, which even
the fakirs always use, is also found in the higher
stages, and is solemnly delivered to them by the high-
priest ; the seven knots represent the seven degrees
of invocation and of outward manifestation. The
highest priest is called by the name Brahmatma.
When the Guru, or high-priest, begins teaching his stu¬
dents, who sit in faith and reverence at his feet, he says
to them : “ Listen ! while the wretched Suclra (lowest
class) throws himself like a dog upon his couch, the
Vaysia heaps up the riches of this world, the TscJiatrya
(prince, warrior) sleeps in his mistress’s chamber,
wearied but never satisfied with pleasure ; then is it
time for the righteous, who will not allow themselves
to he enslaved by the impure bodily envelope, to
devote themselves to the pursuit of knowledge.”
The initiated attain to the power ascribed to them
through a long life of severest asceticism. There are
different degrees of this power. To the first class
belong the Grihastas, who do not forsake their families,
and are a sort of intermediary between the priesthood
and the people ; they cannot produce any magic phe¬
nomena, but can only invoke the spirits of their own
family ancestors, in order to receive injunctions from
them as to the earth-life. Then come the Purohitas,
who are attached to the temples, and perform the
ordinary priestly functions at seasons of birth, mar¬
riage, burial, invocation of family ghosts, casting of
horoscopes, and the expulsion of demons. Lastly,
the Fakirs, who are the almoners of the temples, as
well as magicians, and have power at will to produce
the most striking effects, seemingly at variance with
our so-callted natural laws ; and this occurs, according
to the assertion of the Brahmins, with the help of the
Pitris, or ancestral spirits. In the second and third
classes, the Sanyassis, the Nirvanys, and Jogys, the
power is the same in kind, but different in degree.
They perform their manifestations only in the inner
part of the temple, or, quite rarely, before very dis¬
tinguished persons, and occasionally at public festivals ;
they believe that the visible and the invisible world are
alike subject to their will, that they can command the
elements, leave their bodies and return to them; their
oriental fancy knows no bounds and no hindrance, and
they are looked upon in India in the light of gods.
The working of a priestly organisation can be seen
throughout, and it is asserted that in the crypts of the
pagodas these adepts are subjected during many years
to a severe discipline, which works a physiological
change in their organism, and increases the amount of
pure fluid, which is called Agasa, and is the vehicle of
all magic influence. Ml Jacolliot did not succeed in
gaining any knowledge of these processes, and-can
only give us information concerning the Fakirs them¬
selves. Even the prayers and evocations of the first
degree were never written down, only given viva voce,
and the Book of Pitris (Spirits) is silent on this point.
According to Brahminical teaching, the agasa, the
pure life-fluid (perhaps our ether) pervades all nature,
and is the connecting agent between all animate and
inanimate, all visible and invisible beings; electricity,
heat, all natural forces, act only by means of agasa.
Whoever possesses it in large measure gains power
over those who have less, and over inanimate objects.
The spirits themselves, who place their power at the
service of those mortals able to invoke them, feel the
universal binding force of agasa acting on all earthly
things. Certain Brahmins believe that agasa is the
active principle, or soul, in nature, as well as the ruler
of all human souls, and that these would be much
more intimately united but for the continual obstruc¬
tion of sensuous matter; the more a soul liberates
itself by a contemplative life, the more open it
becomes to receive the universal stream which is ever
flowing throughout the visible and invisible world.
The extraordinary skilfulness of the Indian fakirs is
well known ; they are generally designated as magicians
or jugglers, and all Asiatic peoples ascribe to them a
supernatural power. Many believe that our cleverest
conjurors can produce the same effects, but there exist
between the two some essential differences ; the fakir,
for instance, never performs before large assemblies,
but only in private residences : he has no assistant, is
always quite devoid of clothing, with the exception of
a small lappet depending from the waist; is innocent of
all apparatus or preparation, of the cups, false-bot¬
tomed boxes, magic pockets, or prepared tables peculiar
to the prearranged performances of our conjurors.
The fakir has nothing at all but a small bamboo stick,
of the thickness of a penholder, and with seven joints,
in his right hand; and a pipe about three inches long
fastened to a plait in his hair, because, being unclothed,
he has no pocket in which to keep it. He operates,
according to wish, either sitting or upright, on the
matting of the saloon, on the marble, granite, or
mortar floor of the verandah, or on the bare earth of
the garden. Should he require any person on whom
to operate for magnetic or somnambulic effects, he
takes the first domestic indicated, be he Indian or
European. Should he require a musical instrument, a
tube, paper, or pencil, he simply asks for it. At the
same time he will repeat his performance as often as it
is required—he never demands payment, but accepts
an alms for his temple. The fakirs in all the various
Indian provinces observe these regulations. “Can
any one believe,” asks Jacolliot, “ that our conjurors
Aug. 20, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
87
would be capable of performing under these con¬
ditions ? ”
The above writer, who had been many years in
India, knew nothing of the phenomena of American
and European Spiritualism, and had never seen a table
moved. “ The immoderate belief in the invisible ”
reminded him so much of the ecstasies and mysteries
of Catholicism, that he, a live nationalist, as he still
asserts himself to be, could not bring himself to be
present at a modern spirit-circle. Having always con¬
sidered the Indian fakirs as conjurors only, he had
refused to see them likewise, but continued to hear of
their wonderful feats of skill. One day at noon, while
in Pondicherry, his dobaschy, or man-servant, again
announced a fakir. He resolved to receive him, and
repaired to one of the inner verandahs of his house,
where the fakir awaited him, cowering on the marble
floor. Jacolliot was struck with his leanness, his
emaciated features, and his half-sunken eyes, which
reminded him of the motionless grey-blue eyes ‘of the
great sea-shark. The fakir raised himself slowly, bowed
with his hands placed on bis forehead, and murmured,
“ Salaam, Sahib ! I am Salvanidin-Odear, son of Cana-
gareyen-Odear. The immortal Yishnu protect your
days!” “Welcome, Salvanidin-Odear, son of Cana-
gareyen-Odear, may you die on the sacred banks of the
Tucangy, and may this transformation be your last,”
replied Jacolliot. “ The duru (high priest) of the
pagoda told me this morning, ‘ Go and glean at hazard
along the rice fields,’ and Gonesa, the protecting deity
of the wanderer, has guided me to you.” “ You are
welcome !” “What do you want with me ?” “ It is
said you can move inanimate bodies without touching
them ; I should like to see you perform that miracle.”.
“ Salvanidin-Odear has not that power* but he invokes
the spirits, and they give him their assistance.” “ Very
well, Salvanidin-Odear, call the spirits, and show me
their power.” At these words the fakir crouched again
on the floor, placed his seven-jointed staff between his
crossed legs, and asked me to allow him to have seven
little earthen pots of mould, seven thin bars of wood,
each of two yards in length, and seven leaves of any
sort. When the desired objects were brought, he
requested the dobaschy to place them in a line about
two feet beyond his extended arms, to stick one wooden
bar in each pot, and to transfix each leaf by a wooden
bar, so that it should hang down over the pot as a sort
of covering. This done, the fakir raised his folded
hands above his head and pronounced in the Tamulic
language the following invocation: “ May all the
powers that watch over the spiritual principle of life
and over the principle of matter, protect me from the
anger of evil spirits, and may the immortal spirit
Mahatatridandi, who has three forms, deliver me from
the revenge of Yama.” Then he stretched out his
hands towards the pots, and remained in a motionless
trance, moving his lips only from time to time, as if
speaking inwardly.
Accokding to the latest news Mr. Dale Owen was in a
lunatic asylum, and no bettor. Dr. Newton could probably
benefit him, if not called in too late.
The Princess Isabeau de Beatjvau-Craon, an ardent
student of Spiritism, magnetism, astronomy, and other sci¬
ences, whose mother applied to the Tribunal of the Seine for
an injunction against her daughter, on the plea of her insanity,
has gained her case, and the Prinoess’-mother has been mulcted
in the costs. The Tribunal did not see that a person loving
the exact sciences must have a diseased brain.
EL-JAH—A VISION.
The following is the, opening portion of a communication
given by writing mediumship through the hand of a gentleman
during a thunderstorm
Angelus, the Wind. Terrus, the Earth. Diabolus, tho Fire.
Osiris, the Ancient of Days.
Terrus—We three have once again met. How have I longed
and waited and watched! Say, Angelus. is the time ended? Have
I fulfilled my work ? or must I still continue to groan, and
travail, and bring forth in pain ? My children weep and look
to me for help, and without you, Angelus and Diabolus, I am
powerless; say, shall we finish the work and unfold to them
the mystery of life ?
Angehis—Loved Terrus, tho “ times of the end draweth
mghtho four winds shall blow upon the valley of dry bones,
and call them together, and we will breathe the affiatus, and thy
offspring shall know that they live.
Diabolus—Dear loved Terrus, the pall shall no longer
oppress thee ; my mission and work shall be unfolded, and thou
and thy progeny shall be redeemed. We will lift the veil, and
then thy beauty shall bo seen, even in thy garments, and Isis
shall bo recognised. I caused the night, and clothed thee in
darkness, and thou hast been weak and long-suffering; but wo
must yet help thee to bring forth, so that tho fruit of thy womb
shall be all glorious; for awhile still keep on thy veil, else tho
light will bo too strong and the heat too sti’ong and ardent.
Terrus—I felt, 0 Angolus and Diabolus, your tread, and my
soul leaped up to meet you at. your coming. My fair one
Angelus, the children that aro born to mo think of thee as light,
but the loved Diabolus put tho veil on, and the sight affrights
them, and they still look in ignorance, but know not who he is.
Diabolus—That proves the perfection of the work we have
accomplished ; we have made the appearance to them of ^/(per¬
fection, and thy purity has to them the appearance of impurity,
and our equality has the appearance of iniquity. Tho “ little
one ” thou art now to give birth to shall become a thousand, and
tho “ small one ” a strong nation ; for violence shall no more be
heard in thy land, nor destruction within thy borders, but those
that have boon given to thee shall call thy walls Salvation, and
thy gates Praise.
Angelus,—Time shall bo no more, and there shall bo no more
death, for the sun shall no more go down; and in that pearly
light thy little ones shall neither wTeary nor utter cry, for thou
shalt see of the travail of thy souls, and be abundantly satisfied.
We are Love, Wisdom, and Power, the great Three-one, and they-
know it not; but Wisdom shall utter her voice and still tho
waters of strife, and thou shalt give birth to the twin in joy.
But let us lift up our eyes. I see a “ fourth,” like unto the
“ Son of Man,” who approaches. Lot us worship and adore: it
is Osiris, tho mightier Angel, tho Ancient of Days, . and is
Jehovah the Redeemer.
Osiris—Ye faithful ones : My behests ye heard, and ye have
done well your work; enter ye into your Master’s joy. My
reign is w’ell nigh over, and I give place so that one mightier
than I shall crown tho edifice wo have brought into existence.
The cycle is near run round, and then the all-glorious Osira
shall commence and run her cycle. Shall not even I say, “ the
Father is greater than I? ”
O Terms, I called thee and thou answered ;
O Angelus, [ spake, and thou didst it;
O Diabolus, I commanded, and thou stood still and fixed it.
But tho state has come, and a new thing has to bo done. Who
shall do it ? for ye know—
I form the light and create darkness;
I make peace and create evil;
I do all these, and ye are my witnesses.
I have shaken thee, 0 Terrus.
O Angelus, now thou shalt bo shaken;
And thou, O Diabolus, shall be exalted.
And what will ye ? Tarry not! Go forth with the sickle and
reap the harvest; for the harvest has come, and loved angels
bring the sheaves into tho garner. My own glorious love, Isis,
will manifest herself; the veil shall bo lifted, and life bo sent
forth, not in darkness, but in light. I have spoken to Apgel'us,
and she was obedient. I now speak to thee, Terrus, and thou
shalt be obedient. I shall speak again, and Diabolus shall
hearken and respond, and then the Beginning and the End shall
be seen from the, centre—one centre, one circumference, and
one mediate.
Angehis, Terrus, and Diabolus, in chorus—We, Osiris, Grea
Sun and Builder, delight to do thy will, for we are in thee and
thou in us, thou the Alpha and we the Omega. All hail!
Hallelujah! thy now name Jah shall be made manifest and
known.
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875,
SPIRITUALISM IN WORKS OF FICTION.
The Clcrcjyman’s Confession, by Wilkie Collins, the first part
of which appeared in the World, on the 4th of August, has been
completed in the following number, and, as we thought, it
proves to be a genuine ghost story, which has been introduced
without comment, and which roads like many another spirit
manifestation, agreeing with and corroborating the reality of
what most Spiritualists have witnessed within the last two or
three years.
The clergyman had taken into his house as a pupil a man
who had murdered his wife by cutting her throat, and who on
leaving the house mysteriously and hastily had left her photo¬
graph behind, which revealed to the clergyman the features of
a young French woman whom he had himself known and
befriended somo years before, and when last parting with her
he begged that if she ever needed his assistance she would send
to him. The sudden absence of his pupil, coupled with the
discovery of the likeness, assured him that this man was the
murderer for whom the hue and cry had gone abroad, and that
tho Frenchwoman was the victim.
The clergyman mounted his horse at once, and rode to the
nearest station where ho could despatch a telegram to London
to make full inquiries. Returning moodily to the rectory, the
last words of the Frenchwoman recurred to his memory—“ I
shall die young, and die miserably. Have you interest enough
still left in me to wish to hear of it ? . . . You shall hear of it.”
We now copy a few words from the clergyman’s narrative:—
“ In the month of July was it possible that any living crea¬
ture (in good health) could feel cold ?
“ It was not possible, and yet the chilly sensation still crept
through and through me to the bones. I looked up. I
looked around me. My horse was walking along an open high
road. On either side the fiat fields stretched away bright and
broad in the moonlight. I stopped my horse and looked round
me again. Yes, I saw it; with my own eyes I saw it: a pillar
of white mist was moving beside me. When I stopped, the
white mist stopped; when I wont on, the white mist went on.
I pushed my horse to a trot, the pillar of mist was with me;
I stopped him again, tho pillar of mist was with me. ... I was
awed rather than frightened. . . . My groom was waiting for my
return at the rectoi*y gate. I pointed to the mist. : Do you
see anything there ? ’ I said. The man looked at mo in astonish¬
ment. The housekeeper met mo in tho hall. I pointed to tho
mist entering with me. '‘Do you see anything at my side?’
I asked. The housekeeper looked at mo as the man had
looked at me. ‘ I am afraid you aro not well, sir,’ she said.
‘ Your colour is all gone. Yon aro shivering. Let me get you
a glass of wine.’ I w.ent into my library. The photograph
still lay where I had left it. The pillar of mist floated round
the table and stopped opposite to me, behind tho photograph.
... I was alone in the room. I sat looking at the pillar of
mist hovering opposite to me. At length it grew bright and
luminous, and a shadowy appearance took tho outline of a
human form. Soft brown eyes, tender and melancholy, looked
at me through the unearthly light in the mist. The head and
the rest of the face broke next slowly on my view. Then the
figure gradually revealed itself, moment by moment, downward
and downward to the feet. She stood before me as I had last
seen her, in her purple merino dross, with tho black silk apron,
with the white handkerchief tied loosely round her nock. She
stood before me in the gentle beauty that I remembered so well.
... I fell on my knees at the table. I stretched out my hands
to her imploringly. I said, ‘ Speak to me, oh, speak to me
once again, Jeromette ! ’ She lifted her hand and pointed
to the photograph on my desk, with a gesture which bade
me turn the card. I turned it. The name of the man .who
had left my house that morning was inscribed on it, in her own
handwriting.
“ She lifted her hand once more, and pointed to the handker¬
chief round her neck. As I looked at it the fair white silk
changed horribly in colour—the fair white silk became darkened
and drenched with blood. By slow degrees tho figure, then tho
face, faded back into tho shadowy appearance that I had at first
seen. . . . The mist itself dropped slowly downwards—floated a
moment in airy circles on tho floor—vanished. . . .
“ I leave you to draw your own conclusion from what I have
related. My own faith in the reality of the apparition is
immovable. I say and believe that Jcromotte kept her word
with me. She died young, and died miserably. And I hoard
of it from herself. ...” ,
This clergyman’s story shows that tho writer is well
acquainted with the phenomena of materialisation, and we
repeat, that tho story would have been more in place in tho
columns of our journal.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARTS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.’'
Sir,—So long as the fact indicated by tho above title con¬
tinues, and so long as Mr. Gledstane’s absence continues, I
suppose I must continue to be its chronicler for you, like a
soldier enlisted, or rather, a volunteer engaged, for the war. I
telegraphed you the result of Leymario’s second trial or appeal;
that is to say, that there was a strongly hostile report by the
judge appointed tho rapporteur; a powerful argument by
Lachaud in defence 'of Leymarie; and a postponement of tho
decision of the Court of Appeal till Friday. On this postpone¬
ment was founded some degree of hopeful augury. It seemed
so impossible and absurd that even tho most blindly hostile
judges could find any pretext on which to condemn Leymarie, as
the case stood. And yet a very eminent French lawyer to whom
I had whispered that remark, answered: “ You do not know
those men you see there. You, with your American ideas, think
they are judges. They aro not. They will condemn anyhow.”
The President of the Court was a M. Rohault de Fleury, who
happens also, as I am told, to be the President of tho Societc de
St. Francois Xavier—an ultra Jesuitico-clerical organisation for
the propagation of the faith (Ultramontane) among the working
classes. This may be a high title of merit to that gentleman,
for this world as well as the next, and no doubt ho and his
friends so regard it. But Leymarie’s friends regarded it as a
very unfortunate coincidence for him and for Spiritualism, of
which he is now the most prominent representative in France.
Somo explanation, in passing, upon the French magistrature.
It is, as I am assured, a sort of close corporation, recruited
almost invariably out of a certain number of. old judicial
(formerly called parliamentary) families, tho younger budding
or sprouting members of which, after going through their course
of university legal studios, and starting a small incipient prac¬
tice, are soon appointed, through the influence of their kindred
elders, first as deputy or substitute procurews,, or prosecuting
lawyers, in some small provincial town, and then rising gra¬
dually through tho successive steps of tho magisterial hierarchy,
till all tho seats on all tho judicial benches, highest and lower,
are filled by them, and them alone—with rare occasional excep¬
tions—and with regular revision, of course, through tho working
of the same aristocratic powers, to tho next generation of them
and theirs. The bench in France is not recruited, as in
England and tho United States, from the more distinguished
lawyers who have made their mark in general independent
practice; and some very poor sticks in point of ability, with but
moderate compensation in point of morality, often get thus
pitchforked into positions in the career, whose servility to tho
powers that be, and retrograde zeal against all the now and
progressive ideas and aspirations of the nineteenth century,
become then and thereafter their surest titles to advancement—
this being often not incompatible with a total Yoltairean absence
of real faith or belief in anything in particular, except in the
good things of this life for themselves, and severe exorcise of
their magisterial power against all and sundry who may happen
to fall into their hands.
They are all styled magistrals, divided into the two classes of
magistrates, debout (on their legs) and assis (seated). At the
beginning of a trial they are all seated on a raised platform, on
the same level, only the procureur or proenreur substitut being a
little apart from the judges proper. Tho proceedings are con¬
ducted by a Judge President, above whoso head hangs on tho
wall a large picture of the Christ crucified. When the judges
proper retire to consider their j udgment, or arret, the prose¬
cuting magistrate goes with them. There is a Procureur
General for the whole of France, and a substitut to him. There
is a Procureur de la Republique for each department (or Royal or
Imperial, as the case may be), and sundry substitute to him.
Those pi-ocureurs, or prosecuting magistrate-lawyers, constitute
in their collectivity what is called tho Parquet. The juges
(^instruction belong to the Parquet. Any criminal or correc¬
tional case arising is sent by the Procureur de la Rcpubiique (as
now styled) for a private inquisition, such as I have before de¬
scribed to you as having taken place in regard to our friends.
This inquisition is private, keen, and arbitrary, discretionary
powers almost unlimited being vested in the juge dlinstruction.
The “ instruction ” lasts until the magistrate has made up his
mind whether to proceed or to discharge the accused. Tho
accused is kept meanwhile in solitary confinement, without
communication with family, friends, or counsel, unless the
judge-inquisitor, after he has got out of him, or out of all the
other elements of his inquisition, enough to satisfy him, when
he may or may not admit him to bail; or may or may not allow
him to rocoivo certain stated visits from wife, &o., in prison,
with a double grating (and a yard ’ or two of abyss) between
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
Aug. 20, 1875.
them. The answers of the accused to the inquisitorial interro¬
gations, and also the chamber depositions of witnesses, are
taken down in writing by a tjreffier or clerk, and signed by the
parties, after having them read to them. They, in their totality,
together with the conclusions of the judge-inquisitor, constitute
what is called the dossier, or body of papers. If the judge-
inquisitor finds that there is no shadow of pretext for going
further, ho can discharge the accused by what is called an
ordonnnnce de non-lieu, or decree that there is no ground. Other¬
wise he reports the whole to the Procweur de la Repvhlique, or
head of the local parquet, who is free to form his own judgment
on the whole case, but who pretty much as a matter of course
adopts the conclusions thus reported to him.
The accused then goes to trial, and he is in general (except in
the higher order of offences, which must go to the assizes, where
he will have the advantage of a jury) vine-tenths condemned in
advance. . When ho is not remitted to the assizes, ho is sent to
the police correctionelle (divided into various chambers or
coui'ts), where judges alone decide his fate—or rather a judge-
president, assisted by two or more conseillers, whom, by a trans¬
lation pretty correct, though free, I may call dummies. They,
and especially the president-judge, have studied the dossier of
the instruction or requisition, and generally conduct the hunt of
the accused (presumed to be guilty and to be trying to escape
justice), often with all the keenness of a hostile cross-examining
counsel. When the judge’s mind is pretty well made up in
advance, as it generally is, this is conducted with great rapidity.
It was almost vertiginous to see, in the case of the witnesses in
behalf of Loymarie and Firman, how, after a few questions, and
when they would be waiting for more, the president would cut it
short with Allez ictus asseoir (“ Go and sit down ”). The counsel
for the accused may indeed ask questions, but cross-examina¬
tion, in our English and American sense, is in practice so
unknown, that there is no word for it in the language. When I
asked a French lawyer for the French for “ cross-examination,”
he answered, “ We have not the thing, therefore have not the
word.”
The parquet, or prosecuting department, is called le ministere
public, and its action is called la justice. And though you in
England are sadly in want of a body of state prosecuting officers,
such as we have in America, yet from a French ministere public
and a. French justice, and French prosecuting judges, good Lord
deliver you!
A strong sympathy, or esprit de corps, runs through the whole
of this organisation. If a procureur has sent a case to a juge
d'instruct ion, it is that the accused, who must bo guilty since he
is suspected and accused, should be found guilty. If found
guilty on that private inquisition, ho is, as already remarked,
nine-tenths found guilty by the public tribunal to which he is
consigned. If ho then has the audacious insolence of appealing,
it would never do to rebuke the two antecedent processes of
“ justice ” by reversing their actions, except in extreme and
extraordinary cases. On the contrary, the Court of Appeal, in
confirming the former decision, generally punishes the further
offence of the appeal by an aggravation of the sentence.
One more remark upon the French administration of criminal
justice. From of old—dating back to the good old times when
the clerical influence was the predominant power—the French
magistracy and the clergy have always, as a general rule, been
on the best of terms, hand in glove. Woe betide the accused
whom the Bishop deemed it for the interest of the Church to
have keenly pursued and cut down. If the seated judges are
non-removable, the procureurs and the juges cCinstruction are
very removable, very promotable, and very transferable from
one place to another; and very keen are they, of course, after
promotion. And they well know, as they have always well
known, how potent, while silently and secretly so, is the clerical
influence over their fate and fortune. I have before mentioned
that M, Dubois, the able procureur-substitute on the first trial
of our friends, received a groat stop, or rather jump, of pro¬
motion on the evening after their condemnation. I have above
alluded to the fact that the President of the Court of Appeal
which decided on Leymarie’s appeal, is also President of the
Socidtfi de St. Francois Xavier, that great Jesuit martyr and
saint. And it is but a few months ago that the Archbishop of
Toulouse issued a thundering mandement, or episcopal charge,
against le Spiritisme, which must bo put down, lost the ad¬
mitted hundreds of thousands of adepts to which it had so
rapidly grown in France, should continue to grow till they
should put down the Church itself. And it is generally accepted
hero that at no period since the days of Charles X. has the
clerical power been more powerful in France than it is at this
moment. If you should doubt it, look at the recent law it has
Buccoodod in passing respecting the higher public education.
Look, too, at the astounding act of the Prefect of the Seine in
regard to the College Chaptal, the real object of which is pretty
clearly that of leading up to the withdrawal of the control of the
municipal colleges, and especially the appointment of their pro¬
fessors, from the hands of the municipal bodies, who must con¬
tent themselves with the pleasure of paying them. Put all
those things together and judge for yourself whether my
eminent legal friend was very far wrong when he said to mo last
Wednesday that the six men in judicial robes before us wore
“ not judges, and that whatever might bo the strength of his
case, Leymario had no chance in their hands.” Knowing the
overbalancing strength of his case, I could not then believe it.
Alas ! it was too true.
By the way, I before spoke of these judges as being “ in
red.” I had been told so, and expected to see an imposing array
of scarlet, such as we sometimes see on the stage. It proved
that they too were robed in black, the ancient rod being repre¬
sented by a small square bit of red sewn on the left breast,
like an overgrown bit of Legion of Honour ribbon. The hall
of the “ Cour d’Appel, Chambre Corroctionnolle ” was very
handsome, its ceiling ablaze with gilding, but with small
accommodation for the public. Alas, that there was no ac¬
commodation at all for a jury.
In his consid&ants, how do you suppose that the judge
gets over the troublesome fact of Buguet’s own letters to Ley¬
mario, on the face of which there is manifest the entire inno¬
cence of the latter ? I had been curious to see, in the event of
their condemning, how in the world they would deal with those
letters. The mode was very simple and easy. It was “as
easy as lying.” He simply “ excluded ” them (ecarter') from the
case. And why? Because Buguet h,ad answered that they had
been written with a view to publication in the Rerue Spirits.
But on Buguet’s saying that, the judge had himself remarked,
“ But these letters do not seem to have been written for publi¬
cation.” Indeed the shuffling answer was plainly absurd. And
in fact they never had been published; nor was there any
reason in them why they should have been; and yet the judge
gets rid of thorn by excluding them from the case, because Buguet,
the confessed swindler and the proved liar, had said that they
were written for publication. And note, that Buguet had lied
to the judge himself about these very letters. He had first
denied having written them, but had been compelled to admit
them as of his own handwriting. Then came the shuffle about
their having been written f >r publication. Had they been in'
tho case, the judge could not, dared not, bavj condemned.
There is a specimen for you of the reasoning and proof good
enough before a high French court to condemn a Spiritualist
upon..
Tho consid&ant referring to a witness named Chevillard is
just as bad, perhaps worse. But cui bono to expose it to you
and your readers ? Enough to say that as a piece of pretended
proof it is perfectly monstrous. J. L. 0’Sult.ivan.
Paris.
SPIRIT HANDS.
The following is the deposition in favour of materialisation
phenomena which Mi*. W. H. Harrison gavo for tho use of
M. Leymarie’s trial:—
Being scientifically educated, I have studied with great
exactitude and care tho general phenomena of Spiritualism for
many years, and know them to be real, though in a few cases I
have detected and publicly exposed imposture. I have been
present at experiments at which Mr. Cromwell Varley, the
Atlantic cable electrician, and Mr. William Crookes, both eminent
Fellows of tho Royal Society, obtained absolute evidence that
what are known to Spiritualists as matorialisod spirit-forms, were
on those occasions genuine phenomena, and not imposture. In
some of Mr. Crookes’s experiments I saw tho proof given by tho
instruments, but in Mr. Varloy’s experiments I did not do so,
because my duty was to write down the indications of the instru¬
ments as ho called them off. By sending a current of electricity
through tho body of the medium in the cabinet, and by then
reading off tho indications of the recording instruments outside,
we had tho power of testing whether the medium loft the
cabinet to act as a materialised spirit. I have seen living
matorialisod hands where the medium could not possibly have
produced them by imposture; once at the house of Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
London, I clearly and distinctly saw a living materialised
hand, not that of any person present, moving about close to tho
floor within six feet of mo, while the medium was sitting in a
chair. The hand played upon a musical instrument while I was
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875.
looking at it. I saw Buguet taking photographs on one occasion
only, and the account which I published in The Spiritualist oi
June 26th, 1874, I hereby declare to be true.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS ON BOARD H.M.S.
MONARCH.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
H.M.S. Monarch, off Cowes, 11th August, 1875.
Sir,—An occurrence of rather an extraordinary nature
happened to me last night, and I should be glad, should any¬
thing of the sort have come under your notice before, to hear of
the same through your paper.
I had been writing a letter to a friend on Spiritualism, show¬
ing from the Bible how the gifts which God had been pleased to
withhold from his children for so long, had in our days been
restored, and afterwards was listening to a brother officer who
was reading aloud to me a letter which he had addressed to a
dignitary of the Church on the same subject.
When he had finished reading, I remarked that I considered
it a very nice letter, and agreed with all that he had said. The
words were hardly out of my mouth before I felt a cold wind,
and a shower of raps came on my shirt front.' My friend, who1
grew a little nervous, tried to exorcise the spirits, who, I
presume, produced these sounds, and commanded them to cease
rapping, and depart, in the name of the Lord, if they were evil.
At this the rapping grew louder and louder. He then said,
“If the rapping means approval of what I have written, will
you please to indicate the same by rapping three times ? ” and
this they did. He afterwards asked several questions, and they
were answered in the same way.
A friend of mine who has attended several seances lately,
wrote to me only this morning. He says in his letter, “ Edward
(a spirit) again remarked, ‘ What a splendid medium Watson
is.’ ”
I must tell you that this spirit, who has lately been giving a
history of his life on earth to friends of mine, came to us one
evening on board, in compliance with a wish expressed by a
mutual friend, to deliver a message, but was unable to deliver
it because we were sui’rounded by so many evil spirits who
.. would not let him get near us. He saw me, though, and went
back to our friends and made the remark, “ that it was a pity
we sat for manifestations on board the ship, as we were sur¬
rounded by very evil spirits, who would injure us if they had
the chance,” adding, “ I saw Watson: he is a fine medium.
Advise him not to sit again until he can attend our circle.”
This advice I have followed : I have not tried for manifesta¬
tions since. I must add that, although I have sat several times
with friends, and various spirits have stated that I shall be a
“ discerner of spirits,” as St. Paul puts it, yet I had no idea
that I was possessed of sufficient spmtual power for a manifes¬
tation like that I have related as having taken place through
me.—Believe me, dear Sir, most sincerely yours,
William S. Watson,
Assistant-Paymaster, R.N.
MESMERIC HEALING OF THE SICK.
Captain Hudson, of Swansea, who is one of the oldest lec¬
turers on mesmerism in this country, has sent us a circular con¬
taining several cases, illustrating the beneficial effects of mes¬
merism when applied to the cure of disease.
Among the letters in this circular is one by Mr. Skinner, the
minister of Ebenezer Chapel, Nantwich, dated November 18th,
1870, in the course of which he says that a young woman living
in his house, who had not been able to walk for nine years,
being helplessly paralysed, was made to walk across the floor of
the room after she had been one week under Captain Hudson’s
mesmeric treatment; he does not say-whether the cure was per¬
manent. Mr. Skinner records another case in which Captain
Hudson took away pain from which a consumptive woman was
suffering. He adds that Captain Hudson mesmerised a deaf
and dumb boy, after which the boy would turn round at his
call, and it was the first time he had responded to the human
voice since his birth.
The Manchester Examiner and Times of Feb., 1850, narrates
that at a lecture on mesmerism, given by Captain Hudson at
the Town Hall, Manchester, under the patronage of the Mayor,
and in aid of the Nightingale Fund, Captain Hudson produced
on the platform Amelia Harrison, of Rochdale, the use of whose
arm had been restored to her by mesmerism. He also produced
Elizabeth Smith, of 65, Canal-street, Ancoats, who had been
cured of weakness of the chest of three years’ duration. At
the conclusion of the lecture, Sir Joseph Heron, the town clerk,
proposed a vote of thanks to the speaker.
The Naval and Military Gazette of Jan. 31st, 1863, contained
a letter, narrating some cures effected by Captain Hudson, in
the city of Chester. George Lloyds, of 25, Thomas-street,
Chester, suffered from a spinal complaint, and could not stand
when he came to the Captain, but after a course of treatment
was able to walk pretty well.
The Aberdare Times of Feb. 6th, 1864, narrates how Captain
Hudson’s lectures attracted large audiences at the Temperance
Hall there. A young man named Daniel T. Jones had been
deprived of the sight of one of his eyes for nine years, and was
amongst the sensitives operated upon. Captain Hudson, in the
course of the proceedings, induced his mesmeric subjects to
believe that they were blind, and in restoring them to sight
Jones found, to his great astonishment, that ho could see with
the eye of which he had so long lost the use.
In the course of a lecture at the Nantwich Town Hall, a lad,
familiarly known in the town as “ Dummy,” being completely
deaf and dumb, was so operated upon by Captain Hudson as to
hear music, was able to beat time to it accordingly, and was.
then made to dance to it; but the most wonderful effect
of Captain Hudson’s mesmeric power was displayed when
“ Dummy ” repeated after him, in a whispering tone, the words
one, two, three, up to nine, and then the word “ London.” The
articulation was imperfect, as might be expected, but still it
was the case of the dumb being made to speak, as the words
were heard by all present. The circular before us does not give
the date of this occurrence, nor say from what journal the ex¬
tract was quoted. The Staffordshire Weekly Timed for May,
1871, published in Newcastle-under-Lyne, says that one of the
subjects of the lecture was a young man said to have been deaf
and dumb from his birth, but who, under the influence brought
to bear upon him by Captain Hudson, became able to hear and
articulate somewhat imperfectly.
Captain Hudson publishes a letter from Ebenezer Griffiths,
of the Slate Works, Carnarvon, dated June 29th, 1869, setting
forth that he had been lame from childhood, and for the last ten
years he had not been able to walk without a crutch, but since
he had placed himself under Captain Hudson’s treatment ho
could walk without either a crutch or stick.
An extract from the Driffield Observer stated that Captain
Hudson produced on the platform a young girl from Langtoft,
who four years previously had been so totally deaf that she
could not hear a pistol when Capt. Hudson fired it off behind
her head. In two months her hearing was completely restored
to her by mesmeric treatment, so that she could hear even
whispers. Her father, Mr. Ruston, was present, and confinnod
Capt. Hudson’s statement about this case.
Mr. E. S. Hart writes from Ulverstone, Nov. 11th, 1852, stating
that his labour at the desk ha d induce^ serious symptoms of pulmo¬
nary consumption ; in weight he was only eight stone, but after six
months’ treatment weighed nine stone eleven pounds, and en¬
joyed better health than he had had possession of for years. In
addition to this, his deafness of twelve years’ standing had been
removed by mesmeric treatment.
The circular narrates how Miss Griffiths, of Bangor, who had
been given up three times as incurable, while suffering from
consumption, was cured after three weeks’ mesmerising. It also
gives several other cases of the cure of deafness, paralysis, lame¬
ness, rheumatism, and palsy.
The Proces des Spirites, containing the evidence ad¬
vanced at the Paris trials, is on sale at 38, Great Russell-street,
price 2s. If all French-reading Spiritualists were to purchase a
copy, a not inconsiderable sum would soon be raised for the
benefit of M. Leymarie.
A Talking Baby.—The Echo of some time ago pub¬
lished the following statement of its Paris correspondent:—“ The
birth and death of a miraculous child is imported from Saarlouis.
The mother had just been confined, the midwife was holding
forth garrulously on the “ blessed little creature,” and the friends
were congratulating the father on his luck, when somebody
asked what time it was. Judge of the surprise of all on hearing
the new-born babe reply distinctly, “ Two o’clock! ” But this
was nothing to what followed. The company were looking on
the infant with speechless wonder and dismay, when it opened
its eyes, and said, “ I have been sent into the world to tell you
that 1875 will be a good year, but that 1876 will bo a year of
blood.” Having uttered this prophecy it turned on its side and
expired, aged half an hour. The good people of Saarlouis, we
are told, have been quite upset by the miraculous utterance of
the precocious prophet.”
Aug. 20, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST
91
A STRANGE AND STARTLING STORY.
(From the “ New York Sun”)
The subjoined astonishing narrative has been com¬
municated to us, in reply to our letter of inquiry, by an
eminent citizen of New England, a man of clear head,
as little likely to be deluded as any other. He has
consented to its publication on the single condition that
his name and the place of- his residence should not be
mentioned:—
“It was in the month of March, in.sthe year 1855,
a cold night, when we had a bright coal fire in an open
grate in the parlour. Unexpectedly Mr. Home, who
was not so famous then as he has since become, came
in, and at my request he assented to a sitting. We sat
at a little card table, only about eight feet from the
blazing grate of coals, which made the room light after
all other artificial light had been shut off. Nobody was
present but myself, my wife, and Home, a lady visitor
who was in the house having retired to bed in a distant
room up stairs. He sat opposite me with his right
shoulder toward the fire, his feet perhaps an inch from
mine, a small card table between us, and my wife at the
further end. Home soon began to go off into a trance
state, and, as an experiment, I laid upon the floor a
quire of foolscap, and put a lead pencil on it. The
quire of paper was first gently lifted without any
apparent agency and placed upon the table near my
hand. The light from the grate, seven or eight feet
from the. table, enabled me to see everything that was
going on. Home was motionless as a log, leaning back
in his chair.
“ Following the quire of paper came the pencil. It
was flipped up from the floor without any visible person
touching it, and fell upon the paper. Then it slowly
lifted itself, the point resting on the paper. I placed
my face within a foot of it, but could see no hand,
though the light was sufficient, if the hand had been
flesh and blood, to have shown it at a distance of many
feet. The pencil began to write slowly, Home being
still perfectly motionless on the other side of the table.
Having finished its writing, the pencil dropped.
Narrowly watching Home, I looked at him from his
head to his feet, and cast my eyes along his legs, which
were under the table. From near his feet at that
instant there came up a human hand. It moved some
distance, and reached out to me from a point too far
away from Home for him to have reached it without
sitting up and bending forward, which he did not do,
for he continued leaning back as inert as a dead man.
The hand grasped mine and shook it as cordially as if
it had been moved by an old friend. Then it sought to
withdraw. I held it firmly, but it pulled with a force
like that which a person would use who wanted to draw
his hand away. I was thoroughly aroused now, and
resolved that whatever else occurred that hand should
not get away from me. I held it with a grip of iron.
Finding it impossible to get away, it then yielded itself
to my inspection. I could see it was a woman’s hand,
almost preternaturally long, peculiar in shape, but
symmetrical and perfect, and as white as if it were
made of plaster or flour. I could see that it ended at
the wrist; but wishing to substantiate this astounding
fact by other proof than that of the eyes, I passed my
left hand up and down where the arm should be, and
there was nothing there.
“ Then I examined the hand. It would open and
shut as it lay in my hand, to show me, as I suppose,
that it was governed by an intelligent guiding power ;
and it even turned over, as if to afford me every
facility for making the examination. It had perfect
finger nails, perfect articulations, even the wrinldes on
the middle joints, like any other hand, but all was dead
white. Its feeling was neither cold nor warm, but
soft, like that of a lady’s hand enveloped in a kid glove.
Taking hold of it with my left hand and holding it
firmly, I gradually wormed my right forefinger entirely
through the palm, so that it stuck out on the back side
of the hand. The resistance was about like that of
putty—rather soft putty. I pulled out my finger, and
the wound instantly closed up, leaving a sort of cicatrix
like the hollow left by an abscess. Then the hand shut
up again and opened, and lo ! as it was doing this once
more, it all vanished, evaporated, disappeared, leaving
nothing whatever in my hand.
“I am telling you the sober truth. These things
were written down soon after they occurred, and
I have my own and my wife’s senses to corroborate
the fact.
“ I looked again at the floor near Home’s feet. He
had sat from the first in such a position that the direct
light from the grate did not strike his feet, but I could
see everything that was going on. There appeared the
fore part of a hand—a hand only half formed. It had
fingers and no more. These fingers would strike for¬
ward and peck at Home’s legs, apparently as if to draft
from Home the substance by which the hand might
again build itself. Apparently unconscious of out¬
ward things, he would break out in a querulous way
with f Don’t! don’t do that!’ at the same time feebly
kicking at whatever was under the table, but without
moving his body. That remained motionless, leaning
back like a dead body. No attention was paid to this
remonstrance, but the fingers kept pecking and dabbing
at his legs till the whole hand was again built out to
the wrist—a matter of perhaps one or two minutes.
Then the hand came up again, and I expected another
greeting, but was surprised to see it pass around me,
go behind me, and, going to my wife, reach out
and shake hands, with her, after which it disappeared
again.
“Directly afterwards Home’s large guitar—and it
was a pretty heavy one—that had been left in a corner
of the room, lifted itself up to the ceiling, and, turning
over, went circling visibly about the room close to the
ceiling, often directly over our heads; and it was con¬
tinually played upon by invisible fingers—a very pretty
piece of music. Occasionally it would descend and
touch each of us on the head, rising each time to the
ceiling, doing it all in perfect time, the touch being a
sort of emphasis to particular notes. Then it circled
all about the room near the ceiling, the music continu¬
ing just as if some actual person were playing on its
chords.
“ Next the mahogany chairs were all taken up and
sent whirling across the room back and forth all
together, if I remember aright, going through the air
at a height of about three or four feet from the floor.
None of them touched us. Then there came a sound
precisely like that which a flock of sheep would make
scampering over the carpet, some seventy or a hundred
of them; and that ended the manifestation. Home
awoke and was surprised to hear all that had happened.
We then took the paper to the light, and there read or*
it, in her own proper handwriting, the name of my wife’s
cousin, a near and dear friend of hers. I had never
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875,
met her. It was a year or two later, however, that I
saw a daguerrotype of a picture of her as she lay on
her death-bed, and her hands were crossed over the
bosom at rest; and as soon as I saw the picture I
exclaimed, * There is the very hand that shook hands
with me the night we sat with Home.’ I have the
picture now. The hands are peculiar.
“ Now for the conclusion. The lady, who had
retired early to bed, on coming down to breakfast
next morning, said to me, ‘ Whom have you in the
house that plays the guitar so beautifully ? I did not
think either of you played the guitar.’ She too had
heard that music, though she was upstairs and knew
nothing of Home’s presence, or anything else that had
happened. This little fact knocks the brains out of
the theory so pleasantly advanced by those who deny
all truth in such manifestations, that ‘ you think you
saw all this, but] you were psychologized.’
“These facts, as I have narrated them, were written
down at the time, and I have now drawn the story from
the record then made by me, and verified by my
wife.”
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
The following leading article is from The Ilarbinqer of Light
(Melbourne), which arrived by last mail:—
During, and for some time after, the formation of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, considerable discussion
arose on the subject of organisation, and the propriety or other¬
wise of the formation of associations in connection with Spirit¬
ualism. It was argued by the opponents of organisation that
Spiritualism had progressed rapidly without it, and hence there
was no need of it now ; and secondly (and more generally) on
account of the danger of such organisations crystallising and
forming centres of authority, like existing church systems. We
take exception to both these positions as unsound and untenable.
In the first place, the statement that Spiritualism has progressed
without organisation is not true. Organisations have existed
in all the principal centres of Spiritualism, and even the circle
itself is a manifestation of organisation on a small scale, and an
illustration of the necessity of co-operation for mutual develop¬
ment and progress. With regard to the second objection, it is
simply begging the question. The question is—Is organisation
proper ? The possible results that might flow from the inver¬
sion of the idea or intention of such organisation have nothing
to do with the principle. It is our opinion that organisation is
both,!proper and advisable, when the objects sought to be at¬
tained are, in the estimation of those who organise, good.
“ It must bo apparent to all thinking minds that the accom¬
plishment of the results sought for in all organisations where
the object is the development of the individual, and the dis¬
semination of truth, as understood by him, depends entirely on
the disinterestedness of the members composing it. Where sel¬
fishness in any of its multifarious forms intrudes, the element of
inversion, or of disintegration is there, and the attainment of the
full object is impossible ; but where a number of persons, whose
happiness has been augmented by the acquisition of a knowledge
of things not generally known, co-operate with the view of dis¬
seminating that knowledge amongst their fellows .(presuming
their mode of action to be guided by wisdom), the result must
be good, and in the nature of things more powerful for good
than isolated effort. We may instance the case of the local as¬
sociation as evidence of the good of organisation. The pre¬
liminary meeting which led to the establishment of the associa¬
tion consisted of ton persons. They affirmed the desirability of
organisation for their mutual benefit, and for the dissemination
of information on the subject of Spiritualism, and an association
was accordingly fonned, which has materially aided in the pro¬
gress of Spiritualism and free religious thought. It has brought
to the front Mr. Peebles, Messrs. Ross, Tyerman, Manns, Walker,
and many others; and last, though not least, has inaugurated
the popular services at the Temperance Hall, where assembles
every Sunday the largest congregation in Victoria. Would these
objects have been attained without association ? Most certainly
not. Unitary action must ultimate in combination to accom¬
plish any great end. It is a poor, weak policy to hesitate and
draw back at the possible evils that might arise from imper¬
fection in the material. If the principle is right, no minor con¬
siderations should deter us from acting upon it. A few well-
balanced minds at the helm can always prevent any serious
deviation from the course laid down, and warn their less
vigilant brethren of rocks and breakers ahead. There is a
beautiful mutuality in all nature, and in the starry heavens the
telescope reveals to us groups and clusters of suns and planets,
combining and dependent on each other, and working har¬
moniously round a common centre. In social life all the evils of
society may be traced to want of co-operation, from which arises
selfish antagonisms, and in religious matters it is the same.
Truth is evolved from the inner consciousness, and it should be
the aim of all progressive associations to present to the world
their highest conceptions of it, never dogmatizing or seeking to
proselytize, but modestly offering their thoughts for the con¬
sideration of their fellows. We would urge all Freethinkers and
Spiritualists to combine with this object, seeking not the ag¬
grandisement of their association, but the good of humanity;
small associations with this platform, will undoubtedly produce
greater results than would be possible by individual effort.
ADVICE TO MEDIUMS.
The following is extracted by permission from a letter not
originally meant for the public. It is from a lady who has been
for some two years a medium,' and was addressed to another
whose mediumship was just ppening, and, as is so often the
case, with many a stumbling-block. As many among your
readers may be in the same state, the suggestions it contains
may perhaps be found useful by some :—
“ I thought it might be a comfort to you to know that, though
we have been wonderfully taken care of from the other side, at
first we went through troublous experiences. One night wo
were ridiculously led astray by a spirit purporting to be a
child-friend who had been helping before. We fully believe it
to have been some foolish creature who found such trivial tor-
mentings amusing. We have had much more painful expe¬
riences than this—distinct lies told us, which might have
separated us from valued friends if we had not been plain-
spoken. I think my husband’s particular studies have been a
great safeguard : he has always been provided with a number
of questions on subjects which placed us out of the frivolous
sphere. We have always judged our friends by the qualities of
their answers—a severe test, but excellent. For my own part,
I should distrust any spirit who took the trouble to communi¬
cate on a jne^ detail of this life. Such things lie out of their
range, and no spirits worth calling from the vasty deep know
anything about them.
“ I am too young to offer advice, but being an older medium
I will venture, because I think you may find true Spiritualism
such a vast enlarging of your life. Sit in a quiet room, the
same room, at the same hour; if a different hour, arrange it with
the spirits. Have some definite spiritual question to ask, which
will attract good spirits towards you. Only sit with others
equally anxious for the same kind of thing. Better sit alone
always than ever with people who laugh about it, till you your¬
self are firmly established. Be very distrustful at first of any
spirits who give names, but once getting a test or a conviction,
stick to that friend, and ask him to guard you.”
The Davenport Brothers have been in Boulogne, and
spent a few hours there with Mr. H. G. Atkinson.
The Inhhmanitt of Atheism.—Has every suffering,
searching soul, which ever gazed up into the darkness of the un¬
known, in hopes of catching even a glimpse of a divine eye,
beholding all, and ordering all, and pitying all, gazed up in
vain ?..... Oh! my friends, those who believe or fancy that
they believe such things, must be able to do so only through
some peculiar conformation, either of brain or heart. Only want
of imagination to conceive the consequences of such doctrines
can enable them, if they have any love and pity for their fellow-
men, to preach those doctrines without pity and horror. They
know not, they know not, of what they rob a mankind already
but too miserable by its own folly and its own sin, a qiankind
which, if it have not hope in God and in Christ, is truly—as
Homer said of old—more miserable than the beasts of the field.
If their unconscious conceit did not make them unintentionally
cruel, they would surely be more silent for pity’s sake; they
would let men go on in the pleasant delusion that there is a
living God, and a Word of God who has revealed Him to men,
and would hide from their fellow-creatures the dreadful secret
which they think they have discovered—that there is none that
hoaroth prayer, and therefore to Him need no flesh come.—The
Rev. Charles Kingsley,
93
Aug. 20, 1875. THE SPIBITUALIST.
(Eomsponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE ORIGIN OP THE HUMAN SPIRIT.
Sir,—As yon have commented on my letter of last week, I
hope I may fairly rejoin. So pray specify what are the mis¬
quotations of your article on the fire-mist theory of which you
accuse me: misquotation is not honest.
Nowhere in my letter did I call the speculations about fire-mist
yours. I distinctly spoke of them as “ Mi-. Tyndall’s,” and this
I did on your statement. I only hold you responsible for the
introduction of such speculations to Spiritualists as throwing
any true light upon their inquiries.
I traverse your statement that Spiritualists will agree to bo
called away from their laborious researches into the question of
the spirit’s life hereafter by hypothesis regarding its origin.
Let me. add that ours is not a question of horses and ponies, but
of intelligent and immortal spirit-bodies. I don’t think Spirit¬
ualists will see the parallel.
The illustration of the poker cooling is not felicitous. A
poker would not. cool in a./zre-mist, and there was nothing but
firo-mist according to the speculation; no cool atmosphere
at all.
While you hold that Mr. Tyndall’s speculation is a good one
for the ilphysical origin of tho solar system,” a Spiritualist
may surely doubt whether it is a good one for the origin of
the spiritual man. This leads mo to your statement that
“ anybody who says Spiritualism is not a science, condemns
it, because he virtually alleges that Spiritualism is un¬
reliable.” I quite agree that the subject should be studied
scientifically; that is, in an accurate manner. Theft, I
ask, why do men pretending to science sneeringly re¬
fuse to examine it ? Because many of the phenomenal
facts are not explicable by the operation of forces with which
they are in the habit of explaining the ordinary phenomenal
facts of their own material bodies and of the bodies around them,
and they refuse to credit the possibility of any other forces, e.y.,
they maintain that a table must be raised by some trick, because
its rising is against the law of gravitation. The forces at
work to produce materialisation, of whole or partial forms,
the formation of solid objects such as fruit, the passage of solid
objects through other solid objects, all point to the action of
forces which ‘must be very different from those on which the
ordinary scientist relies for his synthetic conclusions. The late
Professor De Morgan said there might be 5,000 potential causes
at work, and it was therefore absurd to stop when we had found
500 and say there were no more. When, then, it is proposed to
study Spiritualistic phenomena in the old lines of scientific
investigation, I hold that it cannot be done, or else, failing to
account for the phenomena by that route, we must deny them
and consider that we have been deluded by some means or
other. That is the reason that all along, since I became
acquainted with the merely physical phenomena (leaving the
intelligent out of the question), I have maintained that the
ordinary school of scientists was not likely to aid us ; they stop
short at the forces they are already acquainted with, .and
deny existence of any others. Spiritualists must rely upon
their own laborious and scientifically conducted investigations
of their subject for the discovery of the laws of tho forces which
cause actions so contrary to what are ordinary, the same can¬
dour and broadness of mind which enabled them to begin tho
inquiry being maintained during its multiplying seances to
observe the conditions, driving piles constantly into the mys¬
terious ground, and not caring to build a house on them until
they are sure of the foundation. All this we can do for ourselves,
and it is vain to wait until the ordinary scientists think fit to
undertake it; only two such have ventured to seek and declare
tho results of their search, and in what odour are they with their
brethren ? And (whilst recognising their candour and courage)
what have they done for the promulgation of Spiritualism ? We
stand at the gate of a new field of facts and forces. We who in
these early days of the subject have borne the ridicule and vitu¬
peration of the day, will have been long in our graves at the time
when Spiritualism as a science shall have made more complete
tho discovery of forces and their laws which will explain not
only physical facts that are now a mystery, but will have thrown
a strong light on that greater mystery, the how and tho where¬
fore of thought whilst cabined in a body of flesh, and of its
potential continuance when the body is no more an organised
aggregation. It is cogitation and hopeful assurance of this kind
which places mo in opposition to any proceeding which tends to
force, as it were, the Spiritualistic inquiry into the hands of
men who, by any agency which the prejudice of education
and habit, and the dread of corporate or social ostracism
can influence, are much less likely to do justice to the subject
than wo are, who, having no such habit, and scorning such.fear,
are sure to give it. Given an ordinary scientist who believes in
this Tyndall idea of the origin of the human body and the
human intelligence from the primeval fire-mist, he would be
compelled to the conclusion that, as the intelligent part of man
(call it soul, spirit, or what you will) grew pari passu with all
the flora and fauna and inanimate matter of the same stratum
of earth on which thinking man made his appearance, like that
fauna and flora, the man, both physical and intelligent, must
undergo the same fate as his fellows on the stratum, and dis¬
integrate at death only to reappear in other forms of life, but to
leave nothing whatever behind ■which can be called the in¬
dividual. Owing his being to exactly the same causes as the
plant or the brute, though more highly organised than these,
a man would, according to the idea in question, die like
them, never to reappear either in this world or in any
other. This is absolutely necessary to the reasonable¬
ness and congruity of Mr. Tyndall’s theory as applied to
man’s spirit, and it is most likely that Mr. Tyndall would
accept the alternative. But can we Spiritualists, in our
scientific investigation of Spiritualism, accept anything of tho
kind in the face of the oft-repeated facts which, in the course of
that investigation, tell us some sort of a body and some sort of
accompanying intelligent agent does survive the unanimated
form of flesh ? I say again, therefore, let us cease to beg the
scientists to take our subject in hand. The science of Spirit¬
ualism is a new one, including new and as yet unmeasured
forces. Wo who have ascertained the facts are more fitted to
examine the forces at work in them than those who deny tho
facts without examining them.
I rejoice to hear that tho scientific organ, Nature, speaks re¬
spectfully of us poor Spiritualists. But there still remain in
print somewhere the non-complimentary comments of Sir W.
Thompson* at Glasgow, of Mr. Tyndall at Belfast, of Dr. Car¬
penter in the Quarterly and wherever he can find an audience,
of one Drincks, of whom I can learn nothing, and of tho
Popular Science Review’s passim whenever it stumbles on a
work in which Spiritualism is so much as alluded to. Sed hcc
suntnugas. As I said before, let them keep all the vituperation
to themselves.
In all that I have said I trust that you will only see I desire
that the subject of Spiritualism should have fair play, and not
be mixed up with things that run on other lines, and so, possibly,
divert us from an investigation which, Heaven knows, is com¬
plex and obscure enough to try our individual attention and-
acuteness. With many other Spiritualists I cannot but recog¬
nise the disinterestedness with which you have embarked on
our unpopular subject, and I have a strong feeling that it is
our duty in all ways to aid you in your efforts to spread a
knowledge of it. J. M. Gully.
[In Dr. Gully’s letter of last week the words “ intellects you tell us we
cannot comprehend ” constitute a misquotation, also the statement that
the article invited us to respect men who call Spiritualists “idiots” and
“ drivelling fools.” It did not speak of “ th e logical reasonableness of
the flre-mist theory of man’s immortal spirit;” it merely spoke of it as an
open question. There is a difference of opinion between Dr. Gully and
ourselves, in his view that Spiritualists should make no inquiry where the
human spirit came from, and that if it originated in a prosess of evolu¬
tion in conjunction with matter, it of necessity dies with the matter which
clothed it during earth-life. As we stated at the outset, Professor Tyndall
does not hold the fire-mist theory of the origin of the human spirit; he
spoke of it simply as an open question. The disciples of Allan Kardec
hold that matter and spirit were developed side by side, by a process of
evolution. In reply to another part of the above letter by Dr. Gully, the
nebular hypothesis never assumed that the supposed flre-mist filled all
space, but only a little more than the area of the present solar system, so
that it would cool by radiation just the same as a red-hot poker. The'
globular form of the planets, and the fact that they are flattened at the
poles, tend to show that they were once in a fluid or plastic state.—Ed.]
THE HEART AND THE UNDERSTANDING: RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
Sir,—Let me say a few words on disputes between religious
and scientific teachers, which are referred to in your articles in
I'he Spiritualist for Aug. 6 and Aug. 13. Hard words, rash
speculations, and inaccurate accusations proceed from scientific
and religious teachers alike, but not from all scientific or from
all religious teachers; and it is to be desired that those who seek
to instruct the head and the heart shall strive to be courteous
towards each other in language, and cautious lest they mis¬
understand or misrepresent the alignments of those from whom
they differ. We commonly observe that the man who loses his
temper in an argument is generally the one who is in tho
wrong, and passion and injustice are signs of physical and
* It was not Sir W. Thomson, but a lesser Professor Thomson, who
afterwards also apologised for his utterances.—Ed.
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875.
moral weakness. In the Church of England we have Dean
Stanley always urging young clergymen to cultivate the acquaint¬
ance of men of science, and he rightly tells them that they will
derive great advantage from so doing, and the laity at large will
in time reap the benefit of such intercourse.
In his Belfast address Professor Tyndall, remarking upon the
spirit of the Middle Ages, says—(I quote from his address pub¬
lished by Messrs. Longmans* Green, and Co.)—“ Natural events,
instead of being traced to physical, were referred to moral causes;
while an exercise of the phantasy, almost as degrading as the
Spiritualism of the present day, took the place of scientific
speculation.” Now this language is neither polite nor instructive,
and we may well pray to be delivered from “ scientific specu¬
lation ” coming from Professor Tyndall, until he has frankly ad¬
mitted and apologised for his error. Let two or three repre¬
sentative Spiritualists who have seen and heard an accordion
play, under test conditions, without the aid of human hands or
mechanical contrivance, write out very carefully their statements,
and ask Professor Tyndall to give his solution of the matter
worded for publication. Having publicly insulted Spiritualists,
he can hardly wish to evade giving a concise and definite and
public reply to such a request if courteously tendered to him.
I have reason to be confident that much good will arise to all
parties if this line is politely and firmly adopted, and I ear¬
nestly hope it may be, and that speedily.
The Bishop of Natal lately expressed his views on levitations,
etc., in the middle ages, in a somewhat similiar spirit. As I had,
years ago, received great kindness from this truly Christian and
noble-hearted Bishop, I ventured to lay before him what I con¬
sider to be a practical or scientific refutation of his arguments,
such as he may experience for himself, and on the day of his
return to Natal he was so good as to write, promising to give
careful consideration to those arguments from stated facts duly
authenticated. I know well that he wii/, in course of time, care¬
fully inquire into these phenomena, and I venture to hope that
his inquiry will result in increase of knowledge to himself and
the Church, and will help greatly to bring about a reconciliation
between the claims of the heart and of the understanding, and
“ enable them ” (to quote Professor Tyndall’s address once more)
in coming times to dwell together in unity of spirit and in the
bond of peace.” Hopeful.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—I desire to inform you that I received £3 from you,
given to aid my work by “Khoda Bux,” whom I desire to thank
for the same. Will you also kindly insert my acknowledgment
of the receipt of 5s. and Is. per Mr. Burns; also 2s. 8d. in
stamps from Mr. Pearce. R. Cogman.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road.
VEGETARIANISM AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I have been a vegetarian for nearly thirty years, and
have heard many queer arguments for flesh-eating, as for
example, that our teeth were made to chew flesh and our
intestines to digest it; but that “ medical men should be puzzled
to know whence a vegetarian gets enough phosphorus to build
up his frame ” is queerer than even the teeth and intestines
difficulty. The bones of every creature, herbivorous, fru-
giverous, and carnivorous, consist of phosphate of lime, that is,
of phosphorus, oxygen, and calcium; and if sheep and cattle
get phosphorus out of grass, and monkeys out of nuts, why
should a vegetarian be at a disadvantage ?. Medical men
generally know something of chemistry, and I would ask,
whether there is any fruit, grain, or root which does not contain
phosphorus ? St. Mungo.
NATIONAL.ASSOCIATION ELECTIONS.
Sir,—I have much pleasure in giving your correspondent
“ X ” the information he asks as to the future mode of electing
the members of Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Ten days prior to the annual meeting every
member will receive a list of all persons who have been nomi¬
nated to the office. Every member of the Association who shall
have paid up all his subscriptions will be eligible for election as a
member of Council, provided he shall have been nominated in
writing by one or more members of the Association, and such
nomination shall have been forwarded to the secretary fourteen
days before the annual meeting. If no more persons .are nomi¬
nated than are to be elected, such persons will be elected by
virtue of their nomination. If more are nominated than arq
to be elected, a vote will be taken at the annual meeting,
and those will be declared elected who have the majority of
votes so taken. Members present will, of course, give their own
votes; members who cannot be present may vote by proxy—
that is, they may send their votes in writing. All proxies must
be deposited at the offices of the Association at least 48 hours
prior to the meeting. The annual meeting will be held evei'y
year in the month of May, and due notice of the day, with a
list of persons eligible for election, will be given by the Council.
Your correspondent can have a copy of the rules on application
to the Secretary at the offices of the Association, 38, Great
Russell-street.—Yours truly, E. Dawson Rogers.
Eose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
A TRUE SPIRIT-ARTIST.
Sir,—The following cutting from to-day’s Times (August 4th)
may perhaps be interesting to some of your readers. It is from
a review of a work which has just been published :—
“Few sadder instances of genius unrecognised and vast
energy and work unrewarded by either fame or fortune are to
be met with in the lives of the painters than in this memoir of
William Muller—a painter who spent a young life in the
worship of his art, unknown to the public of his day, ignored
by the Academy, with scarce an acquaintance among the eminent
artists of the time, and yet such a master that his pictures now
command a price of thousands. His ‘ Chess Players,’ painted
in 1843, which ranks among the most striking examples of its
kind in the English school, although not thought worthy by
himself of being sent to any Exhibition, was actually dashed
off in a couple of days, and was bought by a friend of
the easel for £25, destined some day, as we have lately
seen, to bring its possessor the enormous sum of 4,000
guineas. The story of the way in which this picture
was painted, as related to the author of the memoir by
his pupil, Mr. Harry Johnson, while of technical importance
as illustrating the peculiar method always adopted by Muller,
is singularly interesting in telling of the fine artistic nature of
the man. He never laboured at his pictures, and seems always
to have worked on the spur of the moment, with a fire and
rapidity of execution that was marvellous, often beginning and
finishing a picture the same day, as he did the “ Good Samari¬
tan ” and another of his finest works, the “ Moses commanding
Darkness over the Land of Egypt.” Speaking of the “ Chess
Players,” which Mr. Johnson saw Muller paint from first to last,
he says:—
“£ It was Muller’s habit to rise early, and after a slight break¬
fast he would rapidly outline the subject of the picture to be
painted in chalk or pen and ink ; and then, setting his palette,
he used often to take up his guitar, and, sitting down on a sofa,
he would bring out a few notes of some familiar airs in a sort of
abstracted way, earnestly gazing up all the time at the board or
canvas on the easel. Having made up his mind what ought to be
done, he would rise suddenly, and, throwing down his guitar,would
commence painting rapidly, like one inspired, placing the thick
pigments on the canvas without hesitation, and almost without
stopping. He had wonderful power of wrist, and he never
seemed to tire when at work.’ ”
When we think of Holman Hunt occupying years upon that
piece of exquisite sentimentality the “ Shadow of the Cross,” we
may well call Muller’s “ lightning ” manner that of an inspirational
painter. But where are the grand works of our Spiritualistic
claimants to inspired art? Is it early rising that they lack, or
the slight breakfast, or the guitar to soothe and hannonise, or
is it that perfect instruments for the other world’s use, such as
Muller was, are rare ? Alpha.
RELIGION AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The belief in another world, and another or continued
existence in that world, has always been included in a religious
faith; hence we see how difficult it is to shake off the connec¬
tion, particularly when we find so many Spiritualists regarding
the new development as a miraculous revelation. I need but refer
to the opinions of Mr. Newton Crosland, and also to Mr. Thomas
Brevior, in the Spiritual Magazine of March, in his reply to me
as to whether modern Spiritualism is a religion, in which he de¬
clares that Spiritualism is a “ link between religion and science,”
but in what respect he does not explain. Mr. A. R. Wallace
tells us that the spirits are no nearer to a knowledge of a God,
and if such be the case the unclothed spirit can bo no more a
link between science and religion than it was before when in
the flesh. But in one respect the facts and science of
Spiritualism, like the facts of other sciences, must influence
religious beliefs so far as demonstrating the scientific
errors belonging to such ancient beliefs. But there is little
need of discussion. Facts are the best arguments, and like
Aug. 20, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
the facts of astronomy and of geology, will speak for them¬
selves, and have their duo weight in course of time. Now,
Christians have accepted the facts of astronomy and geology,
and in all probability they will come to accept the facts of
Spiritualism as not at variance with what they deem to be
essential to their belief. Mr. Howitt and others, I believe, have
already done so, whilst Mrs. Hardinge and others, I need not
name, are rather positively anti-Christian, so that the question
remains an open one, and all we can do is to preach toleration
on all sides : pure toleration and freedom of opinion are spirit¬
ual gifts, whereas dogmatism and denunciation are most anti¬
spiritual. But a little more modest doubt of self and loyal
deference to evidence of fact, and wo cannot be far from
such truth and aspiration as must constitute the funda¬
mental basis of true religion, for “ Truth,” said Plato, “ is
the body of God, as light is its shadow.” But if there be. a link
anywhere between science and religion, it will be found in the
heart and emotions, rather than in the belief in a future or pro¬
longed existence, and the tree must be judged by its fruits.
What is religion ? I reply in the words of an eminently pious
philosopher, Sir James Mackintosh, “ In that higher sense in
which morality denotes sentiment, it is more exactly true to say
that religion depends on morality, and springs from it. Virtue
is not the conformity of.outward actions to a mle, nor is religion
the fear of punishment or the hope of reward. Virtue is the
state of a just, prudent, benevolent, firm, and temperate mind.
Religion is the whole of those sentiments which such a mind
feels towards an infinitely perfect being,” &c. (Life of Mackin¬
tosh, II., 120-123.) Max Muller says the so-called religions of
Buddha and of Confucius seem to ignore the existence of a God
as the Nirwana of the Buddhist seems to ignore the existence
of a future state, and to hold life to be an evil. Under this
consideration, virtue and morality must be considered to be re¬
ligion, if the true religion is to bo retained in respect to
such belief; but. compassion towards suffering humanity, as I
have remarked before, seems to have chiefly influenced the
founders of most religions, and I think must be considered as
fundamental to true spirituality. Hkney G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Gai e, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Mbs. 'Woodfoede left town last week for Hastings, and
wishes to inform friends that her address until further notice
will be 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Dttbino the past week Mr. W. H. Harrison has been in
North Wales, inquiring into the position of Spiritualism in the
various towns along the coast.
The next Conversazione of the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists will be held at 38, Great Russell-street,
on Wednesday, the 1st of September.
Mb. Tyeeman has been lecturing at Newcastle, New
South Wales, also at Sydney, and doing much good for the
cause. His intended visit to the United States is postponed.
Buskin on Modebn Society.—Mr. Buskin, in a recent
number of Fors Clavir/era, has fallen foul of a writer who has
offended him. In the following passage he professes to have
laid his finger on the root of the disease which is dissolving
modern society : “ It is quite possible for the simplest workman
or labourer for whom I write to understand what the feelings of
a gentleman are, and share them, if he will, but the crisis and
horror of this present time are that its desire of money, and the
fulness of luxury dishonestly attainable by common persons,
are gradually making churls of all men; and the nobler passions
are not merely disbelieved, but even the conception of them
seems ludicrous to the ordinary churl mind; so that, to take
only so poor an instance of them as my own life—because I
have passed it in almsgiving, not in fortune-hunting ; because I
have laboured always for the honour of others, not my own, and
have chosen rather to make men look to Turner and Luini than
to form or exhibit the skill of my own hand; because I have
lowered my rent, and assured the comfortable lives of my poor
tenants, instead of taking from them all I could force for the
roofs they needed; because I love a good walk better than a
London street, and would rather watch a seagull fly than shoot
it, and rather hear a thrush sing than eat it; finally, because I
never disobeyed my mother, because I have honoured all women
with solemn worship, and have been kind even to the unthank¬
ful and the evil; therefore the hacks of English art and
literature wag their heads at me, and the poor wretch who
pawns the dirty linen of his soul daily for a bottle of sour
wine and a cigar, talks of the 4 effeminate sentimentality of
Ruskin.’ ”
3|r*)bttutai
NEWCASTLE.
There was a seance last Thursday evening at the Old Free¬
masons’ Hall, Newcastle. Although the two lady mediums
were not in attendance, it was decided to sit for materialisations.
Mr. Crawford went into the cabinet, but no results were
obtained, owing in a great measure to more than one of the
sitters becoming entranced, and interfering with the harmony
of the meeting. Misses Wood and Fairlamb will be away at
Cambridge for the next three weeks. The Newcastle society is
progressing, and steadily increasing in numbers.
NEWSPAPER CONTROVERSY ON SPIRITUALISM.
The controversy in the Newcastle Chronicle closed last week,
and among the letters inserted was the following:—“ When I first
read Mr. Robinson’s query respecting the mind, I just said to
myself,‘Now here is a query which will serve for discussion
for an indefinite period in the Weelcly Chronicle, and when the
discussion is closed it will be because the editor is tired of it,
and not because the subject is exhausted. The controversialists,
when they are done, will know as much about the subject as
they knew when they commenced, simply because it is one of
those subjects about which it is impossible. to arrive at an in¬
controvertible conclusion.’ The only possible good to be derived
from the discussion of a subject of this nature is that it pro¬
motes the exercise of the reflective faculties, and, in my philo¬
sophy, exercise means development and increased power. I
have long been a believer to some extent in the comparatively
modern science of phrenology, the fundamental principles of
which are—that the brain is the organ of the mind; that the
brain is a plurality of organs, and not a single organ ; and that
size is a measure of power, conditions being equal. But in
what way the brain is the organ of the mind I neither protend
to understand nor explain. I simply know this, that in this
world I can have no idea of the mind, of mental manifestations
or phenomena, without brain. But to those who believe that brain
or matter is everything, I will give a nut to crack, in the shape
of a story told by the late Dr. Pyle, of Earsdon :—One winter
evening we had Mr. T.P. Barkas giving us a lecture on ‘ Physio¬
logy,’ and Dr. Pyle occupied the chair. After the meeting, Mr.
Barkas, Dr. Pyle, and a few friends accompanied me to partake
of a little supper. During an interesting conversation round
the table, the transition from physiology to phrenology was
easy. Mr. Barkas was a believer in the latter science, and Dr.
Pyle was a disbeliever, but had no very pronounced opinion on
the subject. ‘I will tell you a story,’ said Dr. Pyle, ‘of a fatal
accident which occurred a short distance from where we are
sitting. (I remembered the accident, although only a boy when
it occurred.) A workman, in attempting to leap on a waggon,
to take the rope off after the set arrived at the bank head,
slipped his foot and fell before the waggons, and the whole set
passed over his head. I arrived on the spot while the man was
lying, and,, seeing his brains on the waggon way, I of course
concluded that the man was dead. To my horror he opened his
eyes, recognised me, and said, “ Doctor, do you think I will get
better?” I could make no reply, and the man almost immedi¬
ately died.’ Extraordinary as this story may appear, I guarantee
that the story was told as I have told it, and those who knew
Dr. Pyle will not believe him capable of telling a falsehood. Here
was life and consciousness when the man’s brain was out of
his cranium.—G. Hallewill, Seaham Harbour.”
BIRMINGHAM.
There is very little stirring here in spiritual matters just
now: the Sunday meetings are discontinued for the summer
months. Mr. Reddalls is still holding mock seances; his fellow-
secularists have become disgusted at his conduct. Dr. Monck,
the medium, is still here, but will shortly leave for the West.
CARNARVON.
SPIRITUALISM IN CARNARVON.
Information relating to Spiritualism was first carried to Car¬
narvon six years ago by Mr. H. J. Hughes, photographic artist,
who had gained a knowledge of it two years previously, in con¬
sequence of having attended a voice seance with Mrs. Mary
Marshall, the younger, at 13, Bristol Gardens, Paddihgton. He
afterwards investigated at home, and discovered the late Mrs.
Hughes to be a physical and impressional medium ; the mani¬
festations thus obtained in his own house thoroughly convinced
him of the truth of the subject. Mr. Hughes than began to
speak to his friends about it, more especially to those connected
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 20, 1875.
■with the Carnarvon Calvinistic Methodist Church, of which he
was a member; he also made known the facts in the Sunday-
school. Gossip about Spiritualism then spread through Car¬
narvon like wildfire, the result being that many persons wished
to see manifestations; accordingly he gave several influential
residents facilities for seeing the phenomena in his own home.
Mrs. Hughes obtained tilting manifestations at the first seance,
and at subsequent sittings a young lady was present who spoke
in the trance state, and became clairvoyant; once while in the
trance she saw the departed mother of a boy who was present,
and told him that he would be able to see “ the angel.” In less
than two minutes afterwards the boy saw his mother, and a ser¬
vant present saw the spirit at the same time. Some of the specta¬
tors were not satisfied, and thought too much imagination was
brought into play, so Mrs. Hughes asked the spirit, “ could she
shake hands with either of the persons who saw her?” The
spirit said through the trance medium to the boy, “Come for¬
ward, and if God permit I will shake your hand.” She did so,
volently, and the boy, who was not entranced, saw her at the
same time ; but the spectators throughout thought that the boy
was shaking his own hand, either purposely or under mesmeric
influence; they wanted something more convincing. Mr.
Hughes said, “ Can the spirit lift the boy a few inches from the
floor ?” and the reply was, “If God permit, and to convince
you I will try. ” The spirit-mother came forward again; she
was described by the boy as surpassingly beautiful, and magnifi¬
cently dressed; he said ho felt her arms on his sides, and he was
gradually raised up and placed on the centre of the table.
Although the light was very low, Mr. Hughes saw this, and he
believes that all the others did the same, for they had nothing
more to say: the boy, who was very frightened, was then taken
off the table and put on the floor. Nine persons were present
at this seance, and it made a deep impression on their minds.
By this time the members of the Methodist Church began to
whisper that Spiritualism was against the Bible ; it was witch¬
craft, raising the devil, fortune-telling, and everything that was
wicked; consequently, the position of Mr. Hughes began to get
rather warm. He was warned privately that he had better
desist, but, as he paid no attention to the rebuke, he was invited
to appear before three ministers and several deacons, nine of
them altogether; but, having posted himself well up in the
evidence that most of the good men mentioned in the Bible
were thomugh Spiritualists, and in some cases mediums also,
he thoroughly beat his pastors in argument. They then told
him ho might believe in Spiritualism himself, but must not
preach it or disseminate its literature. Mr. Hughes continuod
to woi’k as before, so there was a largo meeting of several
hundreds of the members of the chapel; the deacons told the
members that they had privately warned Mr. Hughes, who was
introducing a very dangerous kind of diabolism into Carnarvon.
He was accordingly turned out of the church by a largo show of
hands; a dozen or two did not vote, aud the deacons did not
ask those who might be in his favour to vote at all. Since that
time he has attended the Church of England services. Deacons
and ministers of the Methodist Chapel have of late asked him
to come back to it again, now that Spiritualism is more popular
and better Understood, but he declined unless they retracted in
public what they had said against him in public. He further
added, that his convictions were as strong as ever about
Spiritualism. When they turned him out they had also ex¬
pressed the opinion to him that his belief in phrenology was
against the Bible, and contrary to the doctrine of the “ fall ”
through the sin of Adam.
At the present time there are about a dozen Spiritualists only
in Carnarvon, who carry on their inquiries in strict privacy.
LEICESTER.
The following poem was given impromptu at the close of an
address, delivered in the trance state, a short time ago, in the
Spiritualist Society’s Rooms at Leicester. The beautiful ideas
it embodies were thought by the hearers to bo worthy the atten¬
tion of Spiritualists generally; nay, more, it was felt that the
poem appeals to all those, by whatever name they may be
called, who are seeking to attain—to realise, in truth—the
higher life; for as Henry Sutton, in his Evangel of Love, so
truly says, “ Thought is born to strike upon thought, and feeling
upon feeling, spite of distance, spite of time.” In this matter-
of-fact ago selfishness seems to grow apace, and the bond of
spiritual brotherhood seems almost forgotten.
THE HIGHEB LIFE.
There is a life above the world,
'Tis higher, holier, far;
’Tis purer than the snows of earth,
Or rays of sun or star.
Just as the roseate blush of morn
Steals softly o’er the hills,
And, deepeniugdnto gold, reveals
The flowers and rippling rillsl;
So comes the higher, holier life:
It stealetb o'er the soul
As angel music deep enchains
With power beyond control.
It is not brought—it is inborn—
Life of the spirit’s life;
Enshrined and yet outflowing e’er
With mystic influence rife.
The spirit’s life, the spirit’s love,
Few seem on earth to know;
They catch but glimpses by the way,
Where light should ever glow.
Then yield thee to its mystic power
Whene’er it beckons thee:—
'Twill give thee angels’ food, and strength
To dare, to do, and be. E. N.
Db. Sexton at the Cavendish Booms.—On Sunday
evening last the audience at those rooms was somewhat larger
than usual. The subject of Dr. Sexton’s discourse was “ Sacred
Things,” which he divided into—l. Sacred Books; 2. Sacred
Ages in the World’s History; 3. Sacred Places ; 4. Sacred
Persons. On each of these topics he dwelt at considerable
length, explaining the true origin of the “ sacred ” as contra¬
distinguished from the profane, and showing the large amount of
truth contained in ancient principles, which he said there was
great danger of modern iconoclasm sweeping away. The dis¬
course was listened to with attention by all present. On Sunday
next the subject will be “ The Ancient Sentence on Man to Toil
and Suffer.” Service at seven ; admission free.
answebs to cobrespondents.
W.—The photographer in question perpetrated the impositions
when in circumstances of great destitution, urged on perhaps by
his accomplices. The last person we know of that he attempted
to deceive was Mr. Thomas Slater, who to his sorrow detected
the trick.
A. S.—Brighton: Your suggestion that the Spirit Teachings shall
be published separately in book form is a very good one; not a
few desire to see it done. Several Spiritualists should baud
together and publish the same, talcing all risks.
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publications on sale.
JOHN EBAY. Hon. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. II a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
OUL READING; or, Pstchometbical Delineation
of Character.—J. MUBEAY SPEAB announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OK, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES.
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition,
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of Action. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
Action, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 28, Great Russell-st., London W.C.
Aug. 20, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGi\ MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s.views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Od.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition. 5s.
RESEARCHES IN TilE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large nuniber of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7a Od.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Od.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age;
Science''and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pnenmatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit- and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New: the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12100., 500 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. _ The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
‘ clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it wifi be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
5s. fkl.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
ftom a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole Of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. (id.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. Od.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are Included in the work. 12s. Od.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Dauskin, 4s. Od.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieiees of music
and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Od.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Cd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of bis
subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS,, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Od.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one),- Od.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Od.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Od.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. od.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through'a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE, INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. od.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conaut. 7s. Od.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. Gd.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. Gs. Gd.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. od.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. Od. . ,
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 6s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Od.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts.' 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P.
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Od. , .... . _
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER, By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer. 1766. 2s. fld.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman. Is.
iv THE SPIRITUALIST. , Aug.'20, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYOHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwip Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition hy the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. (id.) 3s. Sd.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepiie Seer.". .t. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . . . .76
The Teacher. . „ II. „ . . . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. ,. ■. • • • • .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . . . .76
The Thinker. ,, V. ,, . , . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . , . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .. . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , ,40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . .40
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmohial Man, or Thoughts for che Age . . . . . . 4 ,0
Events in the Life of & Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . .,70
Philosophy of Special Providence . . '. . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . ... .40
Penetralia; ContainingHarmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .60
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . ... ..70
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . . .60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . ,.20
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . .... .70
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .' . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
Thr Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . '. .' .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . ... 6 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)  . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . , . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll, Cam. .   10 0
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers! Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .50
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robei’t H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember; an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . ' , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools .. . ... . . . .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d,
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each. , j
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton: 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; fo. Mrs.
Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), is. each. , * „ _ - ' '
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-sireet, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchinan, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jonos, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association, is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and Lealthf u
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February. 1876.
'IflXPERIENCKS OF HAEE1),"PRINCE 6f~PERSIA:
JlLI Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted hy
the Spiritual community.
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 650 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contaip,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus ;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa,
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interestinig
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—arid a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these Bee Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also he given in the body of the work and in tbe copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of C.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mbs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W; or to Mr. T, Buxton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated hy the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in Hi
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of’God-
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation. 1
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
,, 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod,
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; A.\o
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C.
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
abovo-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.O.
