A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fClEflCE /ND ETHIC? OF ?PiF(ITUyVEI?M.
No. 19.—Vol. I.
LONDON:
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
MESMERISM, CLAIRVOYANCE, & SPIRITUALISM.*
BY ALFRED RUSSELL WALLACE, E.Z.S., F.R.G.S.,
President of the Entomological Society, Author of “The Malay Archipelago"
and “ Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection."
Certain individuals are gifted with unusual powers
of perception, sometimes by the ordinary senses leading
to the discovery of new forces in nature, sometimes in a
manner which no abnormal power of the ordinary senses
will account for, but which imply the existence of
faculties in the hitman mind of a nature analogous to
those which are generally termed supernatural, and are
attributed to the action of unembodied intelligences. It
will be seen that we are thus naturally led up to higher
phenomena, and ai’e enabled, to some extent, to bridge
over the great gulf between the so-called natural and
supernatural.
I wish first to call my reader’s attention to the re¬
searches of Baron Reichenbach, as detailed in Dr.
Gregory’s translation of his elaborate work. He observed
that persons in a peculiar nervous condition experienced
well-marked and definite sensations on contact with
magnets and crystals, and in total darkness saw luminous
emanations from them. He afterwards found that
numbers of persons in perfect health and of superior
intellect could perceive the same phenomena. As an
example, I may mention that among the numerous
persons experimented on by Baron Reichenbach were :—
Dr. Endlicher, Professor of Botany and Director of
the Botanic Garden of Vienna.
, Dr. Nied, a physician at Vienna, in extensive practice,
very active and healthy.
. M. Wilhelm Hochstetter, son of Professor Hochstetter,
of Esslingen.
M. Theodore Kotschy, a, clergyman, botanist," and
well-known traveller in Africa and Persia;. a power¬
ful, vigorous, and perfectly healthy man.1
. Dr. Huss, Professor of; Clinical Medicine, Stockholm,
and physician to the King of Sweden..
Dr. Ragsky, Professor of Chemistry in the Medical
and Surgical Josephsakademie in Vienna.
M. Constantin Delhez, a French philologist, residing
in Vienna.
M. Ernst Pauer, Consistorial Councillor, Vienna.
M. Gustav Auschnetz, Artist, Vienna.
Baron von Oherlaender, Forest Superintendent in
Moravia.
All these saw the lights and flames on magnets, and
described the various details of their comparative size,
form and colour, their relative magnitude on the positive
and negative poles, and their appearance under various
conditions, such a1s combinations of several magnets,
images formed by lenses, &c.; and their evidence exactly
confirmed the descriptions already given by the “ sen¬
sitive ” patients of a lower class, whose testimony had
been objected to, when the observations were first
published.
In addition to these, Dr. Diesingt Curator in the
Imperial Academy of Natural History at Vienna, and
the Chevalier Hubert von Rainer, Barrister of Klagenfurt,
did not see the luminous phenomena, but were highly
sensitive to the various sensations excited by magnets
and crystals. About fifty other persons in all conditions
of life, of all ages, and of both sexes, saw and felt the
same phenomena. In an elaborate review of Reichen-
bach’s work in the “ British and Foreign . Medico-
Chirurgicat Review,” the .evidence of these1 twelve
gentlemen, men of position and science, and three of
them medical men, is completely ignored, and it is again
and again asserted that the phenomena are subjective.
The only particle of argument to support this view is,
that a mesmeric patient was by suggestion made to see
“ lights ” as well without as with a magnet. It appears
to me, that it would be about as reasonable to tell
Gordon Gumming or Dr. Livingstone that they had never
seen a real lion, because, by suggestion, a score of
mesmeric patients can be made to believe they see lions
in a lecture room. Unless it can be proved that Reichen¬
bach and these twelve gentlemen, have none of them
sense enough to apply simple tests (which, however, the
details of the experiments show, were again and again
applied), I do not see how the general objections made
in the above-mentioned article, that Reichenbach is not
* This article is republished by permission from Mr. Wallace's pamphlet,
The Scientific Aspect of the Supernatural (F. Farrah, 282, Strand), now out of
print
a physiologist, and that he did not apply sufficient tests,
can have the slightest weight against the mass of
evidence he adduces. It is certainly not creditable to
modem science, that these elaborate investigations should
be rejected without a particle of disproof; and we can
only impute it to the distasteful character of some of
the higher phenomena produced, and which it is still
the fashion of professors of the physical sciences to ignore
without examination. I have seen it stated also, that
Reichenbach’s theory has been disproved by the use of
an electro-magnet, and that a patient could not tell
whether the current was on or off. But where is the
detail of this experiment published, and how often has
it been confirmed, and under what conditions ? And if
true in one case, how does it affect the question, when
similar tests were applied to Reichenbach’s patients; and
how does it apply to facts like this, which Reichenbach
gives literally by the hundred ? “ Prof. D. Endlicher
saw on the poles of an electro-magnet, flames forty inches
high, unsteady, exhibiting a rich play of colours, and
ending in a luminous smoke, which rose to the ceiling
and illuminated it.” (Gregory's Trans, p. 342). The
least the deniers of the facts can do, is .to request these
well-known individuals who gave their evidence to
Reichenbach, to repeat the experiments again under
exactly similar conditions, as no doubt in the interests
of science they would be willing to do. If then, by
suggestion, they can all be led to describe equally well
defined and varied appearances when only sham magnets
are used, the odylic flames and other phenomena will
have been fairly shown to he very doubtful. But as
long as a few negative statements only are made, and
the whole body of facts testified to by men at least
.pqual in scientific attainments to their opponents are left
untouched,no unprejudicedindividual can fail to ackno w¬
ledge that the researches of Reichenbach have established
the existence of a vast and connected series of new and
important natural phenomena.. Doctors Gregory, and
Ashburner in England, state that they have repeated
several of Reichenbach’s experiments, under test condi¬
tions, and have found them quite accurate.
Mr. Rutter, of Brighton, has made, quite indepen¬
dently, a number of curious experiments,' which he has
detailed in his little work on Magnetised Currents,
and, the Magnetoscope, and which were witnessed by
hundreds of medical and scientific men. He showed
that the various metals and other substances, the con¬
tact of a male or female hand, or even of a letter
written by a male or female, each produced distinct
effects on the magnetoscope. And a single drop of
water from a glass in which a homoeopathic globule had
been dissolved, caused a characteristic motion of the
instrument when dropped upon the hand of the operator,
even when he did not know the substance employed.
Dr. King corroborates these experiments, and states
that he has seen a decillionth of a grain of silex, and a
billionth of a grain of quinine cause motion by means
of this apparatus. Every caution was taken in conduct¬
ing the experiments, which were equally successful
when a third party was placed between Mr. R. and the
magnetoscope. Magnets and crystals also produced
powerful effects, as indicated by Reichenbach. Yet Mr.
Rutter’s experiments, like Reichenbach’s, are ignored
by our scientific men, although during several years he
offered every facility for their investigation.
The subject of Animal Magnetism is still so much a
disputed one among scientific men, and many of its
alleged phenomena so closely border on, if they do not
actually reach what is classed as supernatural, that I
wish to give a few illustrations of the kind of facts by
which it is supported. I will first quote the evidence of
Dr. William Gregory, late Professor of Chemistry in the
University of Edinburgh, who for many years made
continued personal investigations into this subject, and
has recorded them in his Letters on Animal Magnetism.,
published in 1851. The simpler phenomena of what
are usually termed “Hypnotism” and “Electro-
Biology,” are now universally admitted to be real;
though it must never be forgotten, that they too had to
fight their way through the same denials, accusations,
and imputations, that are now made against clairvoyance
and phreno-mesmerism. The same men who advocated,
tested and established the truth of the more simple
facts, claim that they have done the same for the higher
phenomena; the same class of scientific and medical
men who once denied the former now deny the latter.
Let us see then if the evidence for the one is as good as
j it was for the other.
Dr. Gregory defines several -stages of clairvoyance,
j sometimes existing in the same, sometimes in different
patients. The chief division, however, is into 1. Sym¬
pathy or thought-reading, and 2. True clairvoyance.'
The evidence for the first is so overwhelming, it is to
be met with almost everywhere, and is so generally
admitted, that I shall not occupy space by giving ex¬
amples, although it is, I believe, still denied by the more
materialistic physiologists.
Dr. Haddock, residing at Bolton, had a very remark¬
able clairvoyante (E) under his care. Dr. Gregory says,
“ After 1 returned to Edinburgh, I had very frequent
communications with Dr. H., and tried many experi¬
ments with this remarkable subject, sending specimens
of writing, locks of hair, and other objects, the origin
of which was perfectly unknown to Dr. H., and in every
case, without exception, E. saw and described with
accuracy the persons concerned ” (p. 3).
Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., received a letter from
a lady in London, in which the loss of a gold watch was
mentioned. He sent the letter to Dr. H. to see if E.
could trace the watch. She described the lady accu¬
rately and her house and furniture minutely, and
described the watch and chain, and described the person
who had it, who, she said, was not a habitual thief, and
said further that she could tell her handwriting. The
lady, to whom these accounts were sent, acknowleged
their perfect accuracy, but said, the description of the
thief applied to one of her maids, whom she did not
suspect, so she sent several pieces of handwriting,'
including that of both her maids. The clairvoyante
immediately selected that of the one she had described,
and said—“she was thinking of restoring the watch,
saying she had found it.” Sir W. Trevelyan sent off
this information, but a letter from the lady crossed his,'
saying, the girl mentioned before by the clairvoyante,:
had restored the watch and said she had f ound ji (p. 405).
Sir W; Trevelyan communicated to Dr. Gregory
another experiment he had made. He requested the
Secretary of the Geographical Society to send him the
writings of several persons abroad, not known to him,
and without their names. Three were sent. E. dis¬
covered in each case where they were; in two of them
described their persons accurately; described in all three
cases, the cities and countries in which they were, so '
that they could be easily recognised, and told the time
by the clocks, which verified the place by difference of
longitude (p. 407).
Many other cases, equally well tested, are given in
great detail by Dr. Gregory; and numerous cases are
given of tests of what may he called simple direct
clairvoyance. For example, persons going to see the
phenomena purchase in any shop they please, a few
dozens of printed mottoes, enclosed in nutshells. These
are placed in a bag, and the clairvoyante takes out a
nutshell and reads the motto. The shell is then broken
open and examined, and hundreds of mottoes have been
thus read correctly. One motto thus read contained
ninety-eight words. Numbers of other equally severe
test cases, are given by Dr. Gregory, devised and tried
by himself and by other well-known persons.
■ Now, will it be believed, that in the very elaborate
article in the British and Foreign Medico- Chirurgical
Review already referred to, on Dr. Gregory’s and other
works of an allied nature, not one single experiment of
this kind is mentioned or alluded to ? There is a great
deal of general objection to Dr. Gregory’s views, because
he was a chemist and not specially devoted to physiology
(forgetting that Dr. Elliotson and Dr. Mayo- who testily
to similar facts, were both specially devoted to physi-
ology) and a few quotations of a general nature' only
are given; so that no reader could imagine that the
work criticised was the result of observation or experi¬
ment at all. The case is a complete illustration of
judicial blindness. The opponents dare not impute
wilful falsehood to Dr. Gregory, Dr. Mayo, Dr. Haddock,
Sir Walter Trevelyan, Sir T. Willshire, and other
gentlemen who vouch for these facts ; and yet the facts
are of such an unmistakable nature, that without im¬
puting wilful falsehood they cannot be explained away.
They are therefore silently ignored, or more probably
the records of them are never read. The opponents of
Galileo refused to look through his telescope, but they
could not thereby annihilate the satellites of Jupiter;
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1871.
neither can the silence or contempt of our modern
scientific men blind the wo|ld any longer to those grand
and mysterious phenomena of mind, the investigation
of which can alone .conduct us to a knowledge of what
we really are.
Dr. Herbert Mayo, F.R.S., late Professor of Anatomy
and Physiology in King’s;! College, and of Comparative
Anatomy in the Eoyal (ItSHeg6 of Surgeons, also gives
his personal testimony to facts of a similar nature. In
his Letters on the Truths contained in Popular Super¬
stitions (2nd. Ed. p. 178), he says:—From Boppard,
where I was residing in the years 1845-46, I sent to
an American gentleman in Paris a lock of hair, which
Col. C—, an invalid then under my care, had cut from
his own head and wrapped in writing paper from his
own writing desk. Col. C— was unknown even by
name to this American gentleman, who had no clue
whatever whereby to identify the proprietor of the hair.
And all that he did was to place the paper in the hands
of a noted Parisian somnambulist. She stated, in the
opinion she gave on the case, that Col. C— had partial
palsy of the hips and legs, and that for another com¬
plaint he was in the habit of using a surgical instrument.
The patient laughed heartily at the idea of the distant
somnambulist having so completely realised him.”
Dr. Mayo also announces his conversion to a belief in
the truth of phrenology and phreno-mesmerism, and
Dr. Gregory gives copious details of experiments in
which special care has been taken to avoid all the
supposed sources of fallacy in phreno-mesmerism ; yet
although Dr. Mayo’s work is included in the criticism
already referred to, none of the facts he himself testifies
to, nor the latest opinions he puts forward, are so much
as once mentioned.
Dr. Joseph Haddock, a physician, resident and prac¬
tising at Bolton, who has been already mentioned, has
published a work entitled Somnolism and Psycheism,
in which he endeavours to classify the facts of mesmerism
and clairvoyance, and to account for them on physio¬
logical and psychical principles. The work is well worth
reading, but my purpose here is to bring forward one or
two facts from those which he gives in an appendix to
his work. Nothing is more common than for those who
deny the reality of clairvoyance to ask contemptuously,
“ If it is true, why is not use made of it to discover lost
property, or to get news from abroad ? ” To such, I
commend the following statement/of which I can only
give an abstract:—
On Wednesday evening, December 20th, 1848, Mr.
Wood, Grocer, of Cheapside, Bolton, had his cash-box
with its contents stolen from his counting-house. He
applied to the police and could get no clue, though he
suspected one individual. He then came to Dr. Haddock
to see if the girl, Emma, could discover the thief or the
property. When put in rapport with Emma, she was
asked about the lost cash-box, and after a few moments
she began to talk as if to some one not present, described
where the box was, what were its contents, how the
person took it, where he first hid it; and then described
the person, dress, and associations of the thief so vividly,
that Mr. Wood recognised a person he had not the least
suspected. Mr. Wood immediately sought out this
person, and gave him the option of coming at once to Dr.
Haddock’s or to the police-office. He chose the former,
and when he came into the room, Emma started hack,
told him he was a had man, and had not on the same
clothes as when he took the box. He at first denied all
knowledge of the robbery, but after a time acknowledged
that he had taken it exactly in the manner described by
Emma, and it was accordingly recovered.
Now, as the names, place, and date of this occurrence
are given, and it is narrated by an English physician, it
can hardly he denied without first making some enquiry
at the place where it is said to have happened. The
next instance is of clairvoyance at a much greater dis¬
tance. A young man had sailed suddenly from Liverpool
for New York. His parents immediately remitted him
some money by the mail steamer, but they heard, some
time afterwards, that he had never applied for it.
The mother came twenty miles to Bolton to see if, by
Emma’s means, she could learn anything of him. After
a little time Emma found him, described his appearance
correctly, and entered into so many details as to induce
his mother to rely upon her statements, and to request
T)r. Haddock to make enquiries at intervals of about a
fortnight. He did so, and traced the young man by her
means to several places, and the information thus acquired
was sent to his parents. Shortly after. Dr. Haddock
received information from the father that a letter had
arrived from his son, and that “ it was a most striking
confirmation of Emma’s testimony from first to last.”
We will now pass to the evidence for the facts of what
is termed modern Spiritualism.
THE EVIDEHCE OE THE BEAUTY OF APPABITIOHS.
I now propose to give a few instances in which the
evidence of the appearance of preter-human or spiritual
beings is as good and definite as it is possible for any
evidence of any fact to be. Eor this purpose I shall use
some of the remarkable cases collected and investigated
by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly member of
■Congress and American Minister at Naples. Mr. Owen
is the author of works of a varied character: Essays,
Moral Physiology, The Policy of Emancipation, and
many others. He has been, I believe, throughout
his life a consistent and philosophical sceptic, and his
writings show- him to be well educated, logical, and
extremely cautious in accepting evidence.
In 1855, during his official residence at Naples, his
attention seems to have been first attracted to the sub¬
ject of the “ supernatural,” by witnessing the phenomena
occurring in the presence of Mr. Home. He tells us
that “ sitting in his own well-lighted apartment, in
company with three or four friends, all curious ob¬
servers like himself,” a table and lamp weighing ninety-
six pounds “ rose eight or ten inches from the floor,
and remained suspended in the air while one might
count six or seven, the hands of all present being laid
upon the table.”
He then commenced collecting evidence of so-called
supernatural phenomena, occurring unsought for, and
has brought together in his Footfalls on the Boundary
of another World., the best arranged and best authen¬
ticated series of facts which have yet been given to the
public on this subject. This work is certainly the most
philosophical of its kind that has yet appeared, and
perhaps, had it been entitled “A Critical Examination
into the Evidence of the Supernatural,” which it really
is, it would have attracted more attention than it ap¬
pears to have done. I will here give an abstract of
two or three of Mr. Owen’s cases, as illustrative of their
character, and. of the careful manner in which they
have been authenticated and tested. The first is one
which he calls, “ The Fourteenth of November.”
(Footfalls, p. 299.)
On the night between the 14th and 15th of November,
1857, the wife of Captain G. Wheatcroft, residing in
Cambridge, dreamed that she saw her husband (then in
India.) She immediately awoke, and, looking up, she
perceived the same figure standing by her bedside. He
appeared in his uniform, the hands pressed across the
breast, the hair dishevelled, the face very pale. His
large dark eyes were fixed full upon her; their expres¬
sion was that of great excitement, and there was a
peculiar contraction of the mouth, habitual to him when
agitated. She saw him even to each minute particular
of his dress, as distinctly as she had ever done in her
life. The figure seemed to bend forward as in pain, and
to make an effort to speak, but there was no sound. It
remained visible, the wife thinks, as long as a minute,
and then disappeared. She did not sleep again that
night. ' Next morning she related all this to her
mother, expressing her belief that Captain W. was
either killed or wounded. In due course a telegram
was received to the effect that Captain W. had been
killed before Lucknow on the 15th of November. The
widow informed the Captain’s 'solicitor, Mr. Wilkinson,
that she had been quite prepared for the fatal nows, but
she felt sure there must be a mistake in the date of his
death. Mr. Wilkinson then obtained a certificate from
the War Office, which was as follows:—
19579.
No. , War Office, 30th January, 1858.
“ These are to certify that it appears, by the records in
this Office, that Captain G. Wheatcroft, of the 6th Dra¬
goon Guards, was killed in action on the 15th of Nov.,
1857.” (Signed) “ B. Hawes.”
A remarkable incident now occurred. Mr. Wilkinson
was visiting a friend in London, whose wife has all her
life had perception of apparitions, while her husband is
a “ medium.” He related to them the vision of the Cap¬
tain’s widow, and described the figure as it appeared to
her when Mrs. N. instantly said, “ That must be the very
person I saw on the evening we were talking of India.”
In answer to Mr. Wilkinson’s questions, she said they
had obtained a communication from him through her
husband, and he had said that he had been killed in
India that afternoon by a wound in the breast. It was
about nine o’clock in the evening; she did not recollect
the date. On further inquiry she remembered that she
had been interrupted by a tradesman and had paid a
bill that evening, and on bringing it before Mr. Wilkin¬
son’s inspection, the receipt hore date the Fourteenth
of November. In March 1858, the family of Captain
Wheatcroft received a letter fron Captain G—C—, dated
Lucknow, 19 th of December, 1857, in which he said
he had been close to Captain W. when he fell, and that
it was on the fourteenth in the afternoon, and not on
the 15th as reported in Sir Colin Camphell’s despatches.
He was struck by a fragment of a shell in the breast.
He was buried at Dilkoosha, and on a wooden cross at
the head of his grave are cut the initials G. W., and the
date of his death, 14th of November. The War Office
corrected their mistake. Mr. Wilkinson obtained
another copy of the certificate in April 1859, and found
it in the same words as that already given, only that
the 14th of November had been substituted for the
15th.
Mr. Owen obtained the whole of these facts, directly
from the parties themselves. The widow of Captain
Wheatcroft examined and corrected his MSS. and
showed him a copy of Captain C.’s letter. Mr. Wilkinson
did the same, and Mrs. N— herself had also related to him
the facts which occurred to her. Mrs. N— had also
related the circumstance to Mr. Howitt before Mr.
Owen’s investigations, as he certifies in his History of
the Supernatural, vol. ii., p. 225. Mr. Owen also
states that he has in his possession both the War Office
certificates, the first showing the erroneous and the
second the corrected date.
Here we have the same apparition appearing to two
ladies unknown to and remote from each other,'on the
same night; the communication obtained through a
third person, declaring the time and mode of death;
and all coinciding exactly with the events happening
many thousand miles away. We presume the facts
thus attested will not be disputed ; and to attribute the
whole to “ coincidence,” must surely be too great a
stretch of credulity, even for the most incredulous.
The next case is one of haunting, and is called,
THE' OLD KENT MAHOB HOUSE (p. 304).
In October 1857, and for several months afterwards,
Mrs. B.., the wife of a field officer of high rank, was
residing in Bamhurst Manor House, near Leigh, in
Kent. From her first occupying it, every inmate of
the house was more or less disturbed at night, by
knocking and sounds as of footsteps, but more especially
by voices, which could not be accounted for. Mrs. R’s.
brother, a young officer, heard these voices at night, and
tried every means to discover the source of them in vain.
The servants were much frightened. On the second
Saturday in October, Miss S., a young lady who had
been in the habit of seeing apparitions from her child¬
hood, came to visit Mrs. B., who met her at the rail¬
way station. On arriving at the house, Miss S. saw on
the threshold two figures, apparently an elderly couple,
in old-fashioned dress. Not wishing to make her
friend uneasy, she said nothing about them at- the
time. .During the next ten days she saw the same
figures several times in different parts of the house,
always by daylight. They appeared surrounded by an
atmosphere of a neutral tint. On the third occasion
they spoke to her, and said they had formerly possessed
that house, and that their name was Children. They ap¬
peared sad and downcast, and said that they had idolised
their property, and that it troubled them to know that
it had passed away from their family, and was now in
the hands of strangers. On Mrs. B. asking Miss S.
if she had heard or seen anything, she related this to
her. Mrs. B. had herself heard the noises and voices
continually, but had seen nothing, and after a month
had given up all expectation of doing so, when one
day, as she had just finished dressing for dinner, in a
well lighted room with a fire in it, and was coming
down hastily, having been repeatedly called by her
brother, who was impatiently waiting for her, she be¬
held the two figures standing in the doorway dressed
just as Miss S. had described them, but above the
figure of the lady, written in the dusky atmosphere, in
letters of phosphoric light, the words “ Dame Children,”
and some other words intimating that she was earth-
bound. At this moment her brother again called out
to her that dinner was waiting, and closing her eyes
she rushed through the figures. Inquiries were made
by the ladies as to who had lived in the house formerly,
and it was only after four months that they found out
through a very old woman, who remembered an old
man, who had told her that he had in his boyhood
assisted to keep the hounds for the Children family, who
then lived at Bamhurst. All these particulars Mr.
Owen received himself from the two ladies, in Dec.
1858. Miss S. had had many conversations with the
apparitions, and on Mr. Owen’s inquiring for any
details they had communicated, she told him that the
husband had said his name was Richard, and that he
had died in 1753. Mr. Owen now determined, if possible,
to ascertain the accuracy of these facts, and after a long
search among churchyards and antiquarian clergymen,
he was directed to the “ Hasted Papers,” in the British
Museum. From these he ascertained that “ Richard
Children settled himself at Bamhurst,” his family
having previously resided at a house called “ Child¬
rens,” in the parish of Tunbridge. It required further
research to determine the date. This was found
several months later, in an old History of Kent, by
the same “ Hasted,” published in 1778, where it is
stated that “Bamhurst passed by sale to Bichard
Children, Esq., who resided here, and died possessed
of it in 1755, aged eighty-three years.” In the
r Hasted Papers ” it was also stated, that his son did
not live at Bamhurst, and that the family seat after
Bichard’s time was Ferox Hall, near Tunbridge.
Since 1816, the mansion has been occupied as a farm¬
house, having passed away entirely from the Children
family.
However much any one of these incidents might
have been scouted as a delusion, what are we to say
to the combination of them ? A whole household hear
distinct and definite noises of persons walking and
speaking. Two ladies see the same appearances, at
different times, and under circumstances the least
favourable for delusion. The name is given to one by
voice, to the other by writing; the date of death is
communicated. An independent inquirer by much
research, finds out that all these facts are true; that
the Christian name of the only “ Children ” who occu¬
pied and died in the house was Richard, and that his
March 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST
death took place in the year given by the apparition,
1753.
Mr. Owen’s own full account of this case, and the
observations on it should be read, but this imperfect
abstract will serve to show that none of the ordinarv
modes of escaping from the difficulties of a “ghost
story i are here applicable.
At page 195 of Mr. Owen’s volume, we have a most
interesting account of disturbances occurring at the
parsonage of Cideville, in the department of Seine In-
ferieure, France, in the winter of 1850-51. The cir¬
cumstances gave rise to a trial, and the whole of the
facts were brought out by the examination of a great
number of witnesses. The Marquis de Mirville col¬
lected from the legal record all the documents con¬
nected with the trial, including the proces verbal of
the testimony. It is from these official documents
Mr. Owen gives his details of the occurrences.
The disturbances commenced from the time when
two boys, aged 12 and 14, came to be educated by M.
Tinel, the parish priest of Cideville, and continued tivo
months and a half until the children were removed from
the parsonage. They consisted of knockings, as if with
a hammer on the wainscot; scratchings, shakings of
the house so that all the furniture rattled; a din as
if every one in the house were beating the floor with
mallets, the beatings forming tunes when asked, and
answering questions by numbers agreed on. Besides
these noises there were strange and unaccountable
exhibitions of force. The tables and desks moved
about without visible cause; the fire-irons flew re¬
peatedly into the middle of the room, windows were
broken ; a hammer was thrown into the middle of the
room, and yet fell without noise, as if put down by an
invisible hand ; persons standing quite alone had their
dresses pulled. On the Mayor of Cideville coming to
examine into the matter, a table at which he sat with
another person, moved away in spite of their endeavours
to hold it back, while the children were standing in
the middle of the room; and many other facts of a
similar nature were observed repeatedly by numerous
persons of respectability and position, every one of
whom, going with the intention of finding out a trick,
were, after deliberate examination, convinced that the
phenomena were not produced by any person present.
The Marquis de Mirville was himself one of the wit¬
nesses.
The interest of this case consists first, in the evidence
having been brought out before a legal tribunal, and
secondly, in the remarkable resemblance of the phe¬
nomena to those which had occurred a short time
previously in America, but had not yet become much
known in Europe. There is also the closest resemblance
to what occurred at Epworth Parsonage in the family of
Wesley’s father, and which is almost equally well authen¬
ticated.* Now when in three different countries,
phenomena occur of an exactly similar nature, and
which are all open to the fullest examination at the
time, and when no trick or delusion is in either case
found out, but every individual of many hundreds who
go to see them become convinced of their reality, the
fact of the similarity of the occurrences even in many
details, is of great weight as indicating a similar natural
origin. In such cases we cannot fairly accept the
general explanation of “ imposture,” given by those who
have not witnessed the phenomena, when none of those
who did witness them, could ever detect imposture.
The examples I have quoted, give a very imperfect
idea of the variety and interest of Mr. Owen’s work, but
they will serve to indicate the nature of the evidence
he has in every case adduced, and may lead some of my
readers to examine the work itself. If they do so they
will see that similar phenomena to those Which puzzled
our forefathers at Epworth Parsonage and at Mr.
Mompesson’s at Tedworth, have recurred in our own
time, and have been subjected to the most searching ex¬
amination without any discovery of trick or imposture ;
and they may perhaps be led to conclude that, though
often asserted, it is not yet quite proved that “ ghosts
have been everywhere banished by the introduction of gas.”
MODERN SPIRITUALISM: EVIDENCE OP MEN OF SCIENCE.
We have now come to the consideration of what is
more especially termed “ modern spiritualism,” or those
phenomena which occur only in the presence, or through
the influence, of peculiarly constituted individuals, hence
termed “mediums.” The evidence is here so abundant,
coming from various parts of the world, and from per¬
sons differing widely in education, tastes, and religion,
that it is difficult to give any notion of its force and
* In an article entitled “ Spirit Rapping a Century Ago,” in an early
number of the Fortnightly Review, an account is given of the disturbances
at Epworth Parsonage, the residence of the Wesley family, and it is at¬
tempted to account for them by the supposition that they were entirely
produced by Hester Wesley, one of John Wesley’s sisters; yet the phe¬
nomena, even as related by this writer, are such as no human being could
possibly have produced, while the moral difficulties of the case are admitted
to be quite as great as the physical ones. Every reader of the article must
have perceived how lame and impotent is the explanation suggested; and
one is almost forced to conclude that the writer did not believe in it himself,
so different is the tone of the first part of the article in which he details the
facts, from the latter part.in which he attempts to account for them. When
taken in connection with other similar occurrences narrated by Mr. Owen,
all equally well authenticated, and all thoroughly investigated at the time, it
will be impossible to receive as an explanation that they were in every case
mere childish tr}cks, since that will not account for more than a minute
fraction of the established facts. If we are to reject all the facts this
assumption will not explain, it will be much simpler and quite as satisfactory
to deny that there e any facts that need explaining.
bearing by short extracts. I will first adduce that
of three men of the highest eminence in their respective
departments—Professor De Morgan, Professor Hare,
and Judge Edmonds.
Augustus De Morgan, many years Professor of
Mathematics, and now also Dean of University College,
London, was educated at Cambridge, where he took his
degree as 4th wrangler. He studied for the bar, and
has been a voluminous writer on mathematics, logic, and
biography. He was for eighteen years Secretary to the
Koyal Astronomical Society, and was a strong advocate
for a decimal coinage. In 1863, a work appeared entitled
From Matter to Spirit, the result of ten years’ experience
in Spirit Manifestations, by C. D., with a preface by
A. B. It is very generally known that A. B. is Prof.
De Morgan, and C. D. Mrs. De Morgan. The internal
evidence of the preface is sufficient to all who know the
Professor’s style; it has been frequently imputed to
him in print without any contradiction, and in the
Athenceum for I860, in the “ Budget of Paradoxes,” he
notices the work in such a manner as to show that he
accepts the imputation of the authorship and still holds
the opinions therein expressed.* From this preface,
which is well worth reading for its vigorous and sar¬
castic style, I proceed to give a few extracts:—
“ I am satisfied from the evidence of my own senses, of some
of the facts narrated (in the body of the work), of some others
I have evidence as good as testimony can give. I am per¬
fectly convinced that I have both seen and heard, in a manner
that should make unbelief impossible, things called spiritual,
which cannot be taken by a rational being to be capable of
explanation by imposture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I
feel the ground firm under me (p. 1.).
“ Ten years ago, Mrs. Hayden, the well-known American
medium, came to my house alone. The sitting began imme¬
diately after her arrival. Bight or nine persons were present,
of all ages and of all degrees of belief and unbelief in the
whole thing being imposture. The raps began in the usual
way. They were to my ear clear, clean, faint sounds such as
would be said to ring had they lasted. I likened them at the
time to the noise which the ends of knitting-needles would
make if dropped from a small distance upon a marble slab,
and instantly checked by a damper of some kind. .' . Mrs.
Hayden was seated at some distance from the table, and her
feet were watched. . . . On being asked to put a question
to the first spirit, I begged that I might be allowed to put my
question mentally—that is without speaking it, or writing it,
or pointing it out to myself on an alphabet—and that Mrs.
Hayden might hold both arms extended while the answer was
in progress. Both demands were instantly granted by a couple
of raps. I put the question and desired the answer might be
in one word, which I assigned all mentally. I then took the
printed alphabet, put a book upright before it, and bending
my'eyes upon it proceeded to point to the letters in the usual
way. The word chess was given by a rap at each letter. I
had ‘now reasonable certainty of the following alternative:
either some thought-reading of a character wholly inexpli¬
cable, or such superhuman acuteness on the part of Mrs.
Hayden that she could detect the letter I wanted by my bear¬
ing, though she (seated six feet from the book which hid my
alphabet) could see neither my hand nor my eye, nor at what
rate I was going through the letters. I was fated to be driven
out of the second alternative before the evening was done.
“ At a later period of the evening, when another spirit was
under examination, I asked him whether he remembered a
certain review which was published soon after his death, and
whether he could give me the, initials of an epithet (which
happened to be in five words) therein applied to himself. Con¬
sent having been given, I began my way through the alphabet
as above ; the only difference of circumstances being that a
bright table lamp was now between me and the medium. I
expected to be brought up, at say, the letter F.; and when my
pencil passed that letter without any signal, I was surprised,
and by the time I came to K, or thereabouts, I paused, intend¬
ing to announce a failure. But some one called out,1 You
have passed it; I heard a rap long ago.’ I began again, and
distinct raps came first at C., then at D. I was now satisfied
that the spirit had failed ; but stopping to consider a little
more, it flashed into my mind that G. D. were his own initials,
and that he had chosen to commence the clause which con¬
tained the epithet. I then said nothing but ‘ I see what you
are at; pray go on,’ and I then got T (for The'), then the E. I
wanted—of which not a word had been said—and then the
remaining four initials. I was now satisfied that contents of
my mind had been read, which could not have been detected
by my method of pointing to the alphabet, even supposing
that could have been seen. . . The things which I have set
down were the beginning of a long series of experiences, many
as remarkable as what I have given.”—From Matter to Spirit,
Preface, pp. xli., xlii.
From the body of the same work I give one short
extract:—
“ The most remarkable instance of table-moving with a pur¬
pose, which ever came under my notice, occurred at the house
of a friend, whose family like my own were staying at the sea¬
side. My friend’s family consisted of six persons, and a
gentleman, now the husband of one of the daughters, joined
them, and I was accompanied by a young member of my own
family. No paid person was present. A gentleman who had
been expressing himself in a very sceptical manner, not only
with reference to spirit manifestations, but on the subject of
spiritual existence generally, sat on a sofa two or three feet
from the dining-room table, round which we were placed.
After sitting some time we were directed by the rapping to
join hands, and stand up round the table without touching it.
All did so for a quarter of an hour, wondering whether any¬
thing would happen, or whether we were hoaxed by the unseen
power. Just as one or two of the party talked of sitting
down, the table, which was large enough for eight or ten
persons, moved entirely by itself as we surrounded and fol¬
lowed it with our hands joined, went towards the gentleman
out of the circle, and literally pushed him up to the back of
the sofa till he called out, ‘ Hold, enough.’ ”—From Matter to
Spirit, p. 26.
J. W. Edmonds, commonly called Judge Edmonds, is
a man of considerable eminence. He has been elected
a member of both branches of the State Legislature of
* The work is now advertised as by Professor and Mrs. De Morgan.
147
New York, and was for some time President of the
Senate, He has been Inspector of Prisons, and
made great improvements in the penitentiary system.
After passing through various lower offices, he was made
a Judge of the Supreme Court of the New York State.
This is the highest judicial office in the State; he held
it for six years, and then resigned, solely on account of
the outcry against him on its being known that he hg,d
become convinced on the subject of Spiritualism. Since
then he has resumed his practice at the bar, and was
elected to the important office of Kecorder of New York,
which however he declined to accept.
The Judge was first induced by some friends to visit a
medium, and being astonished at what he saw, determined
to investigate the matter, and discover and expose what
he then believed to be a great imposture. The following
are some of his experiences given in his work on Spirit
Manifestations :—
“ On the 23rd April, 1851,1 was one of a party of nine who
sat round a centre table, on which a lamp was burning, and
another lamp was burning on the mantel-piece. And then, in
plain sight of uS all, that table was lifted at least a foot from
the floor, and shaken backwards and forwards as easy as I
could shake a goblet in my hand. Some of the party tried to
stop it by the exercise of their strength, but in vain ; so rce all
drew bach from the table, and by the light of those two burn¬
ing lamps we saw the heavy mahogany table suspended in the
air.
“ At the next seance a variety of extraordinary phenomena
occurred to him. As I stood in a corner where no one could
reach my pocket, I felt a hand thrust into it, and found after¬
wards that six knots had been tied in my handkerchief. A
bass viol was put into my hand, and rested on my foot, and
then played upon. My person was repeatedly touched, and a
chair pulled from under me. I felt on one of my arms what
seemed to be the grip of an iron hand. I felt distinctly the
thumb and fingers, the palm of the hand, and the ball of the
thumb, and it held me fast by a power which I struggled to
escape from in vain. With my other hand I felt all round
where the pressure was, and satisfied myself that it was no
earthly hand that was thus holding me fast, nor indeed could
it be, for I was as powerless in that grip as a fly would be in
the grasp of my hand. It continued with me till I thoroughly
felt how powerless I was, and had tried every means to get
rid of it.’ Again, as instances of the intelligence and know¬
ledge of the unseen power, he says that during his journey to
Central America, his friends in New York were almost daily
informed of his condition. . On returning, he compared his
own journal with their notes, and found that they had accu¬
rately known the day he landed, days on which he was unwell
or well, and on one occasion it was said he had a headache,
and at the very hour he was confined to his bed by a sick
headache 2,000 miles away. As another example, he says,
‘ My daughter had gone with her little son to visit some re¬
latives 400 miles from New York. During her absence, about
four o’clock in the morning, I was told through this spiritual
intercourse that the little fellow was very sick. I went after
him, and found that at the very hour I received that intelli¬
gence, he was very sick, his mother and aunt were sitting
up with him and were alarmed for the result.’ . . . ‘ This
will give a general idea of what I was witnessing two or three
times a week for more than a year. I was not a believer
seeking confirmation of my own notions. I was struggling
against conviction. I have not stopped to detail the precau¬
tions which 1 took to guard against deception, self or other¬
wise. Suffice it to say that in that respect I omitted nothing
which my ingenuity could devise. There was no cavil too
captious for me to resort to, no scrutiny too rigid or imperti¬
nent for me to institute, no inquiry too intrusive for me to
make.' ’’
In a letter publisbed in the New Yorlt Herald, August
6tb, 1853, after giving an abstract of his investigations,
he says—
“ ‘ I went into the investigation originally thinking it a
deception, and intending to make public my exposure of it.
Having, from my researches, come to a different conclusion,
I feel that the obligation to make known the result is just as
strong. Therefore it is, mainly, that I give the result to the
world. I say mainly, because there is another consideration
which influences me, and that is, the desire to extend to others
a knowledge which I am conscious cannot but make them
happier and better.’ ”
I would now ask whether it is possible that Judge
Edmonds can have been deceived as to these facts and
not be insane. Yet he is still in practice at the bar,
and is in the highest repute as a lawyer.
Robert Hare, M.D., Emeritus Professor of Chemistry
in the University of Pennsylvania, was one of the most
eminent scientific men of America. He distinguished
himself by a number of important discoveries (among
which may be mentioned the Oxy-Hydrogen blowpipe)
and was the author of more than 150 papers on scientific
subjects, besides others on political and moral questions.
In 1853 his attention was first directed to table-turning
and allied phenomena, and finding that the explanation
of Faraday, which he had at first received as sufficient,
would not account for the facts, he set himself to work
to devise apparatus which should, as he expected,
conclusively prove that no force was exerted but that of
the, person at the table. The result was not as he
expected, for however he varied his experiments he was
in every case only able to obtain results which proved
that there was a power at work not that of any human
being present. But in addition to the power there was
an intelligence, and he was thus compelled to believe
that existences not human did communicate with him.
It is often asserted by the disbelievers in these phenomena,
that no scientific man has fully investigated them. This
is not true. No one who has not himself inquired into
the ;facts has a right even to give an opinion on the
subject, till he knows what has been done by others in
the investigation ; and to know that it will be necessary
for him to read carefully, among other works. Hare’s
148
March 15, 1871.
THfi SPIRITUALIST.
Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations,
which, has passed through five editions. It is a volume
of 460 closely printed octavo pages, and, contains besides
the details of his experiments, numerous discussions on
philosophical, moral, and theological questions, which
manifest great acuteness and logical power. The experi¬
ments he made were all through private mediums, and
his apparatus was so contrived that the medium could
not possibly, under the test conditions, either produce the
motions, or direct the communication that ensued. For
example, the table by its movement caused an index to
revolve over an alphabet on the disc, yet even when the
medium could not see the disc the index moved to such
letters as to spell out intelligent and accurate communi¬
cations. And when the medium’s hands were placed
upon a truly plane metal plate, supported on accurately
turned metal balls, so that not the slightest impulse
could be communicated by her to the table, yet the table
still moved easily and intelligently. In another case a
medium’s hands were suspended in water so as to have
no connection with the board on which the water vessel
was placed, and yet, at request, a force of 181bs. was
exerted on the boards as indicated by a spring balance
(see pages 40 to 50). A considerable space is devoted
to communications received through the means of the
above-named apparatus, describing the future life of
human beings, and as far as my own judgment goes, these
descriptions, taken as a whole, give us a far more exalted,
and at the same time more rational and connected view
of spirit life, than do the doctrines of any other religion
or philosophy; while they are certainly more conducive
to morality, and inculcate more strongly the importance
of cultivating to the uttermost every mental faculty with
which we are endowed. Even if it be possible to prove
that the supposed superhuman source of these communi¬
cations is a delusion, I would still maintain, that standing
on their own merits they give us the best, the highest,
the most rational, and the most acceptable ideas of a
future state, and must prove the best incentive to
intellectual and modern advancement; and I would call
upon every thinker to examine the work on this account
alone, before deciding against it.
I shall next adduce, very briefly, the testimony of a
number of well-known and intelligent Englishmen, to
facts of a similar nature witnessed by themselves.
EVIDENCE OF LITERARY AND PROFESSIONAL MEN TO THE
FACTS OF MHDERN SPIRITUALISM!.
T. Adolphus Trollope was educated at Oxford, and
is the well-known author of numerous works of high
excellence in the departments of travels, fiction, biography,
and history. In 1855 he wrote a letter to Mr. Bymer,
of Ealing, which was published in the Morning Advertiser,
and is reproduced in Incidents of my Life, (2nd ed.,
p. 252), in which he shows the inaccuracy and unfairness
of Sir David Brewster’s account of phenomena occurring
in the presence of both, at Mr. Rymer’s house, and
concludes with these words: “ I should not, my dear
sir, do all that duty, I think, requires of me, in this case,
were I to conclude without stating very solemnly, that
after very many opportunities of witnessing and inves¬
tigating the phenomena caused by, or happening to Mr.
Home, I am wholly convinced, that be what may their
origin, and cause, and nature, they are not produced by
any fraud, machinery, juggling, illusion, or trickery, on
his part.” Again in a letter to th.e Atlien.Geum, eight
years later (dated .Florence, March 21* 1863) he says,
“I have been present at very many '.sittings’ of Mr.
Home in England, many in my own house in Florence,
some in the house of a friend in Florence! . , . My
testimony then is this:—I have seen and fejt physical
facts, wholly and utterly inexplicable, as I believe, by
any known and generally received physical laws. I
unhesitatingly reject the theory which considers such
facts to be produced by means familiar to the best
professors of legerdemain.”
An opinion so positive as this, from a man of such
eminence, who during eight years has had repeated
opportunities of witnessing, examining, and reflecting
on the phenomena, must surely be held as of far more
value than the opposite opinion, so frequently put forward
by those who have either not witnessed them at all, or
only on one or two occasions.
James M. Gully, M.D., author of Neuropathy and,
Nervousness, Simple Treatment of Disease, The Water
Cure in Chronic Diseases. Of the last work the
Athenceum said:—“Dr. Gully’s book is evidently written
by a well-educated medical man. This work is by far
the most scientific that we have seen on Hydropathy.”
Dr. Gully was one of the persons present at the celebrated
seance described in the Cornhill Magazine in 1860, under
the title “ Stranger than Fiction,” and he wrote a letter
to the Morning Star newspaper, confirming the entire
truthfulness of that article. He says :—“ I can state
with the greatest positiveness that the record made in
the article ‘ Stranger than Fiction ’ is in every particular
correct; that the phenomena therein related actually
took place in the evening meeting; and moreover, that
no trick, machinery, sleight-of-hand, or other artistic
contrivance, produced what we heard and beheld. I am
quite as convinced of this last as I am of the facts
themselves.” He then goes to show the absurdity of all
suggested explanations of such phenomena as Mr. Home’s
floating across the room, which he both saw and felt,
and the playing of the accordion in several persons’
hands, often three yards distance from Mr. Home. But
the most important fact is, that Dr. Gully is now one of
Mr. Home’s most esteemed friends. He receives Mr.
Home frequently in his house, and has had ample
opportunities of testing the phenomena in private, and
of certainly detecting the gigantic and complicated system
of deception, if it be such. To most minds this will be
stronger proof of the reality of the phenomena, than any
facts observed at a single seance, or than any unsupported
assertion that the thing is impossible.
William Howitt, the well-known author of Rural
Life in England, a variety of historical works exhibiting
great research, many excellent works of fiction, and
recently a History of Discovery in Australia, has had
extensive opportunities of investigating the phenomena,
and can hardly be supposed to be incapable of judging
lof such palpable facts as these :—
“ Mrs. Howitt had a sprig of geranium handed to her by an
invisible hand, which we have planted and it is growing ; so
that it is no delusion, no fairy money turned into dross or
leaves. I saw a spirit hand as distinctly as I ever saw my
own. I touched one several times, once when it was handing
me a flower. ... A few evenings afterwards a lady desiring
that the ‘ Last Rose of Summer ’ might be played by a spirit
on the accordion, the wish was complied with, but in so wretched
a style that the company begged that it might be discontinued.
This was done, but soon after, evidently by another spirit,
the accordion was carried and suspended over the lady’s head,
and there without any visible support or action on the instru¬
ment, the air was played through most admirably, in the
view and hearing of all.”—Letter from William Howitt to
Mr. Barkas, of Newcastle, reprinted in Home’s incidents of
My Life, (2nd. ed., p. 137).
Here the fact of the spectators not receiving bad music
for good, because they believed it to proceed from a
superhuman source, is decidedly in favour of their
coolness and judgment; and the fact was one which the
senses of ordinary mortals are quite capable of verifying.
The Hon. Col. Wilbraham sent the following letter to
Mr. Home. I extract it from the Spiritual Magazine:—
“ 46, Brook-street, April 14th, 1863.
“ My dear Mr. Home,—I have much pleasure in stating that
I have attended several seances, in your presence, at the
houses of two of my intimate friends and at my own, when
I have witnessed phenomena similar to some of those de¬
scribed in your book, which I feel certain could not have been
produced by any trick or collusion whatever. The rooms in
which they occurred were always perfectly lighted; and it
was impossible for me to disbelieve the evidence of my own
senses.—Believe,me, yours very truly, E. B. Wilbraham.”
S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Barrister-at-Law, Editor of the
Art Journal, and well known in literary, artistic, and
philantrbphic circles, has written the following letter to
the Editor of the Spiritual Magazine, 1863, p. 336—
“ Sir,—I follow the example of Colonel Wilbraham, and
desire to record my belief in the statements put forth by Mr.
D. D. Home (‘ Incidents of my Life ’). I have myself seen
nearly all the marvels he relates ; some in his presence, some
with other mediums, and some when there was no medium-
aid (when Mrs. Hall and I sat alone). Not long ago, I must
have confessed to disbelief in all miracles; I have seen so
many that my faith as a Christian is now not merely outward
profession, but entire and solemn conviction. For this in¬
calculable good I am indebted to.‘ Spiritualism ; ’ and it is
my bounden duty to induce knowledge of its power to teach
and make happy. That duty may, for the present, be limited
to a declaration of confidence in Mr. Home.—Yours, &c.
I S. C. Hall.”
Nassau "William Senior, late Master in Chancery, and
twice Professor of Political Economy in the University
of Oxford, was one, whom it will astonish many persons
to hear, had become convinced of the truth and reality
of what they in their superior knowledge suppose to be
a gross delusion. The following statement is made in
the Spiritual Magazine, 1864, p. 336, which can be,
no doiibt, authoritatively denied if incorrect:—
“ We have only to add, as a further tribute to the attain¬
ments and honours of Mr. Senior, that , he was by long enquiry
and experience, a firm believer in spiritual power and mani¬
festations. Mr. Home was his frequent guest, and Mr. Senior
made no secret of his belief among his friends. He it was,
who recommended the publication of Mr. Home’s recent work
by Messrs. Longmans, and he authorised the publication,
under initials, of one of'the striking incidents there given,
which happened to a near and dear member of his family.”
The Rev. William Eer, M.A., Ineumhent of Tipton,
in his recent work on Future Punishment, Immortality,
and Modem Spiritualism,, thus gives his testimony to
the facts:—
“ The writer of these pages has, for a length of time, be¬
stowed great attention upon the subject, and is in a position
to affirm with all confidence, from his own experience and re¬
peated trials, that the alleged phenomena of Spiritualism
are, for by far the most part, the products neither of imposture
nor delusion. They are true, and that to the fullest extent.
The marvels which he himself has witnessed, in the private
retirement of his own home, with only a few select friends,
and without having even so much as ever seen a public medium,
are in many respects fully equal to any of the startling narra¬
tives that have ever appeared in print.”
Thackeray, though a cool-headed man of the world
and a close student of human nature, could not resist
the evidence of his senses in this matter. Mr. Weld, in
his Last Winter in Rome, p. 180, states, that at a
dinner shortly after the appearance in the Cornhill
Magazine of the article entitled “ Stranger than Fiction,”
Mr. Thackeray was reproached with having permitted
such a paper to appear. After quietly hearing all that
could be said on the subject, Thackeray replied:—“ It
is all very well for you, who have probably never seen
any spiritual manifestations, to talk as you do; but had
you seen what I have witnessed, you would hold a
different opinion.” He then proceeded to inform Mr.
Weld, and the company, that when in New York, at a
dinner party, he saw the large and heavy dinner table,
covered with decanters, glasses, and a complete dessert,
rise fully two feet from the ground, the modus operandi
being, as he alleged, spiritual force. No possible jugglery,
he declared, was or could have been employed on the
occasion and he felt so convinced that the motive force
was supernatural, that he then and there gave in his
adhesion to the truth of Spiritualism, and consequently
accepted the article on Mr. Home’s seance.
The late Chancellor, Lord Lyndhurst, was another
eminent convert to Spiritualism. In the Spiritual
Magazine, 1863, p. 519, it is said:—
“ He was a careful and scrutinizing observer of all facts
which came under his notice, and had no predilections or
prejudices against any, and during the repeated interviews
which he has had with Mr. Home, he was entirely satisfied
with the nearness of the spiritual world, and of the power to
communicate with those still in the flesh. As to the truth of
the mere physical phenomena, he had no difficulty in acknow¬
ledging them to the fullest extent; neither did he, like many,
make any secret of his conviction, as his friends can testify.”
Archbishop Whately was a Spiritualist. Mr. Fitz¬
patrick in bis Memoirs of Whately, tells us that the
Archbishop had been a believer in mesmerism, and latterly
in clairvoyance and Spiritualism. “ He went from one
extreme to another, until he avowed an implicit belief
in clairvoyance, induced a lady who possessed it to
become an inmate of his house, and some of the last acts
of his life were excited attempts at table-turning, and
enthusiastic elicitations of spirit-rapping.” This con¬
verted into plain language means, that the Archbishop
examined into the facts before deciding against their
possibility; and having satisfied himself by personal
experiment of their reality, saw their immense importance,
and pursued the investigation with ardour.
Dr. Elliotson, who for many years was one of the
most determined opponents of Spiritualism, has at length
given way to the irresistible logic of facts. Mr. Coleman
thus writes in the Spiritual Magazine, 1864, p. 216 :■—
“ ‘ I am,’ Dr. Elliotson said to me, and it is with his sanction
that I make the announcement, ‘ now quite satisfied of the
reality of the phenomena. I am not yet prepared to admit
that they are produced by the agency of spirits. I do not
deny this, as I am unable to satisfactorily account for what
I have seen on any other hypothesis. The explanations
which have been made to account for the phenomena do not
satisfy me, but I desire to reserve my opinion on that point
at present. I am free, however, to say, that I regret the
opportunity was not afforded me at an earlier period. What
I have seen lately has made a deep impression on my mind,
and the recognition of the reality of these manifestations,
from whatever cause, is tending to revolutionize my thoughts
and feelings on almost every subject.’ ”
Captain Burton, of Mecca and Salt Lake City, is not
a man to be taken in by a “ gross deception,” yet note
what he says about the Davenport Brothers, who are
supposed to have been so often exposed. In a letter to
Dr. Ferguson, and published by him. Captain Burton
states, that he has seen these manifestations under the
most favourable circumstances, in private houses, when
the spectators were all sceptics, the doors bolted, and
the ropes, tape, and musical instruments provided by
themselves. He goes on to say:—
“ Mr. W. Fay’s coat was removed while he was securely
fastened hand and foot, and a lucifer match was struch at the
same instant, showing us the two gentlemen fast bound, and
the coat in the air on its way to the other side of the room.
Under precisely similar circumstances, another gentleman’s
coat was placed upon him.”
And he concludes thus :
“ I have spent a great part of my life in Oriental lands,
and have seen there many magicians. Lately I have been
permitted to see and be present at the performances of Messrs.
Anderson and Tolmaque. The latter showed, as they profess,
clever conjuring, but they do not even attempt what the Messrs.
Davenport and Fay succeed in doing. Finally I have read
and listened to every explanation of the Davenport ‘ tricks ’
hitherto placed before the English public, and believe me,
if anything would make me take that tremendous leap ‘ from
matter to spirit,’ it is the utter and complete u/nreason of the
reasons by which the ma/nifestations are explained.’'
Professor Challis, the Plumierian Professor of
Astronomy at Cambridge, is almost the only person who,
as far as I know, has stated his belief in some of these
phenomena solely from the weight of testimony in favour
of them. In a letter to the Clerical Journal of June, (?)
1863, he says:—’
“ But although I have no grounds, from personal observa¬
tion, for giving credit to the asserted spontaneous movements
of tables, I have been unable to resist the large amount of
testimony to such facts, which has come from many inde¬
pendent sources, and from a vast number of witnesses. Eng¬
land, France, Germany, the United States of America, with
most of the other nations of Christendom, contributed simul¬
taneously their quota of evidence. ... In short the testi¬
mony has been so abundant and consentaneous, that either the
facts must be admitted to be such as a/re reported, or the possi¬
bility of certifying facts by hunan testimony must be given up.
Spiritualism in England.—The valuable history of
the Rise and Progress]pf Spiritualism in England by Mr. Ben¬
jamin Coleman, recently published in these pages, has been
reprinted by him in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with
coloured wrapper. The discussion is also included in the
pamphlet. Copies may be had at one shilling each, of
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial
value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism.
March 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
MR. TOWNS’S MEDIUMSHTP.
WRITING, TRANCE, AND SEEING MEDHJMSHIP—LEVITATION OF THE HUMAN
BODY—THE FIRE TEST—SPIRIT IDENTITY—TRANOE*SPEAKING IN FOREIGN
LANGUAGES—HOW DEAD MEN SOMETIMES TELL TALES.
The following is the testimony of Mr. W. Towns, oil and
colour merchant, of 32, Lloyd’s-row, Clerkenwell, E.C., and
14, Theobald’s-road, High Holborn, as to the development
and results of his mediumship :—
“ I first became acquainted with Spiritualism about seven
years ago, and the subject was brought under my notice by a
Mr. Overton, whose acquaintance I had previously made while
we were both living in Australia. We both returned to Eng¬
land, but neither of us knew that the other had taken that
step. One morning he called on me at my house in Clerken¬
well, and informed me that he was a medium, also that the
spirits had told him three mornings running that I was in
London. They told him that the first time he called I should
be from home, but he would meet Mrs. Towns, and that
when he called a second time he would meet me. This after¬
wards proved to be the case. The spirits gave him my
address. When he saw Mrs. Towns, he told her that his
spirit friends informed him that I should be a good medium if
I went into Spiritualism, and when he saw me he told me the
same.
“Not knowing what to make of all this, I asked him ‘ Can
you show me anything that I may judge for myself ?’ He
replied that he only knew one physical medium in London—
Mr. Hilyard, a shoemaker, of New Inn-yard, Shoreditch. I
said, I Well, bring him here next Sunday, and we will have a
stance. The better the day, the better the deed.’ The two
of them came on Sunday, and we had a sitting. Mrs. Towns
did not join us ; she thought it imposture or wickedness, ahd
while it took place she locked herself up in a room upstairs
with the-children. At that stance a message was signalled
out by table motions, purporting to come from my father;
some things were told me which were known only to my
father, and not to my two visitors. While each of us had one
finger only upon the table, it rolled about the room in an
extraordinary manner, its edge sometimes touching the floor.
“ These circumstances perplexed me very much, and the
same evening, after my visitors had left, I said to Mrs. Towns,
II will sit down at this table for twenty minutes in serious
prayer, and if this is true, I shall get the same manifestations
by myself ; if I get no response I will have nothing more to
do with Spiritualism.’ Soon the table began to move about
and answer questions,-till Mrs. Towns begged me to leave the
table, which*! did. Afterwards I arranged to sit occasionally
with Mr. Overton for manifestations. Mr. Overton was
an impressional medium. After the lapse of a few weeks,
writing mediumship was developed in me, and while the
writing was going on, I felt as if enveloped in a warm or
cold atmosphere; for the temperature of this invisible covering
varied, sometimes it was dreadfully cold.
“ About the same time that writing mediumship came on, the
spirits began to entrance me. Sometimes they would throw
me down like a log, but they never hurt me, and I had a con¬
viction at the time that they would do me no harm ; I also
had the idea, which my experience in spiritual phenomena
has since more and more confirmed, that spirits have to learn
how to control a medium, just as a carpenter’s apprentice has
to learn how to use his tools, so that their first attempts are
not likely to be very perfect. I resolved to persevere, and
soon trance-communications of a sermonising character were
given through me ; I was insensible while these discourses
were being given. In the trance I often saw and described
deceased persons, so that they were recognised by their rela¬
tives. About a year ago, I began to acquire this power of
occasionally seeing spirits in my normal state, without passing
into the trance. I can see them better by daylight than I
can in darkness, and my eyelids are not closed when I see
them. Sometimes I can see through the spirits, and sometimes
I cannot. Those spirits I can see through, usually appear to
he floating in the air, above the level of my eye ; these are
usually angelic forms of great beauty ; they seem to be less
material and further removed from earth than the others ;
they are always robed in white. Those spirits whom I see on
the floor, or on a level with myself, are not usually trans¬
parent ; they wear coloured dresses, and usually appear just
the same as they did while they lived upon earth. Sometimes
I see spirits in antique dresses of a red and purple colour,
floating a little way above the level of the floor.
“ The clairvoyant power of occasionally seeing diseased
portions of the human organism, and of intuitively knowing
the best remedies to apply when the case is curable, came over
me about twelve months ago, while Dr. Newton was here.
The following are some of the most interesting of my ex¬
periences in connection with'Spiritualism :—
“ For some time I was a member of a spirit circle held at
the house of Mr. Jones, 34, Rahere-street, St. Luke’s. One
night as we were sitting there in the dark for the development
of the spirit voice, Mr. Jones said to me, ‘ I have an impres¬
sion that they are going to carry you.’ I replied, ‘ I don’t
think that at all.’ Instantly I felt something like two arms
under my arms and legs, and I found myself lying at full
length in the fender, with a loud rattling noise. It was done
in less than a second, and I had been carried round two sitters
between me and the fireplace ; the rattling noise was caused
by the movement of fireirons, which were taken from their
inclined position and laid flat in the bottom of the fender, with
myself on the top of them. It was all done instantaneously.
“ Once at Mr. Jones’s circle, in the presence of more, than
ten people, I was made to hold my hands for some minutes in
a gas flame; the skin became quite black from the smoke
deposited, but I was not burnt. Mr. Jones saw this; so did
Mr. James Alldis, jun., cutler, of Gray’s Inn-road, as well'as
his brother-in-law, Mr. Tottle, the mate of a ship. Mrs.
Ridler, I remember, was there, and these persons can doubtless
give the names and addresses of several other witnesses. My
hand divided the flame into two parts. Mr. Tottle was dread¬
fully nervous over it, so a spirit entranced Mrs. Towns and
told him ‘ not to be frightened, for if he took hold of Mr.
Towns’s hand, and both their/hands were placed in flame, he
also would not be burnt.’ The two hands were then placed in
the flame together, and no injury resulted.
“ On one occasion at Mr. Jones’s circle, Mr. and Mrs. Alldis
were among those present, and Mrs. Richmond came in. I
did not know Mrs. Richmond, and.I was the last to enter the
circle, because I always left my shop at the last moment, to go
to the seances. I was entranced by Mrs. Richmond’s husband,
who had passed from earth life about two weeks before, of
which fact I knew nothing whatever. I personated him by
tying a handkerchief round my head, and personated her
actions while bathing the head ; at the same time everybody
present cried out about a strong smell of aromatic vinegar; it
was so strong that it brought the tears into some of their eyes.
Mrs. Richmond then said that her husband had promised
before he died, to communicate with her at the first circle she
attended after his death, if he were able; he had a hand¬
kerchief round his head during his last illness, and nothing
gave him so much relief as bathing his temples with aromatic
vinegar. Mrs. Richmond is now living at Croydon, in a cutler’s
shop there belonging to Mr. Alldis.
“ On another evening I went to the same circle, and arrived
after everybody else, as usual. A French spirit entranced me,
and I began speaking French to a gentleman present who gave
the name of Craddick, and who was a stranger to me. In my
normal state I cannot speak French or any other foreign
language; I scarcely know half-a-dozen words outside the
English tongue. The spirit told Mr. Craddick that when he
returned to Paris he would have to seek fresh lodgings, because
his landlord was dead, and the house was to be sold ; the name
of the landlord was given. Mr. Craddick had seen the land¬
lord only ten days previously, and did not believe the message.
However, when he returned to Paris, he found that the land¬
lord was dead, and that bills were posted up outside the house,
announcing that the premises were for sale. Mr. Craddick
afterwards went to a seance in Paris, and a spirit scolded him
somewhat for not believing the message he had received
through an English medium ; when he returned to London,
he came and told me these circumstances.
“ One night I was impressed to go to one of the public spirit
circles, then held at 2, Great Coram-street, Bloomsbury. I
paid my shilling, and found a great many persons present,
none of whom I knew. Mr. Frank Herne was the medium.
I fell into conversation with Mrs. Dr. Dixon, of 8, Great
Ormond-street, and with a gentleman from Croydon. While
we were talking the folding-doors were closed, and a seance
began in the next room. We heard some foreigners beginning
to talk to Mr. Herne in the next room, then I was suddenly
entranced, and made to call out something in a foreign
tongue to those in the other apartment. The folding-doors
were then opened, and I spoke to six different foreigners
present in six different languages. Mrs. Morris (the lady who
played the solo on the piano at the farewell meeting to Mr.
J. M. Peebles in the Cavendish Rooms) was present; she said
that one of these spirits was her mother, and spoke Spanish
to her through my lips. Mr. Maurice, one of the investigat¬
ing members of the Dialectical Society, was there, and he said
that I must be an educated person. I said—‘ I know no
language but my own, and I don’t come here to tell lies.’ He
told me that I had been speaking French, Spanish, Flemish,
Italian, and six languages altogether ; he also said—‘ I spoke
to you in English, and you answered me in Cape Dutch, which
is the only foreign language I know.’
11 have very often been entranced by foreign spirits, and
made to converse in languages I do not understand. Once at
a public seance at St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerken¬
well, Mr. J. J. Morse, was entranced by his Chinese spirit-
guide, Tien. I asked Tien, while I was in my normal state,
‘ why, if he were a Chinaman, he could not speak Chinese
through the lips of Mr. Morse ?’ Instantly I was entranced,
and made to speak a language which a ship-captain present
said was pure Chinese, and my remarks were correctly an¬
swered in English by Tien, through the lips of Mr. Morse.
“ Onp evening, about two,years ago, we held a circle in my
own house, I became clairvoyant, and said, 11 see a man in a
blacksmith’s apron; he is hammering a horse-shoe on an
anvil, and the sparks are flying about.’ A son of Mr. Alldis
said, ‘ I’m quite sure that’s uncle so-and-so.’ Mrs. Alldis said,
‘ If Mr. Towns can see the mark on my brother’s face, I will
believe it.’ I saw a mark over his eye, and I was instantly
thrown violently to the ground to indicate how he received it,
‘ Oh, dear me,’ said Mrs. Alldis, * that is my brother,’ and she
was very pleased.
“ About twelve months ago, a gentleman from Yorkshire
called on Mr. Steele, of 86, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell,
and asked for the address of a medium of the name of Towns.
Mr. Steele sent him to me, who was a perfect stranger to him,
and had never seen or heard of him. He came into my shop,
said that he was a Spiritualist, so I asked him to come into
the parlour and take a seat; I walked up and down the room
with the baby in my arms. Presently I turned round and
said, ‘ I see some spirit-friend of yours, and he gives such an
extraordinary name, that I am afraid to repeat it.’ He said,
‘ Do give it.’ I said, ‘ Its Job Wusselwick.’ He answered,
‘ That’s right all but the first letter : it should be Busselwick.’
A few minutes afterwards I said, ‘ I see two hands over the
table, and a lot of deeds. You have been writing about these
deeds, but you wont get them Or hear about them for two
months. The deeds have reference to property ; I see three
seals on each of them, one green and two red, and they are
forged deeds.’ Then I felt two fingers on my neck, and told
him so. He said, ‘ And I felt two touches on my arm.’ He
then added that he had come ^00 miles for that communica¬
tion, and that he had been told through a Yorkshire medium
by an Indian spirit, to go to London, to Mr. Towns, to get the
message. The Yorkshire medium did not know me. The
medium had also told him that two fingers would be placed
on the neck of the London medium, and at the same time he
would have two touches on his arm. While this conversation
took place I was in my normal state, walking about with the
baby in my arms. He called on me several times afterwards,
and received other messages through me about the deeds, and
was told how certain monies connected with the property, had
been paid over to particular persons under protest; I could
give full details, but may not be justified in so doing, as the
case is a serious one. All the information given proved to be
true.
“ One gentleman, now living in Camberwell, received infor¬
mation through my mediumship that his grandfather had
been murdered, and he was told by whom, and why. There
was some property also involved in this case, and a lawsuit is
now going on about it.
“ A few Sundays ago I was out walking near Highbury
Barn with Mr. Landers, Mr. Avery, Mr. Haase, and Mr.
Gadbury, all well-known in connection with the St. John's
Association of Spiritualists. Suddenly I saw a head and face
nodding at me over my shoulder, and I said to Mr. Landers,
‘ Here’s some friend of yours, but I wish he would gd away.’
Mr. Landers said, ‘ Don’t drive him away. Ask for his name.’
The spirit said that he couldn’t give his name, but that he
could do something better. I t’hen saw him in his ordinary
dress at a bench at work, engraving apparently ; at all events,
he was using a cutting-tool and a little hammer. I then saw
another bench with Mr. Landers at work on it,* and the spirit
said that Mr. Landers used to work in that way along with
him. The spirit then took snuff, and he showed me a silver
and mahogany snuff-box; he also called my attention to a
little drawer under the bench, which I minutely described.
Mr. Landers recognised the friend, and all the circumstances,
* In this instance, as in many others, a spirit was probably producing the
manifestation, by acting on the organs of vision of the medium, for Mr.
Landers himself was not working at a bench at the time. Many of the
things seen by seeing-mediums are symbolical teachings.—Ed.
but did not tell me the name of the deceased. On the follow¬
ing Tuesday this same spirit entranced Mrs. Towns, and said
that his name was Simpson. I had never mentioned any of
the preceding circemstances to Mrs. Towns. On the Sunday
morning, after I had told what I saw, Mr. Landers said, ‘ We
will try and get this confirmed.’" We then held a walking-
stick out horizontally, and heard distinct knocks upon it, in
answer to questions.
“ A few weeks ago, Mr. Young, librarian to the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, saw a boy beating a dog in a
timber-yard; he protected the dog from the illtreatment of
the boy. Next day he attended a stance at a house in Little
Cross-street, Islington. I, who knew nothing of the preceding
circumstance, was there, and was entranced by a spirit who
commended Mr. Young for protecting the dog in the timber-
yard. Mr. Young was greatly astonished by the communica¬
tion.
“A few days ago a lady well known among Spiritualists
called on me; in the course of our conversation I was en¬
tranced, and, the spirit told her that he was ‘ Uncle James ;’
also that he had long communicated with her at spirit circles,
and had assisted her much in times of trouble, under the name
of ‘ John Bunyan.’ 'She did not like him while he lived on
earth, and if he had told her his real name before, she would
not have listened to anything he had to say. He had been a
clergyman in life, and was very sorry for it, for when he
reached the other side of the grave, he found that his earth-
life had been much to his disadvantage. The lady was sur¬
prised at the revelation, and acknowledged that she once had
a relative of the name given, also that she had long been in
communication with ‘ John Bunyan.’ ”
Me. Williams, of 2, Great Turnstile, Holborn, is said to
be a good medium for the spirit voice, and the formation of
spirit hands.
Me. T. Blyton, the energetic Secretary of the Dalston
Association of Spiritualists has started a discussion on Spiri¬
tualism in the Hackney and Kingsland Gazette.
Ltveepool Psychological Society.—A society with the
foregoing title has just been established in Liverpool, and
holds its meetings at the Caledonian Hotel, 6, Stafford-street.
Its objects are—“ To promote the study and spread the truths
of Psychology, and to investigate particularly the facts and
teachings embodied in the term ‘ Spiritualism.’ ” Mr. Ambrose
Fegan, of 25, Kemble-street,! Kensington, Liverpool, is the
secretary. President, Mr. George Glover. Vice-President,
Mr. William Wall. Treasurer. Mr. George Wilson. Council,
Messrs. John Taylor, Robert Wood, A. Lament, Griffith Thomas,
Joseph Dinsdale, and James F. Camm. The meetings are
held every alternate Thursday and Friday.
Mes. Haedinge’s Lectuees.—Mrs. Emma Hardinge
lectures regularly every Sunday evening on Spiritualism at
the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Fitzroy-square; the
meetings are moderately well attended. She is also delivering
a series of Wednesday evening lectures at Lawson’s Rooms,
Gower-street. Last Wednesday week she gave an exceUent
I lecture there on “ Children’s Rights.” She spoke in favour of
better education, saying that in English schools the children
ought to be taught systematically to help each other, and to
be kind to one another; this, would be much better than
teaching them catechisms; because of the absence of such
kindly teaching t as she recommended, the first thing the
children of the poor do when they pour into the street out of
national and other schools, is to fight. Last Wednesday she
gave an eloquent lecture on Joan of Arc, and to-night she will
lecture on Music. Mr. Tebb will preside.
Spieitualism in Kilbtjen.—Last Monday week Mr. C.
W. Pearce lectured at the Carlton Hall, Carlton-road, Kilbum,
on “ The Resurrection of the Body.” He explained the dis¬
covery made by modem chemistry, that decomposing animal
substances are absorbed by vegetables, these vegetables are
eaten by man, consequently that some of the chemical sub¬
stances now in human bodies were once in other human
bodies. How then, he argued, could a single spiritual
body consist of matter which had been in the bodies of scores
or hundreds of different persons when they died ? He then
explained the teachings given by certain spirits, that the
spiritual body is made up of certain imponderable spiritual
substances, gathered from the ever-changing material atoms
which form the earthly body. The balance of opinion ex¬
pressed by the listeners was in favour of the arguments of
the lecturer. Last Monday, in the same hall, Mr. T. Everitt
read some “ Extracts from the Diary of a Christian
Spiritualist.” Next Monday there will be a soiree in the same
place ; the particulars will be found in an advertisement on
another page.
The Antheopological Institute.—The Ethnological
and Anthropological Societies have just united into one large
association, under the name of The Anthropological Institute
of Great Britain and Ireland. At the first meeting of the
conjoined societies last Monday week, Dr. R. S. Chamock,
F.S.A., presided, and among the gentlemen present were—
Mr. Andrew Leighton, Mr. William White, Mr. Moncure D.
Conway, Mr. T. Shorter, Mr. J. S. Crisp, and Mr. T. Everitt.
Mr. J. W. Jackson, F.A.S.L.,'read a paper on “ The Racial
Aspects of the Franco-Prussian War,” in which he argued
that the French were a highly nervous race, whilst the
Germans have a preponderance of bone and muscle; he said
that when a nervous race is left to itself it gradually
diminishes in stature and becomes effete, and then is sure to
receive a baptism of blood, from a people superior in bone and
muscle. England, he argued, has not become effete like
France, because it has a due admixture of the muscular
Teutonic element. He also said that the Germans make bad
politicians; they can pull down but not build up, except with
great labour, and they are more fitted for military ascendancy
than any other. In broaching these hypotheses, Mr. Jackson
presented very little in the way of proved facts or statistics,
to show the value of the evidence on which they were based.
In the course of the discussion Mr. Lewis admitted that the
Celts were a highly nervous race, but he thought that race
was not much influenced by conditions of area, as Mr. Jackson
had stated it to be. Dr. Carter Blake said that before 1831,
French military statistics, as to stature were valueless; be¬
tween 1831 and 1849 they were very complete and accurate,
and proved that during that period the French had not
diminished in stature. Dr. King said that he thought area
modified the conditions of the race. Language was no guide
as to race, for a man who could not read or write would lose
his native language when placed for seven years among a
foreign people. Mr. Collier said that the men in some of the
German i-egiments which he had seen captured during the
late war, were remarkable for their short stature. Mr. W.
Dendy, Mr. Chinnery, Mr. Luke Burke, and Mr. Harris said
a few words, and then the debate was adjourned.
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Makcii 15, 1871.
SPIRIT POETSf.
The following inspirational ode was given through the trance-medium-
ship of Mr. T. L. Harris, and was taken down at the time by a shorthand
writer. It will be remembered that Mr. Oliphant left England a few years
ago, to join the community founded in America by this same Mr. Harris,
dan ye lengthen the hours of the dying night ?
Or chain the wings of the morning light?
Or seal the wings of the ocean deep ?
• Or bind the thunders in silent sleep?
The sun that rises ? the seas that flow ?'
The thunders of Heaven, all answer—No I
Can ye drive young spring from the blossoming earth ?
The earthquake still, in its awful birth ?
Will the hand on time’s dial backward flee ?
Or the pulse of the universe pause for thee?
The shaking mountains, the flowers that blow,
The pulse of the universe, answer—No I
Can ye bum a truth in the martyr’s Are ?
Or chain a thought in the dungeon dire?
Or stay the soul, as it soars away
In glorious life, from the mouldering clay?
The truths that live, the thoughts that grow:
The spirit ascending, all answer—No!
O, Priest! 0, Despot! your doom we speak!
For God is mighty, as ye are weak.
Your night and winter from earth must roll;
Your chains must fall from the limb and soul;
Ye have wrought us wrong, ye have wrought us woe:
Can ye triumph longer ? We ans wer—No!
Ye have builded your temples with gems impearled.
On the broken heart of a famished world,
Ye have buried your heroes, in desert graves;
Ye have made your children a race of slaves.
O’er the future age, shall the ruin go;
We gather against you, and answer—No!
Ye laugh us to scorn from your shrines and towers;
But weak are ye, for the truth is ours!
In arms, in gold, and in pride ye move:
But we are stronger—our strength is love.
Stay truth and love with a curse and blow;
The beautiful Heavens they answer—No!
The winter’s night of the earth is past,
The day of humanity dawns at last,
The veil is rent from the soul's clear eyes,
And prophets, and seers, and heroes arise.
Their words and deeds like the thunders go,
Can ye stifle their voices ?—they answer—No!
It is God who speaks in their words and might,
It is God who acts in their deeds and right.
Lo; Eden stands like a glorious bride;
Humanity springs elate to her side!
Can ye sever the twain—who to oneness flow ?
The voice of Divinity answers—No!
©otresponlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
DREAMS—A WARNING OP APPROACHING DEATH—A LONG
TRANCE — AN APPARITION — SPIRIT IDENTITY—CLAIR-
ATTDIENCE—ORTHODOXY—A BRIEF INTERVIEW WITH THE
DEVIL.
Sir,—The following narratives, recorded by me at different
times, may be of interest to your readers :—
April 17th, 1867.—Mrs. C. brought a friend who is interested
in Spiritualism, a Mrs. S. She told us an interesting- incident
which was related to her by a gentleman whom she met at a
dinner party. He said that, in a dream or vision he was
taken to a room in a new house, to which his relations had
recently removed, and where he had never been. On a bed in
the room lay a young lady (his cousin) apparently dying (he
had no knowledge that she was ill), and looking at her intently
he observed that she raised her hand and pointed to a clock
opposite her bed, as if desiring him to mark the time accu¬
rately, which he did. He also took note of all the furniture
and arrangements of the room, that he might know them
again; especially he noticed a singular old bookcase. He
was so deeply impressed with the reality of all this, that he
was not at all surprised when he soon after received the news
of his cousin’s death; and on writing for minute particulars,
found the facts to have occurred just as he witnessed them,
even to the hour by the clock. The gentleman said that this
strange experience was totally inexplicable to him, and that
he rarely mentioned it, but he should always believe that “ by
some means, he was in that room and present at that death.”
July, 1870.—Heard a curious fact from Mrs. G. of a friend
of hers who prognosticated her own death, to the day and
hour. On the Monday previous, she told her family she had
had a “ warning,” and seen the spirit of her husband, who
would come to fetch her on the following Thursday at seven
o’clock. Her children all watched anxiously over her, and at
seven o’clock on the day named, she turned of a deathly livid
hue, became unconscious, and died about an hour afterwards.
July 13th, 1870.—A Mrs. B. called on us as she wanted to
get Dr. Newton’s address. Mr. H. Freeman, President of the
Brixton Society of Spiritualists, sent her to us. She told us
of some most extraordinary things which had occurred to her.
Her husband is in the employment of a gentleman I know
very well. She has been twice in a long trance ; the first
time at ten years of age through fright caused by her father,
who was a great drinker, and who frequently illused herself
and her mother. The second time was after a confinement,
and she was put into a coffin for burial, but the doctor having
some doubt as to death having taken place, bled her, when
she revived. She kept the coffin many years, under her bed.
She said, she did not feel any horror at the situation, but had
a beautiful vision, and thought she was in the spirit-world
surrounded by her children. But the most singular part of
her story was that relating to her mother, who was suddenly
informed that her daughter Mrs. B. was dead (during the
trance), and the shock of the news caused the sudden death
of the mother. Some time after the daughter (Mrs. B.) having
recovered from her illness, heard a knock at her street-door
in the middle of the day and went to open it, and there she
saw her mother standing looking as she usually did, in the
dress she had last worn ; she felt more astonished than
alarmed, and said, “ Ob, mother! how could you come to me
in this way?” The spirit answered, “I am not come to
frighten you, Margaret, but I want to tell you something.”
Mrs. B. then lost sight of her for a minute (through her own
excitement it seemed), but she reappeared again and told her
to go to the room in which she died, at twelve o’clock at
noon the next day, and put her arm up the chimney where
she would feel a ledge with some money hidden on it. Mrs.
B. went and did as directed by the spirit-mother, and found
various small sums of money wrapped up in paper, which
although covered with soot, was not burnt. I inquired, “ Have
you seen her since ?” She said, “ Yes ; but the second time,
she came and pulled back the curtain of my bed, and that
frightened me very much. I saw other spirits, and people
told me it was wrong, so we moved away, and I have not seen
any since.” Dr. Newton, afterwards treated her very success¬
fully for a tumour which had troubled her for fourteen years,
and she told me she saw a spirit and heard a voice say, “ She
will be cured,” while he operated on her.
Jan. 6th, 1871.—Had a sitting at home among ourselves.
Mrs. T. P., Mrs. A., my two sisters and self, and M. J. brought
Miss C. My sister H. was influenced to give a most impres¬
sive and appropriate address, for M. J. and Miss C. (it seemed)
on the recent loss they had had, telling us there was no death,
no separation even, and that there would be great joy and
happiness for us if we would only shake off the trammels of
prejudice, and throw no obstacles in the way of our spirit-
friends communion with us, by our want of faith in them and
their ministrations. Miss C. then told us of a recent spiritual
experience of her own. A gentleman to whom she had been
engaged died suddenly of fever while she was away in the
country. One day,".when she was in her own room, she heard
his voice say, “ You will never marry John.” Much startled
at the strange occurrence, she went downstairs, and again the
ominous words, “You will never marry John,” were repeated
in his own voice, it seemed. That same night she received a
letter announcing his departure, so suddenly that there had
been no time to apprise her of his previous illness.
In January last, one night, my sister J. A. P. had a singular
and to us prophetic dream, which she related in the morning
as follows:—“I dreamt that I was looking on to a lofty
gallery with a low balustrade running round it; and at one
end, close to the low railing, seated in a high-backed ecclesi¬
astical chair, sat a huge figure—a-leathery dried-up lethargic-
looking monster, with head hanging down and yet apparently
Alive. While gazing in wonder, I saw a man with a wand
pointing to it, and lecturing on it, to the assembled people—
and the thought it’s “ Old Orthodoxy,” was impressed upon
my mind. I felt, with horror, that it was about to be pitched
over into the pit below and rushed away from the scene ; but
hearing a terrific crash, as of dry .bones, curiosity overcame
my fears, and I came back and looked below. There I saw
the monster lying, a heap of ruins, and crushed in the dust of
ages as it seemed ; a tremulous motion of the legs alone re¬
mained, as if to prove it was not quite dead, though over¬
thrown.
On the night of Feb. 17th last, I had a very odd dream,
particularly so, as I do not believe in “ The Devil.” I dreamt
I was alone in a large room, in broad daylight. Some one
knocked at the door, which I at once opened, and there stood
a stranger, a man with a very aquiline nose and sinister
expression of countenance ; in fact, exactly resembling a
picture on our screen, of the Mephistopheles of Goethe’s
“ Faust,” and I recognised him as his Satanic Majesty himself
in propria persona. 1 asked him, 8 What do you come here
for ? ” Instead of answering me, he said, “ Who’s that sitting
in that chair ? ” and he pointed to one in front of the fire¬
place, with its back towards us. I looked at the chair, but to
me it was empty, so I said, “ There’s no one here but me, will
you not come in ?” for I felt curious to see a little more of
my mysterious visitor. But he, still staring at the chair, and
backing out, said, “ No, there's A Presence in that chair which
protects you, and makes this room too hot even for me; ” and
he turned and walked off very fast. I laughed to see him
frightened, and said, “ I know who you are, and should like to
have another look at such a renowned personage.” “No,
no,” he roared out, but I, growing braver as he retreated,
called after him in the politest name I could think of as
applicable to him, “ Old Gentleman ! Old Gentleman ! Come
back ! ” He only answered by two terrific sneezes, which
rung through the long corridor down which I seemed to watch
his retreating figure, hurrying away. E. D. P.
SPIRITUAL NOMENCLATURE.
Sir,—I am delighted to see that the term “magnetic ” and
“animal magnetism” will henceforth disappear from your
pages in connection with Spiritualism. The picture they
always call up before my mind is that of Faraday’s diamagnetic
leg of mutton adjusting itself between the poles of his electro
magnet. May I suggest that it would be well to get rid of the
hideous Graeco-Latin hybrid “ mediumisfic,” by adopting in
its stead the pure Latin “ medial.” Also that the somewhat
less objectionable, but still crossbred “ spiritualistic ’’ should,
as far as possible, be displaced by the pure “ spiritual.” There
are probably cases in which the latter change could not at
present be made, but wherever possible the advantage might
be secured. Truthseeker.
Bristol.  
Sir,—Whilst reading the interesting and instructive article
on “ Electricity, Magnetism, and the Human Body,” from the
pen of Mr. Varley, it occurred to me that we had had a spirit
communication some considerable time ago bearing bn the
subject in question, and thinking it might, perhaps, throw
some additional light upon it, or at least make assurance
doubly sure, I sought it out from amongst a Considerable col¬
lection of spirit messages.
The time has surely come when all true Spiritualists should
be learning to call things by their right names, and not con¬
tinue to use, or rather misuse, terms which no longer convey a
correct idea. We should therefore hail with deep satisfaction
every fresh thought or word that is calculated to present the
great truth which we—as Spiritualists—are contending for in
the best and truest form of speech.
The terms objected to, served their purpose when no better
were known or thought of, but now that they have been called
in question, let us try and gather all the information we can,
with the motive and for the purpose of eliciting truth.
The spirit message is dated, 6th January, 1870, and is as
follows .—-
“ Brothers and Sisters,—It is the absence or the excess of an
imponderable element you know nothing of, nor can we make
you cognisant of it by giving it a name, but to enlighten you
a little we will give you the name of this elementary some¬
thing which is the connecting link between matter and spirit.
It is an emanation of a very subtle aura or gas from the nerves
of the body—in fact, the power that obeys the will, and is the
greatest power next the spirit. Call it, then, the “ Nerve-
element;” by any other you cannot be sufficiently impressed
with the force the name implies, nor can we give you any
analysis of it, beyond stating that it is the power of spirit to
blend with matter, and the same of matter to blend with
spirit. In the lack of this power, then, we cannot grasp the
hand or impress the mind ; in the excess of it, we cani\ot
grasp the hand but impress the mind; and with the supera¬
bundance of it, neither the material body nor the spirit can
make themselves sufficiently harmonious to be understood.
You will see, then, that an insufficiency may be—indeed is,
attributable to the nerve state of your body, and when that is
prostrated by fatigue or many other causes, no blending can
take place. In order, then, for impressional writing the body
needs discipline and diet, that the nerves may be strung up to
them proper pitch ; this is often done by mild diet and a
propgr amount, of fasting, until the essiSnces of the body are
in a state of decomposition, and give off their exhalations to
the \y<j>rld of. Spirit, as the flower gives off its fragrance and
fills the air with its perfume, according to its nature.”
I have copied the message as given. E. D.
19, LeamingtOn-road-villas, Westbourne-park, W.
Sir,—I have long been on bad terms with the word “ mag¬
netism ’’ in psychological matters, for when we analyse it we
come first to magnet, which suggests “ dinner knives making
desperate rushes across the table/’ and so we see the word is
clearly unadapted for the place it so often supplies. “ Psycho¬
logical influence ” is little if any better, and as regards the
word “mesmerise,” you may as well"call it Elliotsonise,
Ashburnerise, or Reichenbachise, as Mesmerise, for the
phenomenon was produced long before the time of Mesmer,
therefore his name has no real right to be attached to it,
especially as it is not a good word. I know of no really good
word; but the one which seems to me best adapted to our
wants is “ Odyle,” as we-might call the act of using the fluid
which produces artificial sleep, “ to Odylise,” and the general
use of it, Odylism. If this will not do, and you cannot find
a better, perhaps some one can invent a good word to meet
our want. Should the word “ Odyle ” be accepted, it should
be understood to mean only the fluid produced in animate
beings op.Joy vital Action, and not by magnets, heat, or light.
That there is a fluid which needs a name is proved by the
fact that iit can be seen by sensitives to flow from the hand of
the operator when in the act of producing sleep in a subject.
I hope the whole Spiritual press will take up this matter in
earnest, and agree on some suitable words which can be used
both in England and America from henceforth.
T. C. Davies,
215, Brunswick-street, Manchester, March 6th, 1871.
SEEIN G-MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—At a meeting of the Dalston Association of Enquirers
into Spiritualism, held on Thursday evening, 2nd March, 1871,
with ten members and six visitors present, lights and spirit
hands were seen by several. The spirit of Mr. Wm. Pawley,
late a member of the association, who passed from this life on
27th January last, was discerned by Mrs. M. Richmond, and
by my sister-in-law, Mrs. Ada Blyton. Mrs. Richmond, one of
our members, also discerned the spirit of a Mr. W. "Willsden,
well known to our president. The movements of the table
were intensified when those present joined in singing. A
special seance will be held soon, conditions of admission to
which can be had on application to me.
Thomas Blyton, Secretary, &c.
ALLEGED CONDITIONS OP SPIRIT LIFE.
Sir,—The'1 Writer of this is not only a confirmed believer,
but also a knower of spirit manifestations, acquired through
some eighteen years close and patient study of Spiritualism.
And through the knowledge conveyed to myself by
“spirits,” I have learned that it is certain that the next or
“ spirit ” world after this human life, is not an eternal world,
nor an abode of perfect happiness. But that it is a progressive
state of evil as well as of good beings.
Even as a physical caterpillar progresses to the state of a
butterfly, yet its insect nature is the same.
Good spirits thus promoted from human life have their
sorrows as well as their joys, and this first “ spirit ” life or
existence is no complete “ summer land ’’ of perfect happiness.
Evil “spirits ” also are promoted from human life, have their
joys as well as sorrows, though their joys are worthless and
rotten, because they are based upon selfishness and injustice.
But their sorrows are substantial and thorough, and because
of their sinful, that is selfish nature, are much increased and
fearfully intense and painful.
This first “ spirit ” life ends in death, the same as in human
life. And this second death begins very many other lives and
deaths, which every human being has to pass through before
it can attain to what is rather vaguely, and [as I think
absurdly] termed the “ summer land.’’
But I. Conceive.that not only in a first “spirit” life or state,
but also in many other spirit lives or existences, we shall feel
the cold of winter, or its similitude, that is of sorrows and
trials, &c.
And that it may be not only hundreds, but thousands of
years before we see again the dear friends and relatives,
who have passed away from this earth-world of ours, through
the pathway of death.
For as we humans, when dead to this life, ascend to a pro¬
gressed life and world, so also our dear passed away rela¬
tives and friends have in their turn again died and “ live ”
again, and will die and live again and again in very many
and numerous other worlds beyond and beyond.
So that it may be a very long period of time ere we
rejoin the dear ones who have lived with us and whom we
loved, when they were living in this world or earth.
And as they have differed in their amount of goodness or
an approach to perfection while here, so we shall rejoin them
only separately and one by one; and probably not until
cycle of ages have passed shall we be united to the whole
company of friends we have lived with and loved, in our
early life upon this our earth. W. M. M.
[Some spirits cannot see each other, and this letter is inserted to aseer-
taih how far the assertions of our correspondents are supported by testi¬
mony received through other mediums.—Ed.]
THE RELIABILITY OF SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—As the intimate associate of the late E. N. Dennys,
I feel it my duty to notice a passage in the narration of a
seance headed “ Spiritualism at Home.” signed by F. J. Theo¬
bald, of Hendon, and published in The Spiritualist of the
15th ult. I would therefore feel thankful to have inserted
in your next issue of your journal this letter of mine on the
subject. The passage referred to is the following :—
“A few weeks ago, in a very beautiful message, purporting to come
from Ed. Dennys, the well-known author of Alpha (and also a Unitarian
whilst on earth), these words are used—‘ The Fatherhood is universal, but
it is a truth I did not grasp, that it ultimated fully in the Spirit of Christ,
His Son, &c.’ ”
Regretable always it is to see the indiscriminate publica¬
tion of so-called spirit-communications ; and great indeed is
the wrong done to those of the spirit-world, and to the cause
of Spiritualism thereby. In the present instance, such is the
thoughtlessness expressed in the passage quoted, apart from
the irrationality of the ideas conveyed, and their utter
antagonism to those of the pre-eminent Humanitarian thinker
with whom they are so falsely associated—that, to at least
those acquainted with his life and works, nothing, per. se, can
be more superfluous than in any way noticing it. Moreover
March 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
as few realize the sacredness of truth and the divine nature of
the human soul, it is sad to see treated lightly the name of
one representing the highest of all principles—who has with
such thoroughness done so, and loved this blessed Truth and
Humanity dearer far than life ; the failing is but as the
fleeting shadow to the heavenly sunlight, simply imparting an
intenser sense of its vital value.
The perversion, however, of the most important of principles
seems to have been the main object of the said spirit’s “ very
beautiful message,” and therefore it does not permit of silent
treatment.
The Alpha (the new edition of which has just been revised
by its author, and contains, as an appendix, his spiritual
advent) is a philosophical enquiry into the nature of truth. It
radically examines the nature of Deity, and that of man, and
in the simplest and clearest manner, positively solves these
most momentous of all subjects ; these great truths being the
essential basis of real religion and sterling happiness ; and, in
doing so, all those irrational and crime-fostering delusions,* of
which that of “ original sin ” and the Deification of Christ re¬
present the chief, are shown to be as dishonouringly incon¬
sistent with the nature of an all-intelligent and Omniscient
God, who has made man (the spiritual being) “ in His own
image,” as (self-evidently is asserted by those sadly pernicious
doctrines) His possessing those powers, and at the same time
not possessing them, can be.
Regarding the reference to the author of Alpha,being an
Unitarian, I may just remark that only in the sense of recog¬
nising but one God, can that term apply to him. His religion
has nothing to do with sects, but accords with the (unper¬
verted) ethics of Jesus in all their simple purity of practice—
that Spiritualism which exists only in a greatly misapplied
name at present, an ever-active love to God and man, and
therefore is as boundless as the universe.
A. C. Swtnton.
5, Cam bridge-road, N.W. March 12th, 18G1.
* Because, as with the infatuating and godless selfish¬
ness that devised it, a blind faith in the heaven-giving effi¬
cacy of another's spiritual victory, act how we may (despite
the voice of reason, which is the voice of God and the whole
life and teaching of Christ to the contrary), is a Church-
endorsed licence for wrong-doing ; too tempting, unhappily,
for most “ Christians ” to care to open their eyes to and re¬
nounce.—A. C. S.
[This is a very interesting case. The spirit of an unorthodox man is said
to have communictated with Mr. Swinton and with Miss Theobald. The
one receives unorthodox and the other receives orthodox messages from
the alleged communicant. Firstly, what is the evidence that it is Dennys
who sends the messages? Secondly, to what extent are the messages
warped by the opinions of the mediums ? So far as we know some mediums
are transmitting instruments, whilst others are both translating and trans¬
mitting machines. For instance, where spirits unknown to the medium
cannot give their names and addresses through his or her organism, they
seem to put ideas into the brain, which ideas seem to be warped by a biassed
anslating mind, before they reach the outer world.—Ed.]
M. JACOB, THE HEA1EE.
Sie,—All who wisb to avail themselves of M. Jacob’s won¬
derful gift of healing should do so at once, as it is probable
that the conclusion of the war will hasten his return to Paris.
During his stay in London he has done much good. In order
to receive the full benefit, it is wise for most invalids to keep
up the influence by repeating their visits two or three times,
waiting a week or so between each visit.
All that is necessary on the part of the patient is to sit
perfectly passive whilst M. Jacob’s influence is placing him
en rapport with the healing fluid (this lasts about a quarter of
an hour), therefore the fact of his being unable to converse in
English need be no hindrance whatever to anyone wishing to
go, who is unable to speak French.
M. Jacob never requires to ask any questions, but his one
great desire is that all medicines should be abstained from
entirely, as they interfere with the influence.
He also wishes all to know that reaction is almost certain to
set in, more or less severely, according to the nature of the
illness. This is caused by the influence acting through the
system, and thus overcoming latent mischief. His address is
32, Bryanston-street, Portman-square, W. He is at home
daily, from three to six o’clock. He will attend any private
houses during the evening. Fees are entirely optional, and
range from as low as one shilling, where there is a desire to
offer a trifle, but an inability to give much. F. J. T.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
Among the great questions which dayjby day are growing
in strength, an'd which in course of time must receive prac¬
tical attention, is that of “ Woman’s Rights.” In this coun¬
try women are by the customs of society shut out from many
kinds of employment; they also have less freedom of action
than men, and the same social law of right and wrong is not
applied to the same acts in both sexes. The laws relating to
married women’s property were until the passing of the
Married Women’s Property Act in August last, of a most
selfish and unjustifiable, nature ; and ten, twenty, or thirty
years more, perhaps, will have to pass, before men and
women will be recognised as equal in the eye of the law. A
paragraph has been published in the newspapers (we saw it
in the Haverfordwest Telegraph) that Jenny Lind’s husband
has spent all the fortune she acquired by her profession, that
they have separated by mutual consent, and that she is about
to earn a living by teaching music. This newspaper para¬
graph may be true or false, but at all events we all know that
the laws of semi-civilised communities are so unjust with
respect to women, that such a statement is likely enough to
be true.
Spiritualism has a tendency to effect many a revolution. A
very few years ago, no members of a religious body ever aston¬
ished the officials at Kensal Green Cemetery by attending a fu¬
neral in dresses of brilliant colours, and by also bearing large
quantities of flowers to strew over the coffin; yet such scenes
have recently been enacted by those who know that people who
by deed rather than by word, lead an upright life on earth, go
immediately into a state of great happiness at death. Those
who know that the'“ deceased ” is greatly benefited by the
change, of course, see no reason why they should selfishly
mourn because an individual is made happy. Those sects
who live in tormenting doubts as to whether their departed
friends have gone to a place never mentioned to ears polite,
may possibly do right to wear mourning. Now this abolition
of mourning dresses among Spiritualists is a great and good
practical reform. Is it possible to establish another reform,
and to make it a recognised custom among Spiritualists
never to get married without having the whole of the property
belonging to the wife settled on her, so far as the law will
enable such an act of honesty to be performed ?
This question of Woman’s Rights is introduced here for the
purpose of eliciting the opinions of Spiritualists on the sub¬
ject, especially as there are many connected with the move¬
ment who may wish to [give expression to their thoughts on
the matter.
There is in London a “National Society for Woman’s
Suffrage Mrs. P. A. Taylor, Aubrey House, Notting-hill, is
Secretary to the London Branch, and Mrs. M. E. Tebb, of 20,
Rochester-road, Camden-town, N., is a Spiritualist who works
actively in aid of the movement.
The following is an extract from Mr. John Stuart Mill’s
book on the Subjection of Women (Longmans) :—
“ The generality of a practice is in some cases a strong pre¬
sumption that it is, or at all events once was, conducive to
laudable ends. This is the case, when the practice was first
adopted, or afterwards kept up, as a means to such ends, and
was grounded on experience of the mode in which they could
be most effectually attained. If the authority of men over
women, when first established, had been the result of a con¬
scientious comparison between different modes of constituting
the government of society; if, after trying various other
modes of social organization—the government of women over
men, equality between the two, and such mixed and divided
modes of government as might be invented—it had been
decided, on the testimony of experience, that the mode in
which women are wholly under the rule of men, having no
share at all in public concerns, and each in private being
under the legal obligation of obedience to the man with
whom she has associated her destiny, was the arrangement
most conducive to the happiness and well-being of both ; its
general adoption might then be fairly thought to be some
evidence that, at the time when it was adopted, it was
the best: though even then the considerations which recom¬
mended it may, like so many other primeval social facts of
the greatest importance, have subsequently, in the course of
ages, ceased to exist. But the state of the case is in every
respect the, reverse of this. In the first place, the opinion in
favour of the present system, which entirely subordinates the
weaker sex to the stronger, rests upon theory only ; for there
never has been trial made of any other ; so that experience,
in the sense in which it is vulgarly opposed to theory, cannot
be pretended to have pronounced any verdict. And in the
second place, the adoption of this system of inequality never
was the result of deliberation, or forethought, or any social
ideas, or any notion whatever of what conduced to the benefit
of humanity or the good order of society. It arose simply
from the fact that from the very earliest twilight of human
society, every woman (owing to the value attached to her by
men, combined with her inferiority in muscular strength) was
found in a state of bondage to some man. Laws and systems
of polity always begin by recognising the relations they find
already existing between individuals. They convert what
was a mere physical fact into a legal right, give it the sanc¬
tion of society, and principally aim at the substitution of
public and organised means of asserting and protecting these
rights, instead of the irregular and lawless conflict of phy¬
sical strength. Those who had already been compelled to
obedience became in this manner legally bound to it. Slavery,
from being a mere affair of force between the master and
the slave, became regularised and a matter of compact among
the masters, who, binding themselves to one another for
common protection, guaranteed by their collective strength
the private possessions of each, including his slaves. In early
times, the great majority of the male sex were slaves, as well
as the whole of the female. And many ages elapsed, some of
them ages of high cultivation, before any thinker was bold
enough to question the rightfulness, and the absolute social
necessity, either of the one slavery or of the other. By degrees
such thinkers did arise : and (the general progress of society
assisting) the slavery of the male sex has, in all the countries
of Christian Europe at least (though, in one of them, only
within the last few years) been at length abolished, and that
of the female sex has been gradually changed into a milder
form of dependence. But this dependence, as it exists at
present, is not an original institution, taking a fresh start
from considerations of justice and social expediency—it is
the primitive state of slavery lasting on, through successive
mitigations and modifications occasioned by the same causes
which have softened the general manners, and brought all
human relations more under the control of justice and the
influence of humanity. It has not lost the taint of its brutal
origin. No presumption in its favour, therefore, can be drawn
from the fact of its existence. The only such presumption
which it could be supposed to have, must be grounded on its
having lasted till now, when so many other things which came
down from the same odious source have been done away with.
And this, indeed, is what makes it strange to ordinary ears, to
hear it asserted that the inequality of rights between men
and women has no other source than the law of the strongest.
“ That this statement should have the effect of a paradox,
is in some respects creditable to the progress of civilisation,
and the improvement of the moral sentiments of mankind.
We now live—that is to say, one or two of the most advanced
nations of the world now live—in a state in which the law of
the strongest seems to be entirely abandoned as the regulating
principle of the world’s affairs : nobody professes it, and,, as
regards most of the relations between human beings, nobody
is permitted to practise it. When any one succeeds in doing
so, it is under cover of some pretext which gives him the
semblance of having some general social interest on his side.
This being the ostensible state of things, people flatter them¬
selves that the rule of mere force is ended;' that the law of
the strongest cannot be the reason of existence of anything
which has remained in full operation down to the present
time. However any of our present institutions may have
begun, it can only, they think, have been preserved to this
period of advanced civilisation by a well-grounded feeling of
its adaptation to human nature, and conduciveness to the
general good. They do not understand the great vitality and
durability of institutions which place right on the side of
might; how intensely they are clung to ; how the good as
well as the bad propensities and sentiments of those who have
power in their hands, become identified with retaining it;
how slowly these bad institutions give way, one at a time, the
weakest first, beginning with'those which are least interwoven
with the daily habits of life ; and how very rarely those who
have obtained legal power, because they first had physical,
have ever lost their hold of it until the physical power had
passed over to the other side.”
MISS KATE STOKES’S MEDIUMSHIP.
TABLE-LEVITATIONS—SPIBIT HANDS—SPIRIT VOICES.
Miss Kate Stokes, of 29, Kingsdown-road, Upper Hollo¬
way, London, is fast developing into a very remarkable
medium. As yet the leading phenomena which are com¬
monly manifested in her presence, are the levitation of solid
objects, such as tables, in the light, while her own hands and
those of a few others are in contact with the upper surface of
the object; under these conditions it is an everyday thing for
tables to rise several inches clear of the floor, and to float in
the air. In the darkness, spirit hands are formed in her pre¬
sence ; they permit themselves to be felt by the sitters and
are very active in moving articles of dress and other objects
about the room during the seances. Spirit voices have begun
to feebly manifest themselves in her presence ; she has also
begun to exhibit some of the earlier phases of trance medium-
ship.
About four years ago Spiritualism was brought under the
notice of her father, Mr. Stokes, at an hotel in Gloucester by
Mr. James Burns, the result being that he began to read on
the subject. About a year afterwards he was introduced to
Mr. J. S. Steele, of 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell, and
went to a seance at Mr. Steele’s house, where, through the
table motions, he received a message about his son, who was
then on his way to Australia, which message afterwards
proved to be untrue. Mr. Stokes continued his enquiries,
and about a year ago he and his family began to sit at home
for manifestations, Mr. Woolnough,' Mr. Steele, and Mr.
Robert Gore being also present. They had some wonderful
physical manifestations ; Mr. Woolnough was moved about
violently in his chair while his feet were off the ground, and
the table motions were of a powerful character. Sometimes
they attended a circle at Mr. Mannion’s house.
Afterwards, Mr Stokes and his family tried to get manifes¬
tations at home, without the presence of any visitor possess¬
ing medial powers, and at the first ten or twelve sittings could
get nothing, except that at one of the sittings Miss Kate
Stokes saw the spirit of a deceased relative, Mrs. Cox, and
was very much frightened. Since that time she has not seen
much at circles. Then gentle table-tiltings were obtained,
through which they could get messages, but for a long time
afterwards no other kind of manifestation was developed.
After a time, the messages by tilts became confused, letters
which did not form intelligible words were signalled out, but
the table would often move about with great ease and vigour
when nobody was touching it. At last it spelt out a message
saying that if they would sit in the dark, spirit hands would
be formed, and by following the advice they obtained them
the same night. Mrs. Stokes was very nervous on this occa¬
sion, and sat with a cloak over her head, so that the hands
should not touch her; collars, necklaces, and articles of dress
were taken off the other sitters by the hands, and fastened
with hair-pins to the cloak on the top of Mrs. Stokes’s head ;
the bands also piled a heap of small articles of dress and other
objects on the table. These hands usually feel warm, but
sometimes icy cold; they are delicately formed, and they
always take what they want at once, without feeling about
for it, clearly showing that the owners or formers of the hands
can see to perfection in the dark. A sleeve or frill has often
been felt round the wrist of each hand.
One evening, about two months ago, the members of the
circle were singing—
“ Shall we meet heyond the river?”
And a spirit-voice whispered “ We shall! ” Afterwards the
same voice mentioned the names of all the members of the
family, and said that on the following Sunday Kate would be
entranced for the first time. This afterwards proved to be
true. Several times since, some trance communications have
been given through her lips. At other times she is in her
normal state while sitting at circles, and feels no peculiar
sensations of any kind while the manifestations are going on.
The American literature of Spiritualism shows that in some
very rare instances, spirit-hands are seen to form in the air, in
the twilight, or in a dimly lighted room. Most commonly,
however, they are formed in the dark, and are sometimes
afterwards projected into the light, if facilities be given. We
therefore suggest that an experiment be tried by making two
holes in the opposite ends of a large empty box; that Miss
Kate Stokes thrust her arm into the box through a sleeve in
one hole while a curtain is over the other hole, to try whether
the spirits can then form several hands and arms, and thrust
them out of the opposite end of the box into the light.
St. John’s Association of Spieithaiists.—On Thursday,
March 2nd, Mr. T. Shorter gave a free public lecture on
Spiritualism, at the St. John’s Temperance Hall, Corporation-
row, Clerkenwell. The admission was free, and Mr. W. Man-
nion presided. Mr. Shorter entered at length into the various
arguments for and against Spiritualism, and it was a very
good lecture. At its close Mr. Barber said that he and his
family had recently obtained table manifestations at home for
the first time ; his own mother communicated with them, and
gave her age, as well as other facts, correctly. He said to her,
“ How is dear Aunt Ottery ?” who had also entered the spirit
world some time since. The table remained firmly fixed upon
the floor. Suddenly he remembered what the Spiritualists
had told him about human beings not losing their identity on
entering the next world, and how they carry their old thoughts
and feelings with them ; he also remembered that his mother
strongly disliked “Aunt Ottery.” He therefore said to the
table, “Are you annoyed because I said dear Aunt Ottery ?”
The table then gave three terrific bumps, as if it would knock
the floor in. On hearing this statement, a youth in the audience
remarked that if human being! were not made angels by
some great power when they entered the next world, he would
rather not go there at all. After some further discussion the
meeting broke up. We may add that the fact that a man is
not transformed into somebody else when he enters the next
world, is among the greatest of the teachings of Spiritualism,
for it shows that we must, educate, reform, and make angels of
ourselves down here, if we want to enter into the company of
angelic people after death; this is a much greater spur to
industry and good works, than the popular notion that we may
sit down idly and believe certain things, then be suddenly
changed into angels after death.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.'
W. H. (Stockton-on-Tees).—The'medium is the best judge. Will
you send us further information?
J. M. P. (Hummonton, U. S.)—The newspaper received yesterday
We have sent it to a lady who made some discoveries about the
mediumship of the clergyman mentioned.
A. B. 0. (Edinburgh).—Your letter is in type, but crowded out of
this number.
A. N. A. Perspective de Nevsky, 6, St. Petersburg—Your sugges¬
tions shall be complied with.
152
THE SPIRITUALIST
March 15, 1871
FACT'S FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those'coming
within'the'orlmary*ran^b of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite< right not to accept them
on the testimony Of'’others. Each individual
should witn'ets* and test them personally, and
beliere nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES HTVES-
IIGATION.
The testimony of; reliable an4; r&^pqptahle jwij;-;
nesses that the phepornena, of.,.,SJpirit,u|lisi!ci’l,are
actual fae^s,, an,d. not, impp^tpreTor delusiorij of
late years, sq>ccuniulatOT as'to’possess' yery |$eat
weight.'" cstee of’Lj^bh v. Home,’1 Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr., C. P, Yariey. Dr.,Gjilly, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C.^Hall, ahd’bthete,-.all made affidayitsi
strongly in favour of Mr. 'Home. ’The following
whs a portion of the affidavit'-of Mr. C. F. Yariey,
C.E., P.R(ShS:»iM.R.I.:—' •
“I have been'"a 'sttideSt*bf electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for tvyenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by ..profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this, suit,'and-, stated that I 'had,
net yet; witnessed any bf the1 physical-phenomena, blit
that lUwas- a scientific' man and; wished to investigate
thfewecarefullyli,;-,- < • • - c
(“He immediately gave me eyery facility for the pur¬
pose,'ah'd dfesirbd'me to's’atiefyhnyseh iii eve^y-possible
wfty;*aiifl* Y havehheen "-with > him 'o'n divers': pceasipns-
when the phenprtjer^thaye-^cpljred, J have1 examined,
and tested,them‘wijth'Mmt^pd .withethere, uijdev con¬
ditions of my owheltgic^ underia hr^ht Iitet,:and'hay^
made the most jealous and seah<|hid^fs§&1Say.W
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tbsts, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due, to md ope1tati6n,pf .any of'the^recognijied’’
physical laws-'of naturefand' that-there .has'heen present
on the! occasions aboytfmentioned sopjp -.intelligence
other than that of the meaiuin and observers.”
‘It also came out»inv the evideiice given at the
trial, that Mr. Honie bad been the invitediand nn-
pald guest of the Emperor and^the: Empress of-the
French, the Emperor, :Eq|p'resaj aid the cldte-Em-
press Dowagpribf((Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the'.late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, .ahd the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that* all'his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the "sub¬
ject':— 1 ' Ip mil t,,.. ,
... ‘‘CyomwelliE'Yarjey,iEs^.'^Fleetwood-house, Beeken-
ham ; "Alfred - R*. AYallaee,V EsC, '’ 'H611y House," Bark-'
ing; Professor De Morgan, 91’,* Adelaide-rdad, N.Y!--.;;
Captain Drayson, B.A., ‘Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priqiy, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villaB, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.O.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-placO,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Hewitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers^ "Esq., St.^Andrew’s,’ Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, , Esq., -K-ilmorey-house,,. Norwood";: -jJ.'. Gr
Crawford, Esq., 52, .Glouoesterrerqscent, N.W.; W. M:
Wilkinson,’'Esq.,’ Oakfleld, "Kilburh; Lord Adare,-' 5,
Buckingham-gate ; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”'"'.
Mrs. De Morgan has written' a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans),1 where* she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
D'e Morgan,1 President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in* his preface to the book, says
I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual,' which earmot he taken by
a rational being to he capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. )Yallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the'- inventor of' the Hare’s Galvanic, Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena, •
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
aetion ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which-
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently^
in England, Viscount Adare .has-written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was. published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870 :—> .
20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“Dear Mu. Vablet,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th 'inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “ Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modern Science.”
“You have been working ..at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let'this openness he a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in-
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a* crime on,; niy 'part, bdt -rather aS a peculiarity in my
scientiflcieauitataon. j , ,' '■ {qu -k: .s'J ,» . y*. ..-t
“I have' already (lad many.letters,(poth from, Si>iri-
tualists and from leading men" of ‘ s'crefi'Se, §g,yjfig ®th^
they'are’glad I have ’taken up the subjebt; ahd w^ng
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so man®
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the ' good
friends I possess amongst the SpirituaHifiB.—Behove'
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,- > . . * fcteajkMB
William: Crookes,"
A work entitled The Book of Nature,’Toy 0.-Df
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London,- John Camden-
Hotten, 1870), has a preface By the* late . Lord-
Brougham, in which that' eminent/statesihan'';
says:— - , < •••..' ;
i,,“Tjiere is but one question I would ask the author,4^,’
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our maiterialiptipj
manufacturing age?—No,;, for .anjidst the varieties' of,
mind.;.which divers" circumstances'- produce, are-fo'und*
those who,vcultivate man’s highest facuities;-—to:th6|54'
the’ author’addresses himself. But. even in the mpstj
?cloudJiesi’bkies bf scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be,-np ;
bigger thaiva man’s hand ; it is Modern Spirituahim.:'’^
QjjBHmprcfcR ’Dfffljiiaflh a Sic3iaar. gfflflemaat
at Clifton, has written a ^ppqphlet, Sttll-' ui ^p-iiit;!!1
in which he severely censures -Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes,1 and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it'to be an imposture: The
following are his words -
.. “I now ofieryou two challenges.
.“First, I challenge you, ’ or’either of you, or any of
the public who, like . you,'disbelieve-in thergenuine' eha-r:
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit-in, the
hands of any well-known London hanker whom, you'or
they may name, the sum of five hundred .guineas ; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the" same hank;
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one^ thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my prbvmg by evidence1
sufficient, to establish any fact m’hifetefy ’br.'ih a criminal'
or civil court of justice. ’
. First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner Inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter, does'move;
without the aid of any mechanical or, known chemical'
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi-j
tafion."
“ Thirdly—.That voices apperteming to -no one ih the
flesh are heard to Speak and hold rational converse with
rnSn.;. <| jj I kj . , ,, , , , ,,■
“ A jury of twentyrf6ur,.g§ntlemen, tTOjvq'tp be dhosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively <5f *&£&-
bers of the learned professions and literary men), fb
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of „ established* eh'afact'er. -A’ majority', 6fJ
the twenty-fouvto decide. • Tf the verdict be that’thesei
facts have ,-wof been established, the thousand-guineas
'are, to belong to the party accepting this.challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established^ the thou¬
sand'guineas to he mine. ■
: “ Secondly-7-Immediately after the above wager being-
decided, either,, way, I offer a like, challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (ib be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of "the" second sum of one
thousand guineas -to depend, upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
1 “ In either ease, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the juiy may select,
and which may he available for the purpose.. '
“The'result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to he advertised by the victorious pariy, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. DAMIANI.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager, of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street,, Bristol’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to tke above' evidence,-tBei'e is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities'. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New Ameriha estimates the number of, Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
y\/hen reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
■the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
: An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis-
■factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no-fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
'to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are' six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
bn this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive mttings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter.it, and that there shall he no inter¬
ruption, for one hour (luring the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy' weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in Contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, hut not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that maybe
* oBtaihed. * •
1 ,4ivB&apde' whoAb not like each other should, not sit in
{the same.’ circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
spreypni ' manifestations, except with1 well-developed
nhyg&al mediums;' it is not yet known why. Belief or
-wBMief'Has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
. S. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
In1 genera,! conversation or in singing, and it is best that
.(neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
pamest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
Jtofattfact a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
* o, Theffirst symptom of the invisible power at work is
- oftei&Sr ffieling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The. jlrst 'nlamfestations will probably be table tiltings or
yaps.. -,. ,
fe:7.'!\T&en za^tions bf the table or sounds are produced
fraelyji to aybid confusion,' let one person only speak,
Stod , jtsjkvjto-; the , table as to. an intelligent being.
Let; hjoi-jtellkthe. table that three tilts or raps mean
>;Yes?i,one mteans, “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
'aSjdraslr wkbmer the': arrangement -.is (understood. ■ If
(thtoeSigi&lS be given-in answer, thbnjsay, “If I speak.
J&dottofbtof-'the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
, J/dOTnB; to Abe letter _yqu want, and spell us out a
three1 signals be given,- set to work
onttKf'pmfi proposed, and from this time an intelligent
systenftofecffipttmniiiitatijjn ^established!
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will he'
afterwards strengthened. .Next ask, “Who is the
'mqdium ?" When spirits, come asserting themselves to
(33" remed^Dr (known tb ahybbdy present, well-chosen
'i|be^ion&,''Slfbul<i*be .put to--test the accuracy of the
stateineritSj -as spirits out of the,body have fill the Virtues
and-iU.thefaiilmgs of spirits in the body.
Pqssibiy;at’ the first sitting of a circle symptoms
‘of 'othfer5 forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
smay/make’tfie5F appearance. Information respect-
ihg^ffie;;many kinds of medinmship will be found
Ijin'MS'hAEj^FeSBor De Mofgah’sjbook, Front Matter
J’uhi&h^d^hy Longmans;; and this is a
go5d -shook to read before trying to start a new
circle/^!
British imperial insurance
I j .cQrpqration; . LIMITED.
y^Wraitl TOf fSl FOR EFFE^TINO ’ 1
BANKING: LP’E,> SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
, Ig qp .GpYEhNMENT SECURITIES.
^:j jtiJ' HeafPOffiees:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
’Ytotoria-buildings, 66, Renfleld-street, Glasgow.
'fi -’^itlolleg^gfben, Dublin.
1 Ll,‘Brown’s-buildings,. Exchange, Liverpool.
; . ' ,93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
: Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
- THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
. It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds. .
' Ail the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses, of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitgbh (Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac¬
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
cap be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous.of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, ■ and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount,1 for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured. I
, .Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free" or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr. F.E.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager : John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
SUNDAY EYENING MEETINGS in con-
’ nection with SPIRITUALISM, conducted by Mrs.
Emma HArdinge, are held every Sunday evening, at
1, Cleveland Assembly Rooms, Clevelahd-street, Fitzroy-
square. Admission free. There is a collection at the
doors.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
The kilburn association for
INVESTIGATING THE TRUTHFULNESS OF
SPIRITUALISM, will hold a SOIREE at the Carlton
Hall, Kilbum, next Monday, the 20th inst., when the first
quarterly meeting will be held and the Report read.
Tea will he served at 6.30, and all true friends of Spiri¬
tualism are cordially, invited to attend: ■
Tickets may be had of the Secretary; one shilling each,
at 5, Cambridge-road, The Junction, Kilburn, and early
application for the same is kindly requested. A. C.
Swinton, Hon. Seo.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OE En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library"is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
A SERIES OF POPULAR LECTURES,
by MRS. EMMA HARDINGE, in the METRO¬
POLITAN HALL (adjoining Gower-street Railway
Station), and LAWSON’S ROOMS, 145, Gower-street.
Wednesday, March 15, 1871, in Lawson’s Rooms,
“Music as an Educator” (by request). (With Vocal
and Instrumental Illustrations.) Chairman—William
Tebb, Esq.
Wednesday, March 22, 1871, in Lawson’s Rooms,
“ The Rank and File of Society.” Chairman—J. Baxter
Langley, Esq., LL.D., &c.
The Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely, each erening.
Doors open at 7.30.
Admission, 6d. Back Seats, 3d.
Subscribers may obtain Tickets at the Progressive
Library and Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton
Row, W.C.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons:
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer :
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C.
honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1.—To promote khe employment of . properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2.i—To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of'honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female praetitioners still attend the hulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might he distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi- ’
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselvesj,
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled!
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly, received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested-
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses’ ’
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed ^London and County Bank.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Road, N, or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comiquo), entitled 1 Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, ,'and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm-*
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells; and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
HEAYEN OPENED; or, MESSAGES
for the BEREAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. Burns, 15, Southamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.O.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Paternoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.O.
Where also may he obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Retail.
(ftmuents.
Mesmerism, Clairvoyance, and Spiritualism 145
The Evidence of the Reality of Apparitions ... 146
The Old Kent Manor House   .... 146-
Modem Spiritualism: Evidenceof Men of Science 147
Evidence of Literary and Professional Men to
the Facts of Modem Spiritualism  148
Mr. Towns’s Mediumship    ... ... 149
POETRY:—Spirit Poetry      ... 150
Correspondence :—Dreams—A Warning of Ap¬
proaching Death—A Long Trance—An Appari¬
tion—Spirit Identity—Clairaudience—Orthodoxy
—A Brief Interview.with the Devil, 150; Spiritual
Nomenclature, 150; Seeing Mediumship,' 150;
Alleged Conditions of Spirit Life, 150; The
Reliability of Spirit Messages, 150; M. Jacob,
the Healer ... ...  -151
Woman’s Rights„.    ... .... 161
Miss Kate Stokes’s Mediumship. Table Levitations—
Spirit Power—Spirit Voices   ... ... ... 151
PARAGRAPHS:—Spiritualism in England, 148 ^Liver¬
pool Psychological Society, 149; Mrs. Hardinge's
Lectures, 149; Spiritualism in Kilbum, 149; The
Anthropological Institute, 149; St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists ' ;'•••■; ••• '•••' 151
Answers to OORRESPONDENOE  V...,'iV. ...151
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwpod’s Bents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St.- Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
