AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 87.—(Voii. IV.—No. 17.) LONDON: APRIL 24j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
(Eontents.
Phases of Opinion among Spiritualists  ... 193
The National Association of Spiritualists     194
Mrs. Tappau’s Tour in the Provinces   ... ...     195
Lavater's Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia   196
Recognisable Spirit Faces  197
Private Seances—.Seance at Mr. Luxmore’s, Mrs. Jencksn’s Medium-
■ ship; Mrs. Bird'smediumship—Trance and Olairvoj ant Revelations 198
The Sunday Spiritual Services  ... 190
PoetryViolets on the Grave; Memory   200
Paragraphs:—The National Association Soiree, 197; Spiritualism in
Brighton     ...  '   200
Correspondence:—^Induction and Theory, 200; the Tappah Sunday
Services’ Committee, 201; Conditions influencing writing medium-
ship, 201; Christian Spiritualism, 202 ; The National Association 203
The Royal Institution    2C3
The Rev. Charles Voysey on Spiritualism   ... 204
Answers to Correspondents     204
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAL? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
And can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton, | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its' object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9 th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seyen o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, andia -■
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might1} j
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordt-
nary seancetKitd. on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special stances with professional media, lectures, discussicns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, atthe Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E —MR. THOS. EVERITT will deliver a LECTURE on
THURSDAY EVENING, 30th instant, at the ROOMS of the DALSTON
SPIRITUAL ASSOCIATION, subject: An answer to “What is the use of
Spiritualism ?” being extracts from a number of papers given by spirits by
direct writing upon various subjects.
MR. E. DAWSON ROGERS will LECTURE before the Association
upon “Mesmerism,”on the LAST THURSDAY EVENING in MAY.
MILTON HALL, CAMDEN TOWN,
HAWLEY-CRESCENT, KENTISH-TOWN ROAD, N.W.
A LECTURE will be given by
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 28,
The subject of the Lecture may be chosen by the audience.
The chair will be taken by
JAMES THORNTON HOSKINS, ESQ., M.A.
Doors open at Half-past Seven; Chair taken at Eight o’clock.
Admission—2s., Is., and 6d.
BTrKBECK^BANE:. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 24, 1874,
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The. Objects of this Association are:—■
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the fac|s, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given,
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Wx. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—'Kv. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in ^Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member,
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
HE following are the Speakers at Goswell Hall on
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May:—
April 19—Mr. R. Harper, “ Reasons for being a Spiritualist.”
„ 26—Miss Keeves.
May jUj- Mrs. Bullock.
17—Miss Keeves.
„ 24—Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
LWhit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
Dr. Sexton in the Chair.
R. Pearce.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
- roR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C, Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o'clock.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annutfl.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by dona/tion of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yrauswra1.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—U, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Mrs. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LEOTORES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17th of May, to be held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m., on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets of Admission, or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “ Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (JEts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBEBAli DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixtoti
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
VOiLUjVIE FOUR. jHUJVlBE^ pEVEJSfTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 24th, 1874.
Spmtalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oobrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions]:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties,'and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street,
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—'Mr. R. 0. Thornton. 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durnam, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
PHASES OF OPINION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Two broad phases of thought which do not coalesce
to any great extent, are discernible inside the spiritual
movement. Many persons inside the ranks of Spiri¬
tualism take an interest in the manifestations only,
caring little for the religious aspect of the subject, or
of the teachings which it may place before mankind
from the spirit world; these members of our body are
known to their other brethren as “ phenomenalists,” it
being a common remark, “ He is not a Spiritualist, he
is only a phenomenalist.” In some cases the charge is
just, for there are those who attend seances simply for
the sake of the excitement of witnessing something
wonderful, being attracted to them by the same motives
which would induce them to attend a conjuring exhibi¬
tion, and with no desire for the acquisition of know¬
ledge, either spiritual or philosophical.
At the other end of the beam of the scale stands the
enthusiastic Spiritualist, who cares little for the facts or
the phenomena, but is interested solely in what he as¬
sumes to be the teachings of Spiritualism, and the in¬
fluence those teachings will have in reforming what is
not good in society. There are some connected with
this phase of thought who are as open to adverse criti¬
cism as mere phenomenalists, and remarks about them
to this effect are frequently heard, “ Oh, they are en¬
thusiasts, and believe everything; they think that
everything uttered by trance mediums comes from
spirits, and do not allow for the colouring given to
the communications during their passage through the
organism of the medium to the outer world. They accept
all spirit messages as divine revelations, and are often
led by their credulity to worldly or mental ruin.,,
The lowest phenomenalist is evidently in a better
position in relation to Spiritualism than the enthusiast,
for if he does not accept much that is true, he at all
events does not, like his enthusiastic brother, swallow
a great deal of error.
Between these two phases of thought, both of which
have their uses, their merits, and their defects, it should
be the endeavour of all of us to keep an even mind.
Just as in astronomy or chemistry, so is the discovery
of truth in relation to Spiritualism; there must be a
great deal of preliminary plodding, unromantic, and
difficult work, in laying bare and classifying the indis¬
putable facts of the subject, before conclusions, either of
a religious or philosophical nature, can be drawn from
them with safety from error. To the enthusiastic
mind this useful steady work is highly repugnant,
although it by no means follows that those engaged in
its consummation are blind to the higher aspects of the
subject, or take less interest therein than their
brethren. While the French inside Paris were full of
passionate enthusiasm, vowing vengeance on the Ger¬
mans outside, making fiery speeches, marching about
with flags and music, and “ demonstrating ” generally,
the quiet Germans were hard at work digging their
194 THE SPIRITUALIST. Apbil 24, 1874.
trenches, perfecting their means of attack, and they
took the city.
When month by month, and year by year, this journal
approached Spiritualism, just as the philosophical world
now, in consequence of its past experience, invariably
approaches any new subject, by collecting a mass of
well-authenticated facts which in the end may be clas¬
sified and furnish data on which to found sound con¬
clusions, there were those who argued that the Spiri¬
tualist was a phenomenal journal. Sometimes the
inquiry was put, “ Why do you content yourself by
collecting and observing so many facts ? Why do you
not print more of the teachings ?” But what are the
teachings ? Are they to be found in the addresses of
trance mediums or the revelations made by clairvoyants ?
We have of late distinctly proved that the messages
through these do not come entirely from spirits, but
are influenced by the mind of the medium, and to so
great an extent in some cases as to be not only unre¬
liable, but the reverse of truth. Nevertheless, through
all these difficulties a certain proportion of teaching
has found its way from the spirit world, and of late
we have introduced a larger proportion of articles of
a religious nature into these pages. Excluding excep¬
tional examples, there is seldom any teaching in trance
addresses which has not been thought out with more
ability, and published in more beautiful language and
in more concentrated form, by persons in their normal
state. Most of the religious teachings of Spiritualism
have been included in the free-thinking works on
religious subjects published by Mr. Trubner, without
the writers knowing anything about Spiritualism itself,
but they have attained its leading religious ideas by
independently searching after truth freely and re¬
verently. One little book published by him, entitled,
The Religions of the World, is a very good example of
what has just been stated. Of course such writers
have not so much of the seal of authority upon their
utterances, as have the utterances of trance inspiration,
but our point is, that judged by their literary and
religious merits alone, that which may be obtained in
the normal way is not unfrequently of the higher
quality, and that the chief value of trance and other
messages consists in their coming partly from spirits,
so we must find out how to separate the spiritual from
the earthly part of the revelations.
The building of observatories, the planing and turn¬
ing of brass work, the grinding of lenses, necessary to
be done before beginning real astronomical research,
involve attention to prosaic details, held in light esteem,
perhaps, by the speculative mind, which would prefer to
draw all its opinions about the heavenly bodies from its
own inner consciousness rather than from the accurate
knowledge which flows from patient research. But the
difference, in the long run, of the results of the two
methods of acquiring knowledge is well expressed by
Mitchell, who argued that if one of the Shepherd Kings
who once watched the. starry orbs from the plains of
Shinar, were now to stand within a modern observa¬
tory, with all its magnificent appliances, and were to
be told of revolving suns and systems, of the distances
of the fixed stars, of the immensity of the visible
creation, of the countless worlds ever speeding through
the heavens, such news would fall upon him almost as
revelations from God. So will it be in Spiritualism;
there is much to be done before its revelations shall
stand before us in their full majesty and power.
That is not the highest order of mind which feeds
upon the speculative ideas in trance addresses, and upon
poetical language, with little power of criticising the
reliability of the teachings, or indeed, with no desire
to do so when the utterances harmonise with its own
preconceptions. In the legislature, in the scientific
world, in our universities, and wherever there is a great
concentration of responsible intellectual power, mere
beauty of language, although it is fully appreciated, is
never allowed to exercise practical influence; every¬
thing is brought to the prosaic test of facts, by which
means speculation is kept within legitimate bounds.
Savages and primitive people like to be taught by
poetry and song, so do children; if information has to
be driven into the heads of obtuse agricultural labourers,
the most efficient plan is to put it into verse, and sing
it to them.
Thus the position in Spiritualism of the phenome-
nalist is better than that of the enthusiast; however
limited and low in its order the knowledge of the
phenomenalist may be, it is sound and true as far as it
goes ; whilst those who patiently study the phenomena,
not because of an unhealthy taste for the wonderful,
but in order to learn the laws and principles governing
the communion between spirits and mortals, are en¬
gaged in the most valuable work it is possible to under¬
take in connection with Spiritualism, and instead of
being blind to the importance of the religious teachings
of the subject, may have a keener love for them, and
truer appreciation of their value than anybody else.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Last week one of the largest and by far the most in¬
fluential of the public social gatherings of Spiritualists
in London which has been held for many years, took place
in the shape of the soiree of the National Association,
and it was pleasing to see Spiritualists of every grade
and shade of opinion meeting together in harmony, for
the purpose of friendly united action in the future. As
a social meeting it was everything that could be desired.
In its business aspects little of importance was presented,
the Council not having yet matured any definite plan of
future action; consequently a few members of the As¬
sociation expressed their individual opinions as to the
work it ought to undertake at the outset, but the
governing body itself has not come to any decision upon
the point.
The first work of the National Association will pro¬
bably depend to a large extent upon its income, and
the growth of the income of a public body like this is
always a matter of time. Everybody feels that the
Association ought to have a local habitation as well as
a name, but assuming, for the sake of argument, that
the first year’s income would only pay the rent of the
premises and the salary of some responsible represen¬
tative to take charge of the building and attend to the
business, there would be nothing left for other pur¬
poses—a result which would be highly unsatisfactory
to the subscribers. There might be “ set offs ” to re¬
duce the balance of loss, such as the rent derived from
letting a portion of the building. A public hall belong¬
ing to Spiritualists is much wanted; and if the build¬
ing had a hall attached, part of the expenses might be
recovered by letting the same for public meetings. If a
club or reading room, accessible to members, where
they could meet each other at any time, were to be
opened upon the premises, it would be felt to be a great
boon, and might, perhaps, be self-supporting. It may
April 24, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST. 195
be said that this is assuming a very low income, but in
matters of this kind it is always safest to examine
them in their very worst aspect. Much, it will be seen,
depends for the sake of the honour and credit of the
movement upon the members of the Association being
liberal in their subscriptions ; if every member feels this
to be the case, it will make a very great difference in the
accumulated funds at the command of the managers.
The Council perhaps feels that it cannot bring for¬
ward any certain plan of future action until it knows
approximately what the income of the Association will
be, and thus much time will be lost. Could it not,
however, bring forward provisional plans ? Could it
not say, “ If you only guarantee us ^200 a year, we
will do so and so; if you guarantee £400 we will do
this; if you guarantee £600 we will do that.” Assum¬
ing for the sake of argument, only £200 to be
guaranteed, would the Council be justified in expending
it in taking premises ?
Experience has amply proved, as all provincial
Spiritual societies can testify, that the maximum re¬
sults for the good of Spiritualism are to be obtained
for the minimum of expenditure, by the establishment
of regular Sunday services. If the Association were
to say to West-end, Brixton, Dalston, Marylebone, and
Clerkenwell Spiritualists, “We will find you a hall
every Sunday if you will carry on the services and find
speakers,” the population of London would be regularly
worked upon from five different points; local Spiri¬
tualists would be brought more into contact with each
other, and the expenses would be small. Mr. R. Pearce
informs us that the Sunday meetings of the St. John’s
Association have of late cleared their own expenses,
though they probably will not do so during the summer
months.
Provincial Spiritualists will not object to the Asso¬
ciation first devoting its attention to London, for they
derive part of the benefit of what is going on here, in
consequence of the proceedings being so fully reported
in the newspapers. Moreover, they do not like to see
the disorganisation in the metropolis, caused by London
Spiritualists having hitherto had no opportunity of
meeting together, as in the provinces, for friendly,
united action, the most strenuous attempts to prevent
such harmony and to sow dissension having been made
for some years past, whereby the interests of the
movement have suffered severely. Plenty of harmony
and united action at headquarters will benefit the whole
country; so it would be well at first if the Council were
to confine most of its attention to London until everything
here works with the same smoothness as the organisa¬
tion at Liverpool.
Mr. Joy made a suggestion that the Association should
publish works and essays. This would be most expen¬
sive and unremunerative work, such as has hampered
the Anthropological Institute with nearly £1,000 worth
of debts, whereby its influence and scope of action have
been crippled for years. Moreover, whenever organised
bodies take to printing to any great extent, the members
at the same time usually take to quarrelling : the High
Church Episcopalian demands High Church publica¬
tions, the Low Churchman demands Low Church pub¬
lications. The Society for the Diffusion of Christian
Knowledge discovered by experience that its publishing
functions gave rise to many internal dissensions. Some
very angry meetings of the Photographic Society of
London have been held in times past over quarrels
about the contents of its official organ.
Could not the Association engage Mr. Gerald Massey
to deliver three or four lectures on “ Spiritualism in
America,” on his return to England ? The results would
probably be financially remunerative. At all events,
the losses would be slight.
The president of the Association has not yet been
elected; he may probably be somebody who will not
often be able to attend. According to the rules, one or
other of the vice-presidents who may be present, will
then be voted into the chair at each of the Council
meetings, and experience will soon show the member
who is most fitted for the work. Good chairmanship
is an art and science in itself, upon which books have
Been written ; the guiding of meetings of public or¬
ganised bodies at which financial matters and reports
of committees are brought up is difficult work, to be
successfully achieved only’after long experience, and is
altogether different in kind from the simple duties of a
chairman who merely presides over a public lecture.
The cutting short of irrelevant discussions the instant
they begin, the preventing speakers from addressing
the meeting on the same subject twice, the giving every
member of the Council an opportunity of expressing
his opinions, the putting of motions and amendments
in their due order, is not so easy as it looks, and even
the representatives of large and influential towns are
sometimes years before they settle down to the trans¬
action of their business in the most orderly manner,
resulting in the least waste of time. Some years ago
the Town Council of Swansea would get through twice
as much work as the Town Council of Cardiff in the
same time, simply from its good chairmanship and the
greater capacity for public work on the part of its
members, yet the management of the Cardiff Town
Council was by no means inefficient. Time will show
who among the members of the Council of the National
Association has the experience and capacity necessary
for this important work, which if properly done will
enable the Council to definitely settle several different
kinds of business in half an hour. Any member who
habitually speaks on every subject brought forward, or
who habitually speaks for more than five minutes at a
time, ought to be looked upon by his brethren as an
intolerable nuisance, delaying public work. "We have
never been to any of the Council meetings of the
National Association, and these critical remarks are
merely put forward in consequence of what we have
learnt, by observational experience, of the advantage
of conducting Council meetings in the strictest order;
it saves time, adds dignity to the proceedings, gives
greater weight to the speeches, and gradually trains the
members until they gain the capacity of moving with
credit in the higher and more responsible walks of
public life.
MRS. TAPPAN’S TOUR IN TCHE PROVINCES.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tapp an intends making a lecturing tour
in the North of England, and perhaps Scotland, after the
22nd of May next, and desires to make arrangements with
local societies and committees in advance. She is engaged to
speak in Bradford, Yorkshire, on the 5th and 7th May, return¬
ing then to London for the following Sunday’s lecture.
Letters for Mrs. Tappan should be addressed to her at
69, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Her
trance addresses are of a high order, and are sure to be
pleasing to Spiritualists and to the public.
Mr. L. Makdotjgall Gregory and Mrs. Ross Church
(Florence Marry at), have been elected members of the
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 24,1874.
LATATEB’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
letter yi {concluded).
Letter from a deceased person to his friend on Earth,
upon “ The Link that Exists betwem Spirits, and those
whom they have Loved upon Earth."
Mr well beloved, there exist imperishable links be¬
tween what you call the visible and invisible worlds,
and there is incessant communion between the inhabi¬
tants of earth and those of the spirit world who know
how to love; thus there is a continuous reciprocal and
beneficent action of these worlds one upon the other.
In meditating upon and analysing this idea with care,
you will recognise more and more its truth, necessity,
and holiness.
Do not forget, Oh, brother on earth! you live visibly
in a world that is for you as yet invisible. Do not
forget that in the world of loving spirits your friends
will rejoice over the increase of your pure and dis¬
interested affection. We are near you when you
believe us far away; never can a loving being be
isolated and alone. The light of love pierces the
darkness of the material world to enter into a less
material world.
Loving and luminous spirits are ever around affec¬
tionate and radiant natures. The words of Christ are
literally true: “Where two or three are gathered
together in my name there am I in the midst of them.”
It is also undoubtedly true that we can afflict the Spirit
of God by our selfishness, and rejoice the Spirit by our
true love in the deepest sense of these words : “ Yerily
I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall
be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on
earth shall be loosed in heaven.” You loosen by
egotism, and bind by charity; that is to say, by love.
Nothing is more clearly understood in heaven than the
love of those that love on earth; by love you approach
us, and you separate yourselves from us. Nothing is
more attractive to the happy spirits belonging to all
degrees of perfection than the affection of the children ;
of earth. You, that are still mortal, can by your
affection make heaven descend upon earth, and you can
enter joyously into a far more intimate communion with
us than you at present can conceive, if your souls are
opened to our influence by the spontaneous feelings of
the heart.
I am often near you, my beloved one ! I love to
find myself in the sphere of your light. Permit me to
address you still further in confidence. When you are
angry the light which radiates from you becomes
darkened; then I am forced to turn away and to with¬
draw from you, for no loving spirit can endure the
darkness of anger. Lately I was forced to leave you ;
you were lost to sight, so to speak, and I approached
another friend, for the radiance of his love attracted
me. He prayed, shedding tears for the members of
a family, fallen for the moment into the greatest
distress, and who he was at the time unable to
succour. Ob, how his earthly body appeared to
shine ! He seemed surrounded by a dazzling light; our
Lord approached him and a ray from His spirit essence
pierced this light. What happiness for me to be able
to plunge into this atmosphere, and strengthened by
this spiritual influence to be enabled to inspire Him
with the hope of speedy help! He seemed to me to
hear an inner voice saying to him, “ Fear nothing, be¬
lieve, and thou shalt taste the joy of being able to sooth
and aid those for whose welfare you have just prayed
to God.” The man arose filled with joy by this answer
to his prayer, and at the same instant I was attracted
towards another radiant being, also engaged in prayer.
It was that of a pure virgin who addressed the Lord,
saying, “ Oh, God, teach me to do good, according to
Thy will on earth.” I was able to influence her, and
I dared to inspire her with the following idea:—
“ Shall I not do well to send to the charitable man that
I know of, a little money that he may be enabled even
to-day to employ it for the benefit of some poor family.”
She received this idea with a childlike joy, she took it
to her heart as she would have welcomed an angel
from heaven. This pious and charitable woman then
gathered together a considerable sum, and sent it with
a touching letter to the address of him who had just
prayed for power to help the poor family, who arose from
his intercession for help with tears of joy and filled
with a profound sense of gratitude to God for having
so speedily answered his supplication, scarcely an hour
having elapsed between the prayer and the answer to
it. I followed the man, myself enjoying supreme de¬
light, and fully entering into his increased happiness.
He arrived at the house of the poor family. The pious
wife said to her husband, “ Will God have pity upon
us ?” “ Yes,” he replied, “ God will have compassion
upon us, even as we have had pity upon others.” On
hearing these words, he who brought the money was
filled with joy, and opening the door (almost suffocated
by emotion), he said, ff Yes, God will have compassion
upon you, even as you have had compassion upon the
poor, and here is a pledge of the mercy of the Lord.
God seeth the just, and heareth their supplications.”
All the actors in this touching scene shone with a
brilliant spiritual light, and when after having read the
letter, they raised their eyes and arms towards heaven,
masses of spirits hastened to approach from all parts.
How we rejoiced together, and embraced one another,
praising God and blessing all, becoming more perfect in
the holy atmosphere of love.
Again your light shone forth, and I was enabled to
approach you. You had done three actions that gave
me the power to draw near you and to rejoice with you.-
You had shed tears of shame for your fit of rage, and
being seriously grieved, you had reflected on the best
means of controlling your temper; you had sincerely
asked pardon from him you had offended, and^you were
seeking for some means to please him.
This brought back calmness to your heart, vivacity
to your eyes, and light to your body. You can judge
by this example if we are always well informed of
what the friends we have left upon earth are doing;
you can see how much interested we are in their moral
condition; you ought also now to comprehend the
links that bind the invisible to the visible world, and
understand that you can give us happiness or pain.
My well-beloved, you should ever bear in mind this
great truth, that a noble and pure love is itself its
greatest recompense, and that the joy of heaven is but
the result of a more exalted sentiment; you should,
therefore, hasten to purify yourself and to eschew all
selfishness. Henceforth I can never write to you
without referring to this subject. Nothing is of value
without love. Love alone possesses the clear-sighted
glance that sees justly, and penetratingly distinguishes
what is worthy of being studied, and that which is emi¬
nently true, divine, and imperishable. In each mortal
and immortal being, animated by a pure love, we see,
with an inexpressible happiness, God Himself reflected,
Apkil 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
even as you see the sunshine gleam in each pure drop of
water. All those who love on earth, even as in heaven,
are one in sentiment. It is on the degree of love that
the degree of our perfection, and of our interior and
exterior happiness depends. Your love regulates your
intercourse with the spirits who have left earth; it
governs your communion with them, and the influence
which they exercise over you; it establishes their
intimate connection with your spirit. In thus
writing to you, a sentiment of prevision which
never deceives me, tells me that at this moment
you are in a highly spiritual state of mind, because
you are contemplating an act of charity. Each of your
actions, of your thoughts, bears a particular stamp,
instantly felt and understood by all disincarnated
spirits.
May God be with you !
I have written you this the 16, xii. 1798.
Finis.
RECOGNISABLE SPIRIT FACES.
Reports of some seances at the residence of Mr. J. H.
Mott, Knoxville, U.S., extracted froin the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, were published in the last number
of The Spiritualist, and the following are quoted from
the same source:—
Dr. S. Stevens was present three evenings at Mr.
Mott’s seances. He will not attempt to relate the half
of the startling phenomena which he witnessed there.
On the first evening the spiritual presence of James
H. McCall was announced. Mr. McCall was a distin¬
guished citizen of Canton, Fulton County, Illinois, who
died last July or August. My acquaintance with Mr.
McCall had been very pleasant and interesting for several
years, and I responded to his call, but could neither see
nor hear anything satisfactory, and returned to my
seat, from which I was soon called by the same invisible
intelligence. As I approached the door of the cabinet,
my attention was attracted to a small ball or cloud of
vapour near the door of the cabinet, and from this
apparently illuminated ball of vapour was evolved the
face and features of Mr. J. H. McCall. His face was
a peculiarly impressive one. It would be difficult to
mistake it for any other face. Then a hand and arm
were instantly presented within ten inches of my face.
There was about eight inches of an arm attached to the
hand, and the arm was naked. The hand opened and
closed before my eyes, then the hand passed up to my
head, pressed and patted my head, then passed down
over my face and patted my hand which was resting on
the door of the cabinet. The hand then passed the
fingers to the lips of the spirit and then extended them
towards me in the form of a salutation. The vision or
apparition slowly faded from my view. I think that
nearly all the persons in the room saw the vision of
the hand.
On Monday evening, after many interesting manifes¬
tations, an invisible intelligence said : “ My father-in-
law is present, and I wish to see him.” The name of
the invisible was inquired for, and it replied : “ Nathan
Goodell,” which was the name of my son-in-law, who
passed to spirit life in the year 1865. I passed up to
the door of the cabinet, when I saw the appearance of
the same slightly illuminated ball of vapour from which
in a few seconds was evolved the face and form of Nathan
Goodell, looking as natural and life-like as I ever saw
him in life. A smile of recognition illuminated his
countenance, -a hand was slowly raised towards his
face, and he bowed towards me, and as I returned the
same salutation, our faces nearly met. A living intelli¬
gence animated the face, and I felt thatl was in the living
spirit presence of my absent son. A hand was raised to
his lips, and then extended towards me, which act was
repeated five times, and then the words, “Thank the God
of Nature, this is true,” came from the form in an
audible whisper,^which expression was repeated twice
and then the spirit form slowly faded out, as I was
earnestly looking upon it, as were the Disciples upon
their Divine Master when he had given them His
last earthly benediction, “ and was parted from them
and carried up into Heaven.” I was amazed; it
seemed as if the grave were giving up its dead.
Lord Lindsay'' will send out a special expedition to
observe the transit of Venus.
We are pleased to state that information has reached
us that Mrs. and Miss Showers intend returning to London
in a few weeks’ time.
Lad±es and gentlemen who have not yet paid for their
tickets for the National Association soiree are requested to
forward Post-office Orders to Miss Emily Kislingbury, of
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., payable at the Notting-
hill office, Archer-street.
On Saturday last “ The Sterndale Bennett Scholarship”
of the “Royal Academy of Music” was, after two day’s
competition, awarded to the youngest of all the candidates,
Master Charles Templeman Speer. His musical friends in
the spheres would appear not to have deserted him upon
this important occasion.
The Banner of Light, of March 28 th last, says:—
1 The Earl of Dpnraven, late Lord Adare, who acted as cor¬
respondent for the London Telegraph from Versailles, during
the Prussian occupation, and likewise served during the
Abyssinian war as an army correspondent, has been spending
some months in hunting excursions, and in travelling through
the United States. He returns shortly to England.”
The National Association Soiree.—The decorations
of the Cleveland Hall for this soiree were made with much
good taste. The platform, which was erected specially for the
occasion, was covered with carpets, lent by a lady from her
private apartments. The front was draped with bright Turkey
red cloth, festooned with garlands of ivy, which were fastened
with bunches of daffodils, gathered a few days before in
Somersetshire meadows. At each corner was an arrangement
of palms, with flowering and sweet-scented plants of the
choicest kinds, whose beauty and fragrance were the crown¬
ing charm of the decorations. The balcony overhead was
used as a trellis for the freshest ivy, trailers of which hung
drooping over the drapery of the crimson and white cur¬
tains, which, suspended from the balcony, formed the back¬
ground of the platform. Above these hung the banner of the
Association, with the monogram “ B.N.A.S.” in gold letters
on a blue velvet ground. At the opposite end of the Hall,
the musicians’ gallery was ornamented in a corresponding
manner with ivy, and with the illuminated motto of the Asso¬
ciation, “ He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it
is folly and shame unto him.” The music, performed at in¬
tervals during the evening, was of the first quality, and
formed an agreeable relief to the continued speech-making.
A gentleman from Bristol kindly responded to an impromptu
invitation to perform, and delighted the company by his mas¬
terly execution on the pianoforte. The Misses Withall gave
the overture to “ Masaniello” in faultless style, and the same
may be said of the flute-playing of Mr. W. Edmiston. The
rich full tones of Miss Claxton’s voice, and the sweetness and
expression with which Mr. Myers sang Sullivan’s beautiful
“ Once again,” left nothing to be desired but that the even¬
ing’s programme had admitted of the same excellent singers
being again called upon to delight the audience. It is to be
hoped that they have not been heard for the last time in a
Spiritualistic assembly. Mrs. and Miss Kislingbury, Mrs.
Everitt, and Mr. E. T. Bennett were at work for many hours
in carefully decorating the Hall, and all who were present; pan
bear witness to the elegance of the results,
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 24, 1874.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
SEANCE AT ME. LTTXMOOKE’s—MRS. JENCKEN’S MEDIEMSHIP.
Last Saturday evening there was a seance at the
town residence of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-
square, Hyde-park, W.; Mrs. H. D. Jencken (Kate
Fox) and Mrs Cora L. V. Tappan were present; also
Mr. H. D. Jencken, of Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,
E.C.; Mr. W. H. Harrison, of Wilmin Villa, Chaucer-
road, Herne-hill, S.E., and several ladies and gentle¬
men whose names we have no permission to publish.
In the course of the evening, the first portions of the
names of two of the departed relatives of a lady and
gentleman present were spelt out, to their great sur¬
prise, as they thought that the message was intended
for somebody else present; the message was given by
raps. The raps through Mrs. Jencken’s mediumship
were at one part of the evening so powerful, that it
sounded as if the drawing-room door were being
beaten with a mallet.
At dinner time a gentleman of high intellectual ca¬
pacity, said that he felt as if an icy cold living form
were standing between himself and Mrs. Jencken.
During the seance afterwards in the drawing-room up¬
stairs, he again sat next to Mrs. Jencken, and was soon
deeply entranced. In this state he was made by the
spirits to utter a few words in solemn tones, and some
peculiarly heavy raps or thuds were heard near him.
After being entranced for half an hour he woke up
considerably surprised to discover that he could be in¬
fluenced at all at a spirit circle.
MRS. BIRD’S MEDTEMSHIP.—TRANCE AND CLAIRVOYANT
REVELATIONS.
The following messages were given a few days ago
at a private circle, through the mediumship of Mrs.
Bird, of 11, Park-grove, Shepherds’-lane, Brixton, and
taken down in shorthand by Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Death had visited the house, and the funeral was to
take place on the morrow. The communicating spirit
said:—
That clay affects me, although I have left it; although I
have fully and completely disentangled myself from it, it
affects me again to-night; it prevents me from clearly express¬
ing myself through another. It has stood in my ..way to¬
night, and I would thank you to remove it before I try to com¬
municate again. I have left it altogether, yet I had to
stumble over it in order to get here to-night. For three days
it gave me pleasure, but now it is in my way. I cannot
speak much, but I will stay with you a little, and you have
not heard the last of me yet.
I hope not. I hope not.
I can only come step by step, and just one step more. This
physical element impedes me ; there is no fear of its waking
up again, but I cannot control the medium without feeling it.
It roill he no harrier after to-morrow.
J. is here. A complete and full vision of my release shall
be given to you; I shall find the right time to give it you injfull.
It cost me a great effort to get near this medium last Sunday
night; the first information that the circle was sitting was
given me by strangers, and not understanding it made it more
difficult for me to communicate. Oh, I shall have so much to
say. I am guided to-night just as a child’s hand is guided
with its pencil, to say this much, but I shall improve. I
must learn my letters first. Take hold of M.’s hand, and then
bring your hand back. Now join hands all round.
That is it—that is it 1 It strengthens me. I know who are
in the circle now, and I did not know before. The influence
is pleasant and grateful to me.
Tell M. that I cannot take her hand, because it would break
this feeble control—not that she is weak, but only in this par¬
ticular sphere. I feel as if I should ascend, and I cannot
balance myself. I shall not attempt to give messages to-night,
but I shall give them first to the medium, and perhaps tell
you by-and-bye. I showed her what I wanted her to say, but
she said that it was like a long letter which she could not
read, and so it was withdrawn to-night. I know it is best as
it is, but I have two homes yet, one here, and the other above,
and I feel that it is kind of you to sit for me.
No, not so !
I am pleased with all you have done, and while the last
remains of the connection between the spirit and the body
lasted, I moved within a circle without fully freeing myself,
and all your arrangements were grateful to me; but now
I have freed myself. Join hands again. The medium will
now have a vision. I will not go far, but seat myself on the
old sofa ; I am coming very often to tell you how real it is.
Here there was a long pause, after which Mrs, Bird said: —
I see a water-lily—such a beauty 1 There has been a
shower upon it; there is either a fountain close by, or there
has been a shower of rain. Such beautiful crystal drops ! My
throat is dry and my mouth is parched. Although I have not
tasted this water, I feel that it cools me, so I will sit here and
look at it. Something has excited me very much, and I am
faint. How refreshing it is to sit here and look at the beauti¬
ful green leaves and pure white flower. Ah 1 there is some
one laughing at me behind one of the leaves. She says that
I cannot be thirsty, and that it is all nonsense ; but I am
thirsty, and I am faint. “ So was I,” she says, “ a few days
ago, and perhaps I have communicated it to you in some
measure.” Oh, it is Mrs. ; I thought that it was a sofa
early in the evening, but it is a water-lily now ; there is no
sofa, she is sitting by a beautiful piece of water playing with
the water-lily leaves. It is warm ; there is no cold wind, but
a soft warm 
It seems as if I have taken a long journey. I must rest a
little.
Another influence here controlled Mrs. Bird.
I want to speak to you. Can’t you help me, some of you ?
If I could materialise myself I would have a cap made; I feel
as if I want to throw my cap up ; I cannot give expression to
the joy I feel at finding that I can be here whenever I like. I
dare say you will account me selfish, but now I will try and
talk sensibly. I am J. ; I cannot speak through the medium
as mother has urged me to do to-night; I want somebody I
can be jolly through to give expression to my feelings. I will
not attempt messages to-night; you will not get much to¬
night ; we are excited, and the medium has not her usual
guides. We are controlling her instead, and doing the best
we can. Break up for a short time, and then we can arrange
ourselves so that she-can see us.
At this point the seance was discontinued for half an hour,
after which Mrs. Bird went into the clairvoyant state, and
said:—
I shall see presently when I get the dust out of my eyes.
It is a large room; I will not try to measure it—it is very
spacious. I cannot describe the furniture ; there is a soft and
beautiful carpet, and opposite me is a lady at an open window,
with her head turned as though she were musing, looking far
away, and it is as though the evening sun fell upon her. She’s
thinking. She is sitting upon a chair ; I can see a portion
of the back, which is like ivory ; falling from her shoulders,
drooping about her feet, is a beautiful . I have ‘seen
that before. I do not know what to call it; it is silvery;
it is something that has been wrapped about her; it
has fallen from her now, and she will soon need it no longer ;
it is not a shroud, it is more like a white garment. I
can see her shoulders as well as her head. How beau¬
tiful that light is that is falling upon her. There is a pencil
in her hand; it looks like a piece of coral, pale red, and there
is paper. 8he has evidently been writing. I am trying to
find out what she is looking at. She has not looked at me,
but keeps gazing far away, and every now and then she turns
and writes something on the paper, something that she sees or
hears ; I wish I could see what she is looking at. I’ll try. It
is very difficult to get nearer to her. There 1 I know now !
She is the inhabitant of another sphere, and she is looking
into ours; she has been looking into it for the last hour.
What has she been writing about ? I’ll speak to her. It is
Mrs. , and she says that she has been watching what
you have been doing during the last few days, and that
is why she is sitting alone, because it was only by separating
herself from those in her sphere, and taking up the position
she_shows me to-night, she could know what you did and what
you thought, and keep up the connection between herself and
you. And here she writes and makes notes, putting down
messages while she looks at you ; she will treasure them up
till she can find an opportunity of giving them to you. She
will go on separating herself, and fixing herself in this - —
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
April 24, 1874.
Somebody calls me. I must wait. There, she has thrown
off that white robe, and she is looking for somebody. Oh, it
is J , and she shows him what she has been writing.
They have been talking together, and she holds up to me a
little strip of paper on which she has written something. I
will read it presently. Oh, she says she’ll watch all the pro¬
ceedings at the funeral to-morrow. I wish I could get nearer
to her. This room seems so large, and we are so far off; I can¬
not get clearly to understand what she would convey to me.
It is very strange that she has attempted to give these two
visions of herself and failed. What is the reason? That
room is filled, grouped about
I cannot get into the room ; I can only take all this in in
little bits. I don’t think I can get anybody here to help me ;
though I see her, I have no power to describe all; everything
is heavenly. I am losing it. You must not feel disappointed ;
the room is there, but something fails ; either I failed, or the
spirit trying to show it; I don’t know which. It is elevated,
I can’t get up to it; I never ‘got into the interior of that
room, and I am outside now. I cannot tell you what sphere
she is in, but I shall do so. I shall tell you some day what the
white tinselled, robe means; I cannot think why she has
shown it to me so many times. I am going to wake up, unless
it comes freely and correctly ; I had better not make mistakes.
I feel that this room is a long distance from me, and that she is
attempting to show me the sphere in which she rests ; I can¬
not reach it to-night. She separates herself from her spirit
friends above, in order that she may be en rapport with her
friends on earth, and see and record. She can see her
friends interiorly by sitting thus alone, and she will find a
happy moment to communicate before long, when I am clear
and can understand.
There has been a strange—totally strange—influence to
me in the room—a male spirit, who has exhausted me so-
that I feel quite faint. I think if he could have found an
opportunity, he would have tried to say something, and it has
worried me. It is not a disagreeable influence, but depress¬
ing, and makes me feel as though I could cry ; at first,
I thought it was the circle. I shall get rid of it presently.
I thought you were all weeping. I do not think he comes to
disturb ; I am inclined to think that he is somebody who
knows our family, not yours, that we shall hear again from
him, and that he has lately passed away. His influence is icy
cold, and very depressing. Make a few passes over my eyes,
Mr. —— ; I cannot get my eyes open.
THE SUNDAY SPIRITUAL SERYICES.
LAST Sunday evening Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered an
inspirational address at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street,
Portland-road, under the presidency of Mr. J. Ivimy. There
was a large attendance.
A hymn was sung, and Mr. Ivimy read a chapter from the
Bible, after which—
Mrs. Tappan went into the trance state, and uttered the fol¬
lowing inspirational prayer :—Our Father, who art in heaven,
Thou Spirit of Light and of Love, Thou perfect and beautiful
soul, to whom all spirits turn with thanks and praise, Thou
that from the past to the future eternity art the same, to whom
time, and death, and space, and all things of the senses are as
nought, but who dost live for ever in the perfect abode of
thought, transcendent and supreme, encompassing all and
comprehending all, we praise Thee! The spirit that is like
unto Thee would praise and bless Thee. We would know of
the spiritual world and judge of its vast and comprehensive
beauties. We know that the firmament is spread out before
the gaze of man, filled with the splendour of those laws
wherewith Thou dost govern matter; we know that the stars
roll on in their orbits in obedience to law, but the spiritual
universe—that vast vale beyond the pale of matter—of that
Thy children know nothing. 0 let us gaze with the eye of
the spirit, let us turn to the understanding of the thought
world of the soul. Let us penetrate to that vast kingdom
where every deed and word becomes a thing of beauty. We
praise Thee for those glimpses of that realm of light which
have been revealed to Thy children ; we praise Thee that even
now with other senses than those of matter, we can perceive
the presence of Thy soul vibrating even within our hearts.
Thou dost fill every atom of this enchanted room, and bear
us up on wings of aspiration and prayer, to that region wherein
the angels perform their deeds of loving kindness, and sing for
ever praises in the melodies of the summer land. We would
build up on earth an expression of the temple of Thy spiritual
kingdom.
Mrs. Tappan, still in the trance state, said that in one of the
Spiritual newspapers some questions had been asked as to the
manner and nature of Spiritual life. There was a variety of
opinions upon these points, even among Spiritualists. When
spirits say that the next world is tangible to them, investi¬
gators therefore sometimes erroneously concluded that they
meant that it was material; but materiality and tangibility
were two very different things, for things might be tangible
to the spirit which were not within the ordinary range of the
human senses, and which were not subject to material laws.
Some men of science think that they can judge of the nature
of the spirit world by the aid of the laws which govern
matter, and expect to find the same trees, rocks, and water
there. Is the spirit scenery the counterpart of the scenery of
earth? No man of science could analyse the substance of
which thought was composed, yet thought was palpable to the
spirit; spirits could perceive the quality of the thoughts of men
just as clearly as men could see their own garments. Thought
was one of the most tangible of spiritual substances. There
was something in spiritual existence which for spiritual pur¬
poses corresponded to flowers, trees, birds, landscapes, and
valleys, and these existed not only in the atmosphere of the
earth, but in the space beyond. Upon earth the scenery was
outside the spectator, but in the next world this condition of
things was reversed, and that which was objective to man,
offered no impediment to the approach or departure of
spiritual beings; the hall in which she was speaking was to
spirits no more than so much vapour, while the thoughts of
the listeners were to the spirits tangible realities. The spirit
was surrounded by just such scenery in spirit life as the
quality of his thoughts could create and draw around him,
and vast numbers of spirits upon the same plane of thought
and affection associated together. Chemical affinity was one
of the laws of matter, and by analogous laws in spiritual life,
spirits were draped, and clothed, and surrounded by external
conditions in obedience to their thoughts ; thus, the geography
of the spirit world was not fixed like that of earth. Lofty
souls could so govern spiritual conditions as to make vast
pictures and plains, temples and valleys, mountains and living
things in response to their desire. It was said that in ancient
times the spirit of God descended in the form of a dove, and
at spirit circles seers often beheld flowers, birds, and symbols
of various kinds. Were these realities? They were not
earthly realities, but they were spiritual realities. If a spirit
desires to present a flower to another, it can do it at once
simply by the power of thought. All these things were
governed by law, but not by the laws which govern matter.
Although spirits materialised themselves, that was no proof
that they possessed gross forms ; they were obliged to express
themselves through earthly forms, because that was thq only
way they could reach the senses of mortals, but the spirit world
itself was one in which thought presided—where thoughts and
intelligence took visible form. Languages were employed by
spirits in conversation with mortals, but there was no necessity
for the use of feeble words or written messages between
spirits, the thought itself passing from the one mind to the
other. It had been said that the spiritual form resembled the
human form, but the functions of the spirit form were
spiritual, and expressed the highest form of thought that the
spirit had attained, wherefore all forms of disembodied beings
were represented as being more beautiful than they were
upon earth. If there was no necessity for the organs of
voice, hearing, and so on, why did the spirit possess the pro¬
totype of the human form ? Every organ and feature of the
human body represented also a spiritual power; the sense of
the soul of man was but one, but the expressions of that
sense were many ; therefore when a man loses his sight,
his sense of touch becomes more acute, and so
on. As in spirit life and in clairvoyance, there was
the power of reading thought, why should spirits
adopt a slower method, and one which rendered their
meaning more imperfectly ? Where, also, was the necessity
for earthly forms of nourishment? Did the spirit hunger
and thirst ? Yes, but its food was spiritual and not material.
She had no hope that her utterances on these points would
be understood by the materialistic order of mind, but they
would be understood and appreciated by those who had
studied spiritual things. The food of the spirit was thought,
and it obtained it by volition. Its garments also were simi¬
larly composed of the spiritual life about it, and were of high
quality in proportion to its purity and its knowledge. If they
would consider the growth of the lilies of the field, it would
be noticed that they developed from within ; the germs
unfolded impalpably to the senses of man, then the leaves
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 24, 1874.
appeared, and all the time the rays of the san had been
silently obeying the summons of the power at work within the
germ of the flower. Transcendantly above this was the soul of
man. Men did not inherit their spiritual habitations; no
large tracts of land were awaiting them there in obedience to
the laws of primogeniture; they would have nothing there
that they had not themselves created ; it was only by the cul¬
ture of the highest and noblest attributes that man could
imagine what the power and the purposes of spiritual
existence might be.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered the following inspirational
poem:—
From the sowing of the seed,
To the bursting of the shoot,
And the beautiful rare flower
That receiveth from the root,
The warmth and strength of life,
One pain must be endured,
One pang must pierce the seed,
And separate its life
From the life that is indeed,
For the seed must surely die.
From the bursting of the bud,
To the opening of the flower,
One pung must pierce the shield,
One subtle potent power
Must burst the bud in twain,
And divide it, ere again,
The life of the fair flower
Shall its highest wealth attain,
The bud must surely die.
And from the fullblown flower,
To the ripening of the fruit,
When the golden balance holds
All its life from stem and root,
From branch and bud, and flower—
Behold another dower—Death has given
One pain must pierce the flower,—
Through and through its head be riven,
’Ere the golden fruit can come
For which all its hopes have striven,
For the flower must surely die.
From the bursting of the chain
That binds your thought to God,
Whereby you seek again
The path your souls have trod,
One subtle shaft must come,
One pang and pain of death,
To show your highest home,
Even while you here have breath.
When man is born—he dies,
The earth encases him,
And the soul that is of God,
All that is ever Him
Must be burst and rent in twain
By the subtle shaft of Death,
Ere home he comes again,
Ere he breathes the spirits’ breath—
When man is born he dies;
When man is dead, he is born.
Spiritualism ih Brighton—The discussion on Spiri¬
tualism is still going on in the Brighton Daily Bern, in
which journal a long series of letters on the subject by Mr.
J. Thornton Hoskins is in course of publication. An anony¬
mous writer in the Brighton Daily News of last Monday
says :—“ My wife had suffered for many months very grievous
pain, arising from rheumatic neuralgia, the consequence of
dislocation of the shoulder; marked alleviation of the pain
was obtained by rather large doses of the sedative liquor of
opium, and though this was effectual and no evil consequences
ensued, it was always adopted with reluctance, and not taken
if sleep supervened without it, This was the condition of
things on the night of October 26th, last year; when wide
awake, with great pain, and contemplating the taking of the
laudanum, she felt a hand placed in the middle of her back,
and another hand mesmerising the shoulder and arm. This
continued for some minutes ; the pain ceased; and she has
not had any return of it since that time. We afterwards
found, through mediumistic writing, that the beneficent effect
was produced by my old friend Dr. Elliotson, who also gave,
through the writing, some valuable advice. These are facts,
and, with twenty-one years’ experience in the pursuit of the
truth of Spiritualism, I could give many other instances of the
benefits to be derived from the investigation. With facts
like these, to be proved by any one for himself who enters
sincerely into the search for the truth of the matter, it is
simply a waste of time to discuss hypothetical notions as to
the cause of a table moving. Facts are the only real ground
on which to construct a theory. A wise man has said—‘ He
that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and
shame unto him.’ ”
3|oetrg.
VIOLETS ON THE GRAVE.
“ Violets 1 She has loved them on earth best,
Violets that grow on the cool mossy bank;
Behold where the sweet flowers of heaven rest,
She has gathered them there fre^h and dank,
Over there by the river of life.’’
MEMORY.
The following verses about St. Bride’s Bay, written by the editor of the
Spiritmlist, were originally printed in the. Cambria Daily Leader, which
at that time was the only paper published in Wales:—
Lost in thought, oft I wander to scenes that are fading,
To scenes where bright hope and high thoughts were entwined,
And often in silence fond memory lingers
O’er moments with bright recollections enshrined.
When all joyous I gazed on the haven’s bright waters,
As sunset bedecked them with glories untold, ‘
When the cave and the headland, the cloud and the billow,
Seemed robed in a mantle of crimson and gold.—
When on Druidstone sands in frolicsome gladness,
We chased the short hours in that glorious light,
Till the glare from the far Bishop’s Lighthouse was streaming,
And the pale stars above told the march of the night.—
When the moon shed her beams on the slumbering waters,
Which in purity mirrored her image beneath;
When faintly the lights in the far hamlets glimmered,
And the winds murmured low o’er the brushwood and heath.—
When the surge of the waves by the caverns re-echoed,
Emitted a moan all weird-like and high,
As the incoming waters in ripples were breaking,
Or streamed o’er the rocks with a sorrowful sigh.
Dear to me ever, ye wild scenes of beauty,
For life with its changes was happier then,
Away from the clamour and care of the city,
The clang of the hammer and bustle of men.
arorrespontience.
{Ortat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
INDUCTION AND THEORY.
If these statements startle, it is because master has been deified and
maligned by philosophers and theologians, who were equally unaware that
it is at bottom essentially mystical and transcendental.—Tyndadl.
Sir,—To assume something to account for something else
Mr. Serjeant Cox well knows to have been the unscientific
proceeding of all time. Facts may suggest a theory, and if
that theory be verified by facts, you are all right. But, to
assume the world to be a- vast loadstone in its interior, to
account for gravitation, is not science, any more than to
assume a soul to account for vitality. The presence of the
spirits of the dead may demonstrate the necessary existence
of the living soul, but the assumption of a soul cannot be
allowed to account for the appearances supposed to be spirits,
or the performances of spirits : we must interpret facts, and
not anticipate reasons. Mr. Cox’s assumption is not in
accordance with received scientific ideas, founded on observa¬
tion and the interrelations of the physical man, and I say
that, independently of the facts oE Spiritualism, Mr. Cox has
no more conclusive reasons for believing in a human soul, as
a separate being—like a bird in a cage, for instance, or as
the man moving the puppets in Punch—than for a similar
soul in his cat; and many philosophers, to be consistent,
have furnished the brutes with souls. The pious and benevo¬
lent Bonnet even promised them immortality.
Now, I think that my letter in the Spiritualist of this day
may be taken in anticipation, as a reply to Mr. Cox, showing
that I have no disposition to lay down the law, but am bent
on investigating facts, let them lead where they may. And
what is the haste ? 1 have no anxiety about reconciling my
views with the new facts, but only to learn what is true.
When I wrote my letters to Miss Martineau, and my pre¬
vious essays in The Zoist, the phenomena of Spiritualism had
not arrived, but 1 referred to all those correlated matters
then known, as being the real and fundamental element of a
true science of man and mind, and I never opposed the new
phenomena, as Dr. Eliotson and the late Mr. Jackson, of
Human Nature, did in The Zoist, even to giving drawings to
illustrate how the tables were moved.
I am convinced that the facts under the term Spiritualism,
with their correlations, put us at last on the true path—pav¬
ing the way to a true science of man and mind, and of course
in answer to the question of “ What am I ?” mesmerism
and its collateral facts have heralded the way, as Spiritualists,
April 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
as well as others, are now seeing. I wish to interpret and not
to anticipate, and after the method and advice of a great
lawyer too, one well versed in the proceedings of the courts
of law, even Francis, Lord Bacon, and who cautioned us
against theories as emphatically as Newton did afterwards.
Mr. Cox askes me to reconcile my scientific convictions with
the new facts, but will it not be enough to assure him that I
am trying to do so, or rather to learn what is the truth ? Had
he read my published letters with attention, he would have
perceived that I was always at least as much a Spiritualist as
Materialist, and, like Bacon, attributing all power and all
action to spirit and a spiritual medium. But matter and
spirit are but different conditions of a fundamental substance
—“ Conjure with them, the name of Brutus will start a spirit
as soon as Cmsar.”
For all the loose talk of many, the only real question then
is as regards spirits, or the return of the dead “ from that
bourne from which,” we are told, “ no traveller returns.” But
people are so prone to settle things off-hand with this theory
or with that, according to old habit of thought, or first ap¬
pearances, or as they may desire the fact to be. Psychic
force is but another word for vital energy, and does not help
us in the least; and we cannot attend to notions unexplained
about a psychic and a new force, to account for these deeply
important phenomena, on which, without applying it in the
least to Mr. Cox, “ E’ools rush in were angels fear to tread
but the Spiritualists have the facts in their hands, and are
masters of the position.
Being abroad, I had not seen Serjeant Cox’s book, but no
doubt it is “full of wise saws and modern instances;” in
other words, deeply interesting as a handbook to the matter in
question. But as Mr. Cox wishes me to be explicit, I will
frankly acknowledge that at first I did think that I could
explain the phenomena in accordance with the conclusion
that I had come to in relation to my discovery of phreno-
mesmerism ; and in regard to the motion of .objects, I think
so still; but the progress of the phenomena makes me pause,
and I ponder and hesitate, and consider that we are forced to
accept paradoxes and at first seeming impossibilities. As, for
instance, who can say how the physical action of light goes
clean through seemingly solid glass, or how a million of lines
of light pass, and in opposite directions, in the same point,
without interference; or how, in fact, of a hundred other
matters we any of us might name, of accepted and familiar
truths, not yet explained, and seeming impossibilities, us
quite inconceivable by the human intellect.
Boulogne, Henry G-. Atkinson.
THE TAPPAN SUNDAY SERVICES’ COMMITTEE.
Sir,—Last Sunday week, being in the chair at Cleveland
Hall, as a member of the above committee (though my name
has not hitherto been published in connection therewith, for
certain private reasons), I thought it due to the supporters of
the present course of lectures, and to the public, as well as to
the cause of truth generally, to make certain statements,
which I prefaced by observing that I had “ reduced them to
writing, in order to hand them to the reporters present, so that
there may be no possible mistake hereafter as to what I have
said."
The utterly incorrect version which has appeared elsewhere
of this simple preface, which I had not reduced to writing,
shows how necessary my precaution was.
The written statement was as follows :—
“ An article has been published lately reflecting on the
dealings of this committee.
VI am authorised to inform you that the more important
statements in that article are as incorrect, as the reasoning in
it is unsound.
“ This is clearly neither the time nor the place to enter
fully into details, but I may perhaps be allowed to allude
briefly to one or two points.
“We started this course of lectures because we were in¬
formed that the manager of the previous course did not intend
to continue, and that consequently Mrs. Tappan was dis¬
engaged.
“ We made no conditions with the said manager, nor had
any dealings whatever with him, beyond giving him certain
work to do, for which we paid him.
“ We are therefore no more responsible for the debts or
losses consequent on his mismanagement, or ill fortune, than
we should have been entitled to claim his surplus if ho had
realised one.
“ On the other hand, we were bound to consult our sub¬
scribers as to the disposal of the funds with which they had
entrusted us. We did so with reference to our surplus, and
all but two (out of thirty) protested against our using it to pay
the alleged loss of the manager of the previous course of
lectures.
“The author of the article alluded to suppressed a letter
from one of the committee, which would have helped to put
matters in a truer light. This letter he characterises as ‘ de¬
famatory,’ because he was told in it that if our subscribers
approved of our making him a present of any surplus we
might realise, we should require to see his vouchers. I can
assure you that there was nothing more defamatory in it, for
I wrote it, and gave my true name and address, though the
person in question thought fit to call the letter anonymous.”
Algernon Joy.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W., April 20,1874.
CONDITIONS INFLUENCING WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—May I be permitted, for the information of your cor¬
respondent “ Mentor,” to say that I have satisfied myself,
beyond all question, that it is not necessary that the medium
should know anything of the subject about to be communi¬
cated, nor is it necessary that he should know even the rudi¬
ments of the language in which the message is given. Further,
I am of opinion that it is not necessary that the controlling
spirit should have been able either to read or write, prior to its
departure for “ the higher life.”
My reasons for holding this opinion are that the spirit of my
child, who died on her seventh birthday, and whose identity
has been fully established, has influenced adults (in and out of
the trance), as well as her little brother, five and a half years
old, to write messages to us of a childlike and affectionate
character, she herself being, from an affliction, unable, at the
time of her death, either to read or write, while her brother
has only just learned his alphabet, and can spell words of two
or three letters at most.
Throughout the communications given by each of the
mediums there is the same independent internal evidence of
truth and identity, one great peculiarity being that all letters
formed with a “ bowl ” and an up or down stroke, are written
from left to right, or, as we should say, backwards.
During the time my little boy writes, he talks to us freely
of the thousand and one things that a child only could
think of. Cbedenti.
Sir,—There are two kinds of writing mediumship—impres-
sional and automatic. In the former the medium is conscious
of each word as it is being written; in the latter he is not
conscious of it. In impressional writing the spirit operating
has only an imperfect control over the muscles of the hand.
He imparts to the medium the idea he wishes to convey, and
the medium’s hand more or less accurately expresses it in
writing. It is true the medium is conscious of the words as
he writes them ; but he feels an impetus given to his hand not
his own, and occasionally writes the first letters of words
before he is conscious of the words themselves. The mind of
the impressional writing medium, during writing, is rather
active than passive ; not that he is consciously framing sen¬
tences, or straining for ideas, but is excited through influx of
ideas. The automatic writing medium, on the contrary, is
altogether passive, so far as relates to the subject matter
given through his hand. It would appear, in the case of the
latter, that the controlling spirit can guide his hand as he
pleases, without imparting to him the ideas he wishes to
express. Automatic mediumship is related rather to the
physical than to the mental manifestations ; and the impres¬
sional to the mental rather than to the physical.
The more a medium developes impressional writing, the
further he gets from automatic mediumship. The converse
of this, however, does not necessarily hold good, for the more
we exercise mediumship of any kind the more impressionable
we become to spirit influence. The better test medium is the
automatic writer, for through him the spirit can express him¬
self in his own words, whilst the impressional medium obtains
only general ide&a. Thus, through the latter, “ sun," in the
mind of the spirit, might be written “ light," "black" “ dark¬
ness," and so forth; but through the former the words sun
and black themselves could be written.
Through the automatic medium alone are spirits likely to
give tests of names, unless the medium be familiar with
the words desired to be written. For instance, the proper
names White, Black, Miller, Blackman, and all others having
corresponding general ideas and,' already existing in the
mental repertory of the impressional medium, might be
202
THE SPIRITUALIST.
more or less correctly written through him. There would
always, however, exist the possibility of the idea Blackman
being rendered nigger, sweep, &c.; Baker—some particular
baker, as Brown or Buzzard, the medium’s baker, and so on.
With an impressional writer the efforts of a spirit are con¬
fined to the mental stock-in-trade of the medium. If there
be not the type to set up any particular idea, then the nearest
approach to it which the material at disposal will furnish must
be resorted to. And, moreover, the spirit’s work is at any
moment liable to be destroyed by the medium himself calling
into consciousness any word or idea at variance with that set
up, or about to be set up, by the spirit.
It thus appears that impressional writing mediums are more
likely to give descriptions, the matter of conversations and
the like, as tests, than anything more precise or singular. By
writing mediums is meant here those only who feel their hands
moved to write, not those who wait for impressions, and
having found them, consciously and of their own will, make a
note thereof.
The question remains, How may impressional writers acquire
automatic mediumship ? The answer is, by refusing to write
by impression; by sitting regularly alone; by getting the
mind into as passive a state as possible, being quite indif¬
ferent as to the matter about to be written. Inasmuch as the
success of a spirit’s attempt to write what he wishes, depends
upon his power of guiding [the medium’s hand whitherso¬
ever he pleases, and inasmuch as the hand is more easily
moved to produce some letters than others (fof instance 0 than
K), it follows that a spirit before he can converse freely through
a writing medium must be able to write by his handl all the
letters of the alphabet with equal facility. The first step then
for an individual to take who is desirous of cultivating auto¬
matic writing should be to encourage .the spirits to practise
the alphabet through him, writing the letters forwards and
backwards. The process of development in most persons
must be so tedious that, apart from the difficulty for the
medium of having the patience to sit time after time without
obtaining any intelligible messages, the operating spirit, un¬
less conscious that his instrument is determined to persist in
his development as an automatic writer, could scarcely be
blamed for growing tired of the task of mastering the ABC,
when by resorting to the impressional method of communica¬
tions he would probably hold a pleasant conversation, accurate
enough for ordinary purposes, with his friends in the flesh.
For that reason'then that development in mediumship is often¬
times a slow and laborious process. Spirits require great en¬
couragement at the hands of would-be mediums to undertake
of two methods of communion the more difficult one.
  D. H. W.
CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—It is not without regret that I observe the division
which at present exists amongst Spiritualists from the differ¬
ence of their views in regard to Christianity—some doubting
the very existence of Christ, some holding absolutely to His
divine mission and mediumship, if not to the actual divinity
of His person. I think I should be doing service to the cause
of Spiritualism by endeavouring to show that we ought to
view the Christian religion, like all other religions, as a
mystery, and that it ought to stand or fall by its merits or
demerits. I will not take up useless space in your paper by
doing more than advert to the contradictions between the
statements contained in the Book of Genesis and the laws of
nature as demonstrated by modern science, for they must be
known to all intelligent Spiritualists; as well as the discre¬
pancies between the two genealogies of Christ as given by
St. Matthew and St. Luke, and referred to by St. Paul in the
words “ follies and endless genealogiesmeaning fictitious
pedigrees of which, without doubt, many were invented to
prove Christ to be the descendant of King David, though only
two have come down to us. I scarcely need point out the
inharmonious statements to be found in the accounts of the
resurrection of Christ as recorded by the four Evangelists,
which, differing as they do from each other, though they
form the foundation pf all Christian hope, would be rejected
as evidence in any court of justice by an honest judge and an
intelligent jury.
The Jewish objection to the Messiahship of Christ must
also be known to most of your readers—their expectation
that a man would be sent to them by divine appointment, and
not an incarnate God, as St. John represents Christ to have
been. But one of the strongest objections to believing the
Bible to be the inspired Word of God the Creator, is founded
on the consideration of the meaning of the word “ God ” in
various parts of the Old Testament Scriptures, in which its
April 24, 1874.
sense is clearly that of such a spiritual organisation as we
now call a Church, in its two divisions of visible and invi¬
sible. I cannot here quote in detail all the texts relating to
this subject, but can merely refer to them, giving one only as
a specimen—“ For all people will walk, every one, in the
name of his God, and we will walk in the name of our God
for ever and ever.” (Micah iv. 5.) See also Exodus viii. 11 ;
Jeremiah ii. 11; Judges x. 6 ; Joshua xxiv. ; Isaiah xxvi. 13;
2 Kings v. 17, 18 ; and Deuteronomy xxxii. 7,12, and 17.
St. Paul, who must have been acquainted with these passages
in the Old Testament, uses the word “ God” in the same sense
in .his First Epistle to the Corinthians : “ For though there
be that are called Gods, whether in heaven or on earth (as
there be gods many and lords many), but to us there is but
one God,” &c.
. As it would be quite unreasonable, after duly weighing and
considering all these different objections, to regard the
Scriptures as inspired, I contend, then, that we have nothing
left but to confess that the Christian religion must be a
mystery. Volney conjectures, in a note to his book called
The Ruins, that the Gospels were pious romances, founded on
the mysteries of Mithra, which constituted part of the worship
of the ancient Medes and Persians. Most of the ancient
nations seem to have had their mysteries :—those called the
Eleusinian, which prevailed amongst the Greeks, and were
afterwards adopted by the Romans, are the most generally
known from the accounts given of them by ancient authors.
Though we do not meet with the word “ mystery” in the four
Gospels, St. Paul uses it repeatedly in his Epistles in regard
to Christianity. He directs Timothy, as a bishop, to hold
the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience ; and in Ephe¬
sians he prays that utterance may be given to him that he
may open his mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the
Gospel.
The resurrection of the dead is, as St. Paul describes it to
be, a mystery. ” It is sown in corruption ; it is raised in in¬
corruption : it is sown in dishonour ; it is raised in glory: it
is sown in weakness; it is raised in power: it is sown a
natural body ; it is raised a spiritual body. The first man is
of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven.”
There is a passage corresponding to a certain extent with the
above in the Book of Psalms, which also evidently relates to
a mystery. “ Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall your
wings be as silver wings, and your feathers like gold.” Christ
declares that the Pharisees, the sect of the Jews to which St.
Paul belonged, were full of “ dead men’s bones and all un¬
cleanness,” yet this uncleanness is probably the same as
what ij called corruption in the account of the resurrection.
It would be weakness of mind, indeed, to consider the
operations referred to above to be anything but mysterious.
The Established Church in one of her collects uses these words
—‘ ‘ We, the stewards of these Thy mysteries ;” thus showing
that her views are similar to mine. Lastly, there is a passage
in St. John’s Gospel which it is impossible to understand
literally, and which also must be understood mysteriously:
“Jesus answered and said unto him, if a man love Me he will
keep My words, and My Father will love him, and We will
come unto him and malce Our abode with him.'’ We cannot
imagine the two principal divisions of God neglecting the
affairs of the universe and taking up their abode with Chris¬
tians, leaving the third part at home to keep house in heaven ;
but most Spiritualists, I dare say, know very well, as I do
myself, what it is to have the spiritual world in constant inter¬
course with them, and they will say that the invisible Christian
Church must be what is here meant. This interpretation har¬
monises with what has been said before in regard to the word
God, for as we have seen that it does not mean the Almighty
Father, there can be no divine Son.
In regard to religion, therefore, people of all denominations
should endeavour to ascertain, as far as possible, the advan¬
tages and disadvantages of that to which they determine finally
(if indeed circumstances allow them to have a power of choice)
to adhere. Let us now consider a little the peculiar charac¬
teristics of Christianity. It is declared by St. Paul to be a
religion of liberty. It freed its followers from the burdens
and restraints of the Jewish ceremonial law, for Christ, he
says (Colossians ii. 14), “blotted out the handwriting of
ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and
took it out of the way, nailing it to His cross.” “ Let no man,
therefore, judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of a
holy day, or of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days,” &c.
This was no inconsiderable relief ; but it also conferred upon
those who were duly initiated, a peculiar liberty which enabled
the spirit to leave the body at pleasure in the manner de-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
April 24, 1874.
scribed by Christ in St. John’s Gospel. This peculiar privilege
and advantage, if we may rely upon St. Luke, would have
been given them in infancy if brought up in the Christian
Church (Luke i. 2 ; and ii. 40). St. Paul says: “ Now he
that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, Who also
hath given us the earnest of the spirit. Therefore we are
always confident, knowing that whilst we are at home in the
body we are absent from the Lord : we are confident, I say,
and willing rather to be absent from the body, and be present
with the Lord” (2nd Corinthians v. 5, 6, and 8 ; also Colos-
sians ii., 5). This earnest of the spirit I conceive, according
to the ordinary meaning of the word earnest, to mean the
assurance of spiritual life after death, which spiritual freedom
during life would give. St. Paul, in his Epistle to the
Galatians, contrasts the two dispensations, or, as he calls
them, covenants, saying, “ The one from Mount Sinai gen-
dereth bondage, and answereth to the Jerusalem which now
is, and is in bondage with her children; but the Jerusalem
which is above is free, which is the mother of us all. So,
then, brethren, we are not the children of the bondwoman,
but af the free. For, brethren, ye have been called unto
liberty, only use not liberty as an occasion to the flesh.’’ St.
Peter says, “ As free, and not using your liberty as a cloak for
maliciousness, but as the servants of God.” It seems that
this spiritual liberty was obnoxious to the Jews, for he speaks
in Galatians ii., of false brethren unawares brought into the
church, “ who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we
have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage.
To whom we gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour,
that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.” And
he gives this command to his disciples : ” Stand fast, there¬
fore, in the liberty wherewith Christ has made us free, and be
not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.”
Certainly it would appear from First Epistle to Timothy,
vi., that the early Christians shared with each other some
great spiritual advantage, which levelled social distinctions,
and bound all classes together in a brotherhood of love,
having for its chief object mutual assistance and support.
We read as follows : “ And servants that have believing
masters, let them not despise them because they are
brethren, but rather do them service because they
are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit?
What could this benefit have been if not spiritual
liberty. The following texts refer, I suppose, to this “ benefit:”
—“ He that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man “ Godliness with contentment is great
gain P “ Godliness is profitable unto all things, giving us the
promise of the world which is, as well as of that which is to
come.” But in another passage he says, “ Great is the mystery
of godliness.” Alas ! all is mystery.
Modern Spiritualism, unfortunately, has not proved the
above statements to be true, nor shown them to be untrue;
but if we are to trust to St. Paul’s declarations it would be
absurd to call ourselves Christian Spiritualists if we live in
spiritual bondage, if we have not the earnest of the spirit, and
if we do not partake of the rights and privileges that the
Christian religion has the power of bestowing. People of all
religious denominations might unite for the secure enjoyment
of ascertained religious advantages, and refuse to make any
sacrifice, pecuniary or otherwise, unless they received pro¬
portionate compensation. On such a foundation all Spiri¬
tualists could agree. T, E. P.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—I have hitherto declined all invitations to join the
British National Association of Spiritualists, for reasons
which seemed to me conclusive. I did not think the time
had arrived for the organisation of a truly national associa¬
tion on a sound basis. I thought that indispensable con¬
ditions of success were still wanting ; also that no organi¬
sation was entitled to proclaim .itself national which was not
truly representative, and conducted by representative men,
whose names would carry weight, and be recognised by the
public as their national leaders. I also was influenced by the
arguments brought forward by my valued friend, Mr. Howitt,
and his friends, against any organisation in the matter of
Spiritualism. Not feeling the need of it myself, I thought I
could carry on my own work independently of any organisa¬
tion. I failed to perceive or consider its utility to my neigh¬
bours. I believed that if an organisation was desired by the
spirit world, they would be sure to bring it about in due
time, and that no aid of mine was required in the work. But
I am now bound openly to confess that my objections have at
length been shaken by the representations which have been
made to me, and by the arguments with which Mr. Howitt’s
position have been attacked. I begin to perceive that the
advantages of organisation may be considerable to those who
are less independent than myself. I can scarcely avoid seeing
that the plans and purposes of the Association are regarded
with favour by the invisible world, and inasmuch as I have
long desired to do all that lies in my power to further the cause
of Spiritualism, and to disseminate the blessed knowledge of
its glorious truths among the many who still are unen¬
lightened, I feel that I cannot longer withhold my name and
what little influence I may be able to exercise, from an Asso¬
ciation which, however humble in its origin, aspires to be an
instrument of usefulness, and which I trust will yet be
strengthened to do a good work by the aid of God’s ministering
angels.
I send you this earliest intimation of my adhesion to the
Association, with permission to make what use of it you may
deem proper. Lisbtte Makdougall Gregoby.
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.,
April 18th, 1874.
Sir,—From your report of the speeches made at the soiree
of the National Association, I find you overheard the caution
of the venerable chairman to be ” very brief ” in speaking
of the resources of the Association, and have faithfully acted
upon it. Yon have done right. In a report of a gathering
held for the social converse only, the less said about money
requirements the better, or it might be thought that the object
of the meeting was to secure the attendance of as many
wealthy Spiritualists as could be induced to respond to the in¬
vitation, and then to ask them for money. And a more
weighty reason is that, as far as I am aware, every speaker
spoke on Thursday evening upon his own authority, for the
Council has not yet, to my knowledge, formulated any pro¬
gramme of action.
I may, however, now be permitted to say, through The
Spiritualist, what I wished on Thursday last to press home to
all, viz., that it does not appear to me possible for the Associa¬
tion to carry out effectively even the primary purpose for
which it was established—which is to make known by every
available means those facts now daily presenting themselves,
which give sensuous demonstration of immortality—unless
those members who can afford to do so, give more than the
5s. membership subscription. If, therefore, the monied
friends who were present on Thursday have confidence in the
executive of the Association, they will enable them to carry
out the work of the Association efficiently, by sending such
donations as they can spare to the treasurer or secretary.
April 21,1874. C. W. Pearce.
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
Professor W. Rutherford, M.l)., delivered the second
of his course of six lectures on “ The Nervous System,” at the
Royal Institution, Albemarle-street, on Tuesday last, and illus¬
trated his remarks with several experiments on the living
nerves of frogs. Chloroform had been administered to the
frogs, so that they felt no pain.
Dr. Rutherford said that the positive pole of a galvanic
battery lowered the excitability of a nerve, whilst the nega¬
tive pole increased it, and he proved this by experiment,
although not without difficulty ; in reference to these difficul¬
ties he remarked that variable conditions were incidental to
physiological experiments, it being always impossible to know
beforehand the precise condition of any animal tissue, for
which reason neither physiology nor medicine could ever
become an exact science. He then proceeded to explain the
nature of the action of various drugs upon the nervous system,
and stated that hemlock, the poison with which Socrates was
killed, lowered the excitability of the terminations of the
nerves, where the nerves came into contact with the muscles
and other organs, so that they then lost the power of stimu¬
lating those organs to action. Why hemlock should act
thus upon the ends of the nerves was not known. Bella¬
donna had a like power of paralysing the ends of the
nerves; there was one nerve through which impulses
were continuously sent down from the medulla oblon¬
gata to check or rein in the action of the heart,
consequently, when the lower end of this nerve was
paralysed by belladonna, violent action of the heart was
set up. Nicotine, the active principle of tobacco, would pro¬
duce palpitation of the heart in the same way. Calabar bean
had exactly the reverse action; it would check the action of
the heart; belladonna and Calabar bean could be used to
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 24, 1874.
neutralise the action of each other. Strychnia acted upon the
spinal cord, and its tendency was to produce tetanus. Chloral
is now much used to give sleep to nervous persons; chloral
and chloroform suspend the excitability of a portion of the
brain, sleep being the result. Deficient nutrition increases
nervous excitability, and then loud sounds, bright lights, or
pain, have a disagreeably strong influence over the sufferer.
Nervous people are annoyed by slight things, they are gene¬
rally irritable, and not very steady, and nobody knows exactly
what they will do next. The velocity of the motion of nerve
force was very slow, not faster than a bird could fly or a stone
could be thrown, and its speed varied somewhat with varying
conditions ; at low temperature its speed was very much
diminished. Electricity passed with different velocities
through different conducting wires; in one experiment its
speed was 87,500 miles per second, hence it was infinitely
more rapid in its motion than nervous energy. .Electricity
would pass freely along a frozen nerve through which nerve
energy would not pass at all, and this he believed to be abso¬
lute proof that nerve force was not electricity; the nerve was
not killed by being frozen, for it would recover its vitality
afterwards.
Pkofessoe J. R. Seeley, M. A., is delivering some lectures at
the Royal Institution, on “The Age of the French Revo¬
lution.” He gave the first of them last Saturday, and dealt
with the argument that Buonaparte was a blessing to Europe,
and promoted freedom, because since his advent, Parlia¬
mentary and free institutions have flourished over the Con¬
tinent, to an extent which they never did before. Charlemagne
propagated Christianity by the sword, even as Omar propa¬
gated Islamism, why then should not Buonaparte be credited
in the same way with propagating freedom ? But Charle¬
magne was a Christian, and Omar was a Mohammedan,
whereas Napoleon was a bloodthirsty tyrant, who hated
freedom. The nations of Europe saw that their princes
could not stand against Napoleon, so lost confidence in them,
and went out to fight him themselves, the result being that
their rulers were of necessity forced to enlarge their political
liberties. Thus it was the “ Anti-Napoleonic revolution of
Europe m which promoted the freedom of the nations. It
would be time enough to begin to deify Napoleon, when
they began to worship the cholera, because of the sanitary
reforms brought about by their resistance to the scourge.
THE REV. CHARLES VOYSEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
On Sunday, April 12, at St. George’s-hall, Langham-place,
the Rev. C. Voysey took his text from Psalm xxxix. 8, “ Now
Lord, what is my hope. Truly, my hope is even in Thee.”
In the course of his remarks he said:—Perhaps I need
scarcely say that I am one of those who do not believe that a
future life has ever yet been demonstrated. Hitherto, as far
as I am persuaded, we have had no voice from the tomb, no
resurrections, no angels or spirits to tell us a single word as to
the state of the departed. But I wish to draw a line here and
admit that, so far as I know, it is possible that the future life may
yet be demonstrated. It would be arrogance indeed to affirm
the contrary, or to put any limits to man’s capacity of know¬
ledge. All I now say is that, in my opinion—and I may be
wrong—the instances of alleged communication with the
spirits of the dead have not been satisfactorily proved.
I cast no slur upon the good sense or good faith of the
many friends who assure me of the facts of Spiritualistic
phenomena—^phenomena which I do not even question—but
I am not satisfied with the explanation given of them. We
require, I think, a great amount of evidence of a different kind
to that usually offered before we can accept the phenomena as
demonstrations of the life beyond the grave.
The contempt which is too often exhibited towards those
who believe in Spiritualism I entirely forswear. It is deplor¬
able—even to those who disbelieve in it—that men of science,
with few exceptions, refuse to investigate it—to expose the
fallacies of it, if it be fallacious; and to account for the phe¬
nomena, if they can be accounted for, by natural agencies.
Mere unbelief and contemptuous refusal to notice it will not
do much to eradicate it if it be a superstition; whereas, if it
be true, the men of science ought to be the first to discover its
truthfulness, and to bear their testimony to the world. Will
it be believed that there is in London, at this moment, a
medium who presented, in a West-end drawing-room, as the
spirit of a deceased person, one “Florence Maple,” who
“ stepped out ” from some cabinet, and suffered a party of
ladies and gentlemen to feel and shake her by the hand, she
freely conyersing with them, sitting down in a vacant chair,
and allowing herself to be measured in order to prove that she
was not the medium disguised ? She then gathers the auto¬
graphs of the company, and disappears. Will it be believed
that all this is said to have occurred in this very city, a few
weeks ago, and no more notice is taken of it than if it were a
matter of daily occurrence ? Now, we cannot use half-
terms in speaking of this alleged fact. If-it really occurred
—if a person who was once dead has been seen alive, and
in costume, moreover, of manufactured material, and handled
and heard to speak by a room full of ladies and gentlemen,
and then as suddenly has disappeared—then it is unpardon¬
able to show apathy upon a subject of such supreme import¬
ance to mankind. But if it really did not occur, it must have
been a monstrous and wicked fraud, practised by, or upon, the
parties who say they witnessed it. Such a fraud is a scandal
to our country and to the enlightened.age in which we live. It
deserves our deepest execration; yet no one seems to care to
settle so momentous a question, or even to clear the character
of their neighbours by some attempt at investigation.
I say nothing here of much that is repulsive in the so-called
revelations of Spiritualism, and which only lead me to hope
most earnestly that it may not be true. I have only alluded
to it at all because it is necessary—absolutely necessary—to our
purpose this morning, to shew on what grounds we rest our
hopes of immortality. Spiritualists appeal to a vast portion
of mankind, who prefer seeing to believing, who are ever
hankering after signs and wonders, and whose materialistic
notions of God, and soul, and heaven compel them to seek
satisfaction in visible proofs. We come into the field with
very different weapons. “ The weapons of our warfare are
not carnal.” And if we cannot hold our ground with these,
we refuse to adopt an inferior mode of warfare, or pander to
what seems to us a morbid craving for hidden mysteries.—
Eastern Post.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS. <
M. T.—The matter, as you put it, is too frivolous for publication
but of considerable interest if you speak seriously, and if it can
be authenticated.
P.—Hillesley: Nobody has ever paid a farthing for the insertion
of anything in the literary portion of this journal, which is
carried on in the public interests of Spiritualism, independently
of commercial considerations. Your experience elsewhere is no
precedent for us.
G. T. T.—We have no leisure to search out the article or the book
you mention.
_4® | AAA REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
THOMAS S. NEWMAN, late of the U. S. America,
Inspirational Lecturer; also Heals by the Laying on of Hands (no
medicines given). Patients treated at his rooms, or he will attend them at
their residences. Terms: 10s. single visit at his rooms, or 15s. at their own
residence, if within the parish; ifoutof the parish £1 with travelling expenses.
Will also accept engagements io lecture on Wednesday evenings, or Sunday
afternoons and evenings, in London, either in public or private. Terms
moderate. Office hours from 7\ a.m. to 9 p.m. The poor considered. All
communications must be addressed, nntil further notice, to Dr. T. S.
Newman, 3, Torrington-street, W.O.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL'LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenhorgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by O. H. Jeens—I, Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. Ill, Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IY. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80, .
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
April 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can he consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman.-sq.uare, London, W.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. G.
SCOREY,
Medical Mesmerist and
A.TJL Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds'-bush,
W. Please write.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April Ith, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’'—London Review, Feb. \5tli, 1868.
“ The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—•
Speculator March ith, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
OR Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
Lately published,
"HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
■ The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
81. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Her odd.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ? ''—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E,, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russbll-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, modi all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERYER OF BIRDS AND
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 100, Suf¬
folk street, Birmingham.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in' a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust ,• she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Aye Maria Lane, London, E.C.
Just published,
THE SECOND YOLUME OF “ WHAT AM I P”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. OfthelntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History,
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tybrman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 24, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq,, C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles. Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,'
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be. invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“ George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:— ,
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’  ■  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
INQUIRERS into Spiritualism should, begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtamed.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failmgs of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED. ?
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Read 0#ce«.-BR0WN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
" Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, ■without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Socie y, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by pei’mission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that EnglishmenRre not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Newspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 41, Bernard-strdet,
Russell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Mam-lane London) E.C.
