AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[EEGISTEEED FOE TBANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 121.—(Vol. Y.—No. 25.) LONDON: DECEMBER 18, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(Eontents.
Are the Alleged Two “ Katie Kings ’’One and the Same ? By the Hon.
Bobert Dale Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of
Naples     289
The Identity of the Two “Katie Kings.’’ Bythe Editor ...   291
Spiritualism in the Oxford Union    292
The Spiritual Disturbances in Cookstown  _... 293
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
Co-operation with Allied Societies—New Members—Gold Medals for
Prize Essays on Spiritualism—Finance—Public Circles—Periodical
Soirees—The Education of the Children of Spiritualists  294
The Mediumship of Miss Showers ......   .295
“ Man Trans-Corporeal: The Substance rather than the Shadow of
the Material Man” ...   295
Public Circles. By Benjamin Coleman ...   ... ...297
Spiritual Phenomena in Birmingham      ...   298
Correspondence:—Ennesfallen’s Mediumship—Second Sight in the
Isle of Skye—Differences    299
Lecture by Mrs. Jackson ... —  _ ..._ ... ... ... 300
Paragraphs :—Spiritualism in Marylebone, 393; Spiritualism in Dar¬
lington, 300; Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship ...    300
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 <f- 26 Viet., cap. 89)
42, POULTEY (OOENEE OF OLD JEWEY), LONDON.
SIMPliB FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
If preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. C. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es i B B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Bayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.B.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.B.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Bobert Lucas Nash, Esq., Hi" W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiifin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.B.S.
CLASS.
aw
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PEEMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
Two Yss
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
I 10 0
1 0 0
£ s.d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s.d.
3 0 0
I 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.’’ Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
1B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 2 0
13 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
ME. THOMAS BLYTOJN,
12, St. Philip's-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOYEB PLACE, PABK BOAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
THE EAST LONDON SPIRITUALISTS QUARTERLY
TEA MEETING, will take place", on Sunday, the 20th inst., at Mr.
Oogman s, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End. Tea at five o’clock. Tickets one
shilling each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or, not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT TEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
MRS. J. W. JACKSON
WILL deUver a SERIES OF THREE LECTURES, at
the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square. W., on Wednesday the 9th December, Wednesday 16th
December, and Wednesday 23rd December, on the respective subjects of
WIT AND HUMOUR, SYMPATHY, AND THE INSPIRA¬
TION OP MEN OP GENIUS.
Tickets of Admission to the course, £1 Is. 0d., to be obtained at 21
Green-street, previous to the commencement of the lectures.
Each Lecture to commence at Three o’clock.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. COEA L. Y. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into course^ of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH BOOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Eegent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr. ,
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq, and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Son. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admin one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12-'. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office houss from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS EAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOQICAL SOCIETY.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
Office-Bearers foe 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bnssell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr, Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Ulr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. B. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Biece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OP ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIKITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions:—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary at the Booms as above.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
in each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866.. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGHESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction by J. M. Gcli.y, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillikre & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRA Y,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in’the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.,
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Tirms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars.' Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
THE DAY OF PENTECOST AND ITS PHENOMENA.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
THE HONE YMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
- NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., p p. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRIST ENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d. *
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Pirectioris of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. B
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo„ pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
m w o weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
_fL and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—jSee Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and previous truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
President.—Mr. R, Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society |may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
PSYCHOPATHY or, THE TRUE HEALING ART.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Harylebone-ioad, London
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter L—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these. -
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm—
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Hervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure, of Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Forei—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psyohial
Instrument—Tne Philosophy of Hand-Shaking,
Chapter IV,—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over ihe Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact-
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J.Burns, 15, Southampton-row,W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with.Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publicatior
Established 184
eJAj
ejMs
n| ilp rogrm oI[ % attit JHIjitp oI[ ^pajitnafkm.
VOJiUJVIE FIVE. P'dJJVlBEI^ TWENTY-FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18th, 1874.
^pnttralxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of.orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual Sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
77ie Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
J^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice pf Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
ARE THE ALLEGED TWO “KATIE KINGS” ONE
AND THE SAME ?
BY THE HON. ROBERT DALE OWEN, FORMERLY AMERICAN
MINISTER AT THE COURT OF NAPLES.
La Place, in his Theorie des Probabilites (Introd.
p. 1), has this assertion :—“ It may be said, speaking
in strictness, that almost all our knowledge consists of
possibilities only.” Taking the word possible in its
popular sense, this may seem extravagant; yet it is
certain that outside of pure mathematics, and of
axiomatic or intuitive truth, a vast proportion of all
we know comes to us in the shape of probabilities.
Aside from phenomenal proof, the belief of mankind
in a life beyond the grave has never existed except as
a probability; and some able men refuse to it even
that character. At this day, with all the experimental
evidence which the last quarter of a century has
brought to light, thoughtful Spiritualists are fain to
admit that, as to the identity of spirits, we ought to
speak with great caution.
The reality of spirit materialisation has, I think, been
conclusively proved, both on your side of the Atlantic
and on this; but the question whether the same spirit
which lent herself to Mr. Crookes’ experiments has
also been aiding ours, is, as in a previous paper I
have admitted, less positively settled. Though it is a
side issue only, it has excited much interest here,
calling forth many editorial comments, and forming
the Staple of a thirteen-page article entitled “ Was it
Katie King ?” just issued in the December pumber of
the (New York) Galaxy, one of our popular magazines.
In your issue of October 9th, which has just reached
me, you express, guardedly, however, the opinion that
the spirit we have seen and conversed with here is not
the same as that which appeared through Florence
Cook. Permit me, in reply, a few words bearing on
this question.
First. I find no evidence for the oft-repeated asser¬
tion that Katie, during her farewell sittings in London,
declared that, in leaving London and Miss Cook, on
May 21st, she was leaving the earth not to return;
seeing that neither Mr.- Crookes nor Mrs. Ross-Church,
nor my friend Mr. Coleman, in their elaborate accounts
of her farewell (nor ^ny one else, so far as I have seen),
report any words of Katie which, fairly construed,
imply this. Mr. Coleman {Spiritualist, May 18th) gives
us only a few words of hers relative .to a photograph
and the colour of her hair. Mrs. Ross-Church’s letter
{Spiritualist, June 5th) does not contain a word from
Katie herself. Mr. Crookes (Spiritualist, June 5 th)
furnishes only these expressions:—“ Mr. Crookes has
done very well throughout, and I leave Florrie with the
greatest confidence in his handswith other sentences
to the same efiect: then, as the last words he heard
Katie say to Florence Cook, who had entreated her to
stay longer, “ My dear, I can’t; my work is done. ' God
bless you.”
It is true that in an editorial {Spiritualist, May 20th)
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
you say, iu a general way, that Katie “ said she would
never be able to speak or show her face againbut
no words of hers are adduced in proof of this. The
expression, “ My work is done,” may be so construed;
but against such a possible construction I have Katie’s
express words. On June 27th she said to me, “ Some
of my English friends misinterpreted my parting words.
I took final leave, not of your earth, but of dear Elorrie
Cook, because my continuance with her would have
injured her health.” And this was volunteered; not
said in reply to any question, or to any suggestion of
mine.
If it be alleged that she may not have told me the
truth, I reply that I have the same confidence in the
sincerity of the spirit with whom I conversed daily for
six weeks, as Mr. Crookes writes me that he had in
the Katie who appeared to him, I have spoken to
her at least a hundred times; and to me she never
evinced petulance, or triviality, or evasion, or any
qualities except those which appertain to a cultivated
young woman, as estimable as she was kind and amiable.
As in Mr. Crookes, so in me she evinced entire con¬
fidence.
It appears, especially from the article in the Galaxy,
which is confined to a report of the May sittings (before
I arrived), that she did then, from time to time (catching
the tone from those who addressed her) exhibit a sort
of hoydenish petulance, during which she not only
jestingly abused Dr. Child and the mediums, but also
Mr. Crookes, “ with his wires and strings and things.”
You may possibly be right in your conjecture that the
sauciness of her allusions to his tests was due, at the
moment, to an antagonistic feeling in the mediums.
But it seems to me that it is better explained by Katie
herself, when, the morning before I arrived in Phila¬
delphia, she said (through Dr. Child as medium), “The
way in which I sometimes appear and speak, when ma¬
terialised, is not a true exponent of my present condition
adding the confession that she often used expressions
which were “quite repulsive to her inner consciousness.”
And it would seem that, thereafter, she did, in a mea¬
sure, outgrow the failings she confessed. It is certain
that, in my hearing (and I was present day after day),
she never, on a single occasion, said a disrespectful or
disparaging word in regard to Mr. Crookes or any of
her London friends, or touching the manner in which
either she or Miss Cook had been treated by them.
I quote from the communication through Dr. Child
only, because it bears, to my mind, internal evidence of
being a genuine transcript of Katie’s feelings and
opinions. In that very document she has given us
words of warning. “ Every'spiritual communication ”
(she reminds us) “ that has ever been given, has been
more or less modified by the channel through which it
has passed.,” This is precisely in accordance with my
own experience. And I bear this great truth in mind
when I read that Katie is alleged to have declared,
through Mrs. Conant’s mediumship, that people were
using up Miss Cook’s vitality; and to have asserted,
through Miss Cook’s mediumship, that she (Katie)
never appeared in Philadelphia. I am far from imput¬
ing to either of these ladies any lack of good faith:
but it occurs to me, as probable, first, that Mrs.
Conant, having read seme of Katie’s early recorded
expressions, concluded, as mediums will, that Miss Cook
has been ill-treated ; and secondly, that Miss Cook,
misinterpreting words used, verily believed that Katie,
in leaving her, had left the earth not to return. It is
my opinion that these preconceptions, unconsciously to
the mediums, tinged both of the communications coming
through them. They conflict with the letter and the
spirit of what Katie, in a dispassionate mood and
uninfluenced by question or remark from any one,
unexpectedly to myself, and spontaneously, said to
me with her own lips.
Finally, if you suggest the improbability that Katie,
out of the hundred mediums to be found in our
country, should have selected the Holmes’s, I remind
you that you have yourself furnished evidence that
such a selection was highly probable. In your issue of
February 1st, 1873 (or possibly it was the 15th), yen
have given a letter from one among Miss Cook’s most
active friends, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, in which he narrates
the particulars of a seance held at Mr. Holmes’, 16,
Old Quebec-street, on Monday the 13th of January,
1873, at which he (Mr. Luxmoore) was present. After
stating that three or four faces were plainly seen,
he adds : “ Last of all came ‘ Katie,’ who generally, or
I might say always, presents herself at Miss Cook’s
seances. I have seen her three times at Hackney, and
could perfectly identify the face. ... I, although I
had not the slightest doubt as to the identity, said:
i If you are Katie, put out your chin as you do at Miss
Cook’s.’ This was at once done, and I should think it
perfectly impossible for any one who has had the
privilege of attending Miss Cook’s seances to have a
single doubt of her being the same we see there.’
(The italics are Mr. Luxmoore’s.)
Miss Cook’s Katie did, then, appear through the
Holmes’s in London : why not also in America ? But
this is not all.
Every one who has been fortunate enough to attend
a few of our sittings of last June or July, will bear me
out in the assertion that the one peculiarity of Katie’s
appearance at the aperture was that, immediately after
speaking to any one, it was her habit to draw back the
upper part of her face and head, thus bringing her chin
prominently forward. The writer in the Galaxy, to
whose article I have already referred, observed this.
He says (page 758) “ As usual she repeatedly called us
‘ stupid,’ smiling mischievously, and putting up her
chin whenever she said this or any thing else amusing.”
This is a trifle, but it is a very significant one, in the
way of evidence.
Again, in the interesting details you have given us
of the gradual progress made by Katie and her spirit
friends, throughout several years, in the difficult process
of materialisation, you have supplied additional evidence
in favour of my view of the case. It is evident that
these spirit-artists need time and study in order to
become proficient. And it is not at all likely that
any spirit, without long preparation and experience,
precisely such as Katie had at Hackney, should be
capable of exhibiting herself in the marvellous manner
she did to us last summer: and this the rather, because
what we then witnessed was substantially a reproduc¬
tion of what Mr. Crookes and other London Spiritualists
record, with such additions and advances toward the
perfection of the phenomena as were naturally to
be expected in the gradual progress of spiritual art.
There will appear in the January number of the
Atlantic Monthly—an old-established magazine of the
highest literary character—a paper prepared by me at
the request of its editor, giving in careful and circum¬
stantial detail, a record of our sittings, day by day,
during last summer. As many of Katie’s London
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
Dec. 18* 1874.
friends as may read this, will be better prepared
to judge bow far the sayings and doings and character¬
istics of the Katie there described, correspond, or do not
correspond, with those of Miss Cook’s spirit friend.
It is very true that the proofs of spirit materialisation,
resting as they do on the strict evidence of sense,
are not at all affected by the minor question of identity,
settle it as we will. But yet it is a great satisfaction
to find evidence affording fair and reasonable assurance
that a spirit, to whose kind exertions I am indebted for
such phenomenal attestation of a life to come as I
never expected to obtain until death opened my vision,
did not deceive me by false representations in regard
to herself and her antecedents. As one may be called
upon by affection or gratitude to sustain an earthly
friend unjustly suspected of falsehood; so may it become
even a higher duty to vindicate the character for
veracity of a beneficent spirit to whom one owes obli¬
gations that can never be acquitted, and whom one has
learned to know and to prize as gifted with the best
qualities of the heart. Robert Dale Oweit.
Philadelphia, Nov. 23rd, 1874.
THE IDENTITY OF THE TWO «KATIE KINGS.”
BY THE EDITOR.
For some months past the question of the identity
of the English and the American “ Katie King” has
been a warm subject of debate in the United States,
since the spirit who materialised herself in the presence
of Mr. Robert Dale Owen in America claims to he the
same Katie King who for three years manifested in
England through Miss Florence Cook. During the
three years that Katie manifested through Miss Cook,
I think that the signatures in the visitors’ attendance
hook will show that I did not miss being present at
more than ,one seance out of every ten or fifteen; re¬
cords of most of those secmces were not published in
The Spiritualist, although many were, whenever they
were deemed to be of public interest. Having thus
given so much time, not only at these seances, but at
those with other mediums, to obtain a practical know¬
ledge of the facts before becoming biassed by any
theories or speculations, I desire to make a few com¬
ments upon the article of Mr. Dale Owen, published
in another column. In any discussion there is a
tendency to take “ sides,” and this proclivity has a bad
mental effect on the advocates, tending to bias their
own opinions, although not those of the inquiring
listeners, so at the outset it is well to disclaim any in¬
terest but a desire to know the truth, in what may be
the ultimate decision of the question as to the identity
of the spirits, if data for a decision exist.
At dark seances spirit voices and spirit hands have
been common for years, and when materialised spirits
began to show themselves they were the same who all
along had been talking at voice circles ; the voice was
the same, and the phenomena were interchangeable—
that is to say, if the materialisation medium sat at a
dark seance, the direct voice came from the same spirit
who in the light seance had been visibly materialised.
When the voice spirits were first seen everybody was
startled to see them the duplicate of their mediums,
and the evidence now accumulated leaves no doubt that
at many of both kinds of seances there is duplication;
at some there has not been duplication, whilst in the
larger proportion of cases the tests have been incon_
elusive, and given no absolute evidence to the physicist
either one way or the other.
To show how much the identity of the spirits is
obliterated by the conditions of communicating, I may
state that never once at any of the seances at which
these “doubles” of the medium have manifested have
I heard the said spirits give any good evidence of their
own identity, or of the identity of any other spirit
purporting to be in the room. I say this after attend¬
ing probably two or three hundred seances altogether,
with different voice and materialisation mediums. Nor
has such evidence been given to others when I have
been present, although enthusiastic persons, by putting
leading questions, have obtained, or even unconsciously
forced, the answers they wished, and obtained evidence
of identity satisfactory to their own minds. These
particular spirits have displayed little mental capacity
above that of their mediums, and have never in my
presence given an atom of information about anything
taking place anywhere more than a dozen yards dis¬
tant from the house in which the seance was held. In
fact, in mental characteristics they have resembled
their mediums as strongly as they have done in features,
and if everything material has a corresponding spiritual
basis, this is only natural.
Other spirits than the voice or materialisation spirits
have often displayed knowledge beyond that of the
medium, even to the extent of giving messages
correctly in languages the medium did not understand,
and in giving strong proofs of identity, but in this case
we are dealing only with the approximate double who
appears in white drapery.
In the case of all the John Kings and Katie Kings
I have heard or seen in England they have never once
in my presence given any information of a practical,
tangible character, beyond the range of the knowledge
or capacity of the medium. The only exceptions were
that once Katie gave accurately the name of a person
a lady—a stranger to the medium—was thinking of,
and in the other John King was nearly right as to a
name he gave me. Friends and relatives present would
say the manner of these spirits was different from that
of their mediums, and they often varied from them
perceptibly in size or colour, still the general charac¬
teristics were the same.
Thus, assuming Katie to be an independent spirit,
and not the spirit of the medium in another state of
consciousness, reclothing itself with matter, I assume
her characteristics when manifesting to have been so
swallowed up in those of the medium, as to have
obliterated most of the evidence of separate identity.
The same may be said of all the other manifestations
of the same kind through other mediums. The sayings
of these spirits, and the opinions of their mediums, are
almost one and the same thing, for which reason the
value of the utterances of the former, considered as
spiritual revelations, is considerably modified. When
these points are considered, the stress Mr. Owen lays
upon what Katie said, and the particular words she
used, is seen to be of limited importance, since the re¬
marks may have consisted chiefly of the opinions, the
likings, or the dislikings of the medium. Hence,
whether Miss Cook liked Katie to manifest through
another medium might have an influence on the
messages.
Katie’s statement that at the expiration of three
years she should leave the medium, was not of recent
date; she first said so about three years ago, and often
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 18, 1874.
repeated the same afterwards. I do not remember
her exact words, but the impression on my mind has
been all along that her meaning was that her work
being done, she should rise too high in spirit life to be
able to communicate anywhere by means of physical
manifestations, but she said that by mesmerising the
medium, the latter could at any time see her clair-
voyantly.
I think it most likely that the spirits who can
materialise easily are very much like their mediums in
nature, or they could not be happy together, or in
strong mesmeric sympathy; that the spirit being out
of the material world, and divorced from material
conditions, can only take on such material conditions
as it finds about the medium, and this holds good even
to the form of the duplicate brain in the head of the
materialised spirit. Where the drapery comes from,
where it goes to, and why such almost miraculous
properties are connected with it while it is on the
spirit body is a dense mystery at present.
The question arises whether the mental identity of the
American Katie is equally masked by that of one or
both mediums, hut as those mediums have passed
beyond the stage of the materialisation of the chief
voice spirit only, and have long been obtaining re¬
cognisable spirit faces in private houses under test
conditions, very possibly there may also be distinct
mental individuality connected with the faces. As re¬
gards the full form of Katie, Mr. Owen is reticent on
the point whether she bears any trace of resemblance
to either of the mediums; in a photograph taken at
Chicago of Katie, with Mrs. Holmes as medium, the
former is practically the double of the latter; in her
utterances also she has expressed the same antagonism
to Mr. Crookes. Did the intelligence she displayed in
her conversations with Mr. Owen come from Mr.
Holmes, who can write forcibly and intelligently ?
The Holmes’s are undoubtedly powerful mediums.
At Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, Mrs. Holmes was once
held by both hands by Sir William Dunbar, and Mr.
Holmes by another visitor, in the dark; about thirty
guests were present. Under these conditions musical
instruments flew all over the room, and nearly every¬
body was fingered about the head by spirit hands.
Still, every manifestation they exhibited not under test
conditions should be set aside in this controversy;
but those in which Katie appeared to Mr. Owen are
amply verified, though he does not appear to have been
successful in inducing Katie to come out of the new
cabinet while both the media were outside.
The case of the American Katie claiming to be the
same with the English one now, is not parallel with
the cases in which she or another made the same claim
to Mr. Luxmoore. 1. Because the two Katies then
agreed in their statements. 2. Because once at Mrs.
Scott’s, Miss Cook’s Katie abruptly left a seance at
which Mr. Gerald Massey, Mr. Dawe, myself, and
others were present, saying she had work to do else¬
where, and that same night a spirit professing to be
her appeared at one of the Holmes’s public circles.
3. Mr. Luxmoore, who is a cautious and not an enthu¬
siastic observer, recognised her features. 4. Because it
is known that when physical mediums have met once
or twice, a connecting link is established between
them, so that spirits can sometimes carry small objects
between the two circles, as they have frequently
carried letters for Baron Kirkup. This link appears
to break when the media have been long separated.
I know a curious case of a strong physical medium
being developed in the home of a Spiritualist; the
wife of the latter grew weaker and weaker when the
medium left them, especially at the time he was giving
seances, and the spirits told them that if they did not
leave England to break the link, she would he so
weakened as to die. They waited till they saw that
this statement was on the point of being verified, then
broke up their home and went abroad for some time.
The lady rapidly recovered, and they are now back in
England. This is an authentic case, and no doubt
Mr. Owen could have the names and addresses pri¬
vately.
As to Mr. Dale Owen’s argument, that it is a duty
to “vindicate the character” of beneficent spirits, that
of course is very true, but the very question at issue is,
whether or no he is vindicating the characteristics of
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, as expressed in a temporarily
materialised human form.
As the whole question of spirit identity is a very diffi¬
cult one, and the weakest link in the chain of evidence
on which Spiritualism is established, the attention of
all close thinkers should be directed to this branch of
the subject; the manifestations are then sure to take a
turn in the same direction, since at circles spirits try
to give manifestations which please the sitters. If Mr.
Owen would give a careful summary of facts, scientifi¬
cally describing the manifestations which occur through
the Holmes’s, especially the imperfect ones, and the
partial failures—since these usually throw most light
upon the philosophy of their production—it would be
more easy to form opinions on the subject now under
consideration; but at present we are without detailed
evidence as to the nature of their mediumship, per¬
fected results, described in such a form as to interest
the outside public and not the student, being chiefly on
record.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE OXFORD UNION.
Osr the evening of Tuesday, December the 8th, at a private
business meeting of the Oxford Union, Mr. St. George Stock,
of Pembroke College, brought forward the motion, “ That
some paper representative of Spiritualism be taken in by the
society.”
The mover spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I shall be
brief in my advocacy of this motion, which I have ventured to
bring forward ini the interests of the Union, and not in the
interests of Spiritualists, who, in this place, are few and far
between. I need not remind the House that there are three
stages through which every new truth has to pass. First, it is
wicked: secondly, itis foolish; thirdly, everybody knew it before.
Now I think it would only be an act of common prudence on
the part of this society to lay in a stock of information on the
subject of Spiritualism, with a view to the better support of
those pretensions, which we shall undoubtedly sooq be, putting
forth, to having known everything about it all along. There
are so many organs representative of the movement in this
country, that I have thought it would be hardly in place for
me to select which should be taken in. That may be left to
the after consideration of the House itself, or its treasurer. I
will content myself with a brief indication of the periodicals
devoted to Spiritualism in England. At the head of the list
stands the Spiritual Magazine, a long-established and well-
conducted periodical. The editor, after years of unrequited
labour, is at length forced to relinquish the work which he has
so well sustained. He is resigning in favour of Dr. Sexton, a
gentleman long prominent as a leader of the Secularists, but
who, like so many of that party, has of late thrown himself,
with the zeal of an apostle, into the cause of Spiritualism.
We may look for a vigorous conduct of the magazine in the
hands of its new editor. Another monthly magazine is en-
Dec. 18, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
titled Human Nature. It is edited by Mr. Burns, one of the
prime workers in the cause of Spiritualism in this country,
and whose powers of work are almost preternatural. It
represents the more heterodox, but not the least suggestive
side of Spiritualism. Then there is another monthly, the
Christian Spiritualist, edited by Dr. Sexton. This is not in
the form of a magazine, but rather of a paper. Of the
weekly papers The Spiritualist is the one which is, perhaps, on
the whole, best adapted for admission within these walls. It
presents a favourable exterior, and is thoroughly well edited.
A new paper has of late been started, entitled the Pioneer of
Progress. It also contains good matter: but it is “ Young, sir,
young.” From one point of view, the Medium is important.
It enjoys an extensive circulation, and is (joing a good work.
But it is essentially the people’s paper. Every one is allowed
to have his ding in it. It is in fact far too catholic for un¬
mixed purity of diction, embracing, as it does, the grammar
of dissent, as well as “ the grammar of assent.” One of the
most salient features about this paper is the extreme intre¬
pidity with which the editor allows the most hostile criticism to
find a place in its pages. Indeed, one can hardly help suspect¬
ing that there must be a sound core of truth in Spiritualism,
when he sees how little it fears an examination of the rind.
But by this time I imagine most candid persons will have reached
the same conclusion on other grounds. Within the brief space of
thirty years this great movement has leavened thought in the
New World, and is fast leavening it in the Old. Falsehood
and imposture cannot effect such a result: but truth and
sincerity can. Mere imposture and mere falsehood never
moved the minds of millions; never carried with them men
eminent in every walk of science and literature. These men,
when reproached with the triviality and vulgarity of their
supposed spirit-communion, will tell you that these things
come first, that vulgar and trivial minds on earth will attract
their fellows in the world beyond, that the dweller on the
threshold must be braved before the higher mysteries can be
revealed to the initiate. They will tell you that, if you gaze
only on the gargoyles of a Gothic edifice, you will see nothing
but grotesque images, half-human, half-brute, mopping and
mowing at you with meaningless derision, but that the whole
is a temple of majestic beauty, and filled with notes of praise.
But whether these things be so or not is beside our present
purpose. We in this place do not pledge ourselves to any
opinions. We are not all Evangelicals, if we take in the RocTc
or the Record; nor all New Catholics, if the Church Times be
seen on our tables; nor yet scoffers all, if we indulge in the
perusal of the Pall-Mall and the Examiner. Our object is to
ascertain the manner in which the minds of our fellow-
countrymen are at work; and certainly, to judge from the
behaviour of honourable members to-night, I should say that
most here would be of opinion that the minds of Spiritualists
are working in a singularly abnormal and striking way. Not
that Spiritualism is a mere phase of thought. It is a record of
facts—facts attested by overpowering evidence. It is in this
that the strength of Spiritualism lies; it is this that ensures
its permanent importance. Opinions may be controverted;
systems overthrown : but facts cannot be undone. Whatever
may be the explanation of Spiritualism in which men of
thought will ultimately rest—and I think that it opens up
unexplored and unsuspected depths in the nature both of
matter and mind—the acceptance of its phenomena is a mere
question of time. I will entreat the House, therefore, to take
time by the forelock, and recognise this much-abused and
much-ridiculed reality, before the laugh is turned the other
way.
Mr. Stock, being asked to bring forward an amendment
specifying what paper should be taken in, moved—“ That the
paper called The Spiritualist be taken in by the Union.” The
motion thus amended, was carried by a small majority, the
numbers being about 88 to 77.
Spiritualism rsr Martlebohe.—The Marylebone Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism held its monthly social
meeting at 6, Blandford-street, Baker-street, W., on Monday
evening, the 7thinst. The rooms were quite full, and an excellent
entertainment was given by the Misses Claxton, Maltby,
D’Arcey, and Morgan; Messrs. Griffiths, Paul, Glaxton,
Hervey, Tilby, Tyndal, and Whittingham. The music, sing¬
ing, and recitations were good, and the meeting was pro¬
nounced the best the society had held for a long time. The
chairman, Mr. Tilby, stated that although the Association
was working as hard and as well as it knows how, it was rather
short of funds at present.
THE SPIRITUAL DISTURBANCES AT COOKSTOWN.
The Belfast newspapers have published few further particu¬
lars of interest, about the mischievous tricks of the spirits in
the house of Mr. Allen, at Cookstown.
The Belfast Morning News of Dec. 7th has a long article on
Spiritualism, admitting some of the phenomena, advocating
a “ vital force” theory to explain them, and calling for scientific
investigation, saying—Let it be taken out of the hands of
Spiritualists and devilists, and dealt with by men of mind.”
The editor does not appear to know that Spiritualists and men
of mind are the same, also that they laughed heartily at the
mistakes his journal made, in attempting to record the pro¬
ceedings of men of mind” when the British Association
visited Belfast. The following extract from his leading article,
is full of errors, and shows that he understands scarcely any¬
thing about the nature of electricity or magnetism:—
“ When the party sat round the table with their hands on
it, the first thing noticed by the stranger was a painful numb¬
ing sensation in the upper part of the arms; just the same as
he had experienced once when knocked down by lightning—
but in a less degree. That sensation might suggest the idea
of the table having been in some way charged beforehand with
electricity. If that were the case, it would account for all
that followed. But it was impossible to suspect any trick in
the matter; and, as he had had the experience of years for
believing that the electricity, odic force, magnetism, psychic
force, or whatever it is, of the human body does pass into a
table and remain there, his conclusion was that if the table
was magnetised or electrified before Saturday, it was in the
course of previous sittings. No one in the circle was, we think,
a’believer in the spirit theory; but after a few minutes one of
them, who attributes all to magnetism, asked if there was a
spirit present.”
Wood cannot be magnetised, and if a table be electrified
before a seance, the electricity will not remain in it, nor send
currents afterwards through the arms of the sitters.
What are devilists? Has some new sect sprung up in
Belfast ?
Mr. Allen will not admit any more reporters on his pre¬
mises, so the Belfast News Letter sent a special correspondent
in the form of a lady with a little girl, and the chief aim of
the lady appears to be to record what a profound sensation
her appearance and words invariably produced upon the land¬
lady of her hotel, Mr. Allen, and others. As she describes
herself as a “ black stranger,” this is not to be wondered at,
and if tne Belfast News Letter sent a negress to obtain infor¬
mation otherwise beyond reach, it was a master stroke of
stratagem which only the brilliant minds at the head of such
a first-class journal could have hit upon. The lady, however,
discovered nothing new about the nature of the disturbances.
The Belfast News Letter of Deo. 11th has the following from
its London correspondent:—
“ The graphic accounts which have appeared in the News
Letter about the Oookstown ghost have occasioned much
interest in what are termed the Spiritualistic circles of the
metropolis. These are composed of two classes. The first is
made up of those who believe in spirits, and the second of
those who, while declining to Commit themselves so far, still
honestly believe in the genuine character of the phenomena.
With the latter class I own that I sympathise, because I have
myself seen such wonderful things under severe test condi¬
tions that I am quite prepared to admit, with the Boyal Dane
that there are ‘more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamt of in our philosophy.’ The phenomenalists (if so they
may be called) are of opinion that the ‘ manifestations ’ which
trouble poor Mr. Allen and his household so much are genuine.
If they are not, why is not their source discovered, and the
impostors exposed and punished? If, on the other hand,
there is no fraud and they are inexplicable, why are not
scientific means taken to trace the cause ? A gentleman here,
who takes much interest in the subject, tells me that a con¬
scientious clairvoyant or a powerfully-developed ' medium ’
could soon find a solution and solve the mystery, if not
restore the peace of Mr. Allen and his family. Mr. Yarley,
the celebrated electrician, assured me one day that phenomena
of a very perplexing and annoying character constantly
occurred at his house near Bromley, and that they were not
discontinued until a celebrated medium and clairvoyant came
to the spot and investigated the matter.”
Yesterday, Mr. Fay left England for the United States;
Mrs. Fay remains in this country.
294
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874,
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a Council meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Alexander Calder,' the other members present were Mr.
Martin B. Smith, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. E. D. Bogers, Mr. E.
T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, and Mr. B. Harper.
Mr. Martin Smith read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were confirmed.
‘ Miss Kislingbury then read several letters addressed to the
Association. Among them was one from Mr. Everitt, telling
how a spiritual society was in course of formation at Seaham
Harbour, and would probably join the National Association.
Letters from Dr. Sexton and Mr. Binny were read, and the
consideration of a subject mooted by Mrs. Lowe, was deferred.
A letter from Mr. Algernon Joy stated how he had paid a visit
to Professor Max Perty, the only Spiritualist in Berne. A
letter from Mr. D. Young was read, setting forth the proba¬
bility of a Society of .Spiritualists being formed shortly at
Clapham.
. CO-OPEBATION WITH ALLIED SOCIETIES.
The following letter was then read:—
November 16th, 1874.
To the, Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—As a member, I write to suggest that the
Association shall undertake to print the rules of allied societies once a
year, for those societies without charge, provided that in small or other
type the said rules will come within three pages of a sheet of letter paper,
and provided that they allow the National Association to print the names
of the members of the British National Association of Spiritualists’ Council
and other particulars, on the last page. Thus allied societies will be
relieved of a portion of their expenses, whilst our Association will lose
little, the economy lying in the circumstance that two societies will adver¬
tise their programmes, with only one charge for machining. Without this
co-operative action, there will be a double charge for machining two sets of
circulars or advertisements. Although everybody in the provinces and
elsewhere feels that the first expensive thing to be done is to get a home for
the Association, the plan proposed will be a small step towards aiding
allied societies. I also suggest that if a club or reading room be estab¬
lished by the Association, provincial members of the Association residing
outside a radius of not less than twenty-five miles from Charing-cross,
shall have the right of admission to it during temporary visits to London
free of charge. A “temporary ” visit to town to be defined, say, as a visit
of not morelthan four weeks’ duration.—Truly yours,
William H. Habrison.
It was resolved that the Secretaries should ascertain whether
allied societies were prepared to act upon the suggestion, if
the National Association and the local societies shared the
expenses equally of the proposed printing.
NEW MEMBERS.
The following new ordinary members were then unanimously
elected-
Mrs. J. N. T. Martheze, Miss Emily Martheze, Mr. Fritz
Martheze, 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton; Mr. Frederick
O’Connor Prince, Purley Lodge, Patcham, Brighton; Mr.
Poole, 7, Distaff-lane, Cannon-street; Mr. Wm. Oxley, 65,
Bury New-road, Higher Broughton, Manchester; Mr. Christian
Beimers, 2, Ducie-avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester; Mrs.
Earl Bird, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton; Miss Amelia William¬
son, Miss Ellen Williamson, 112, Westboume-park-road; Mr.
John Markham, Mrs. M. A. Markham, North-terrace, Seaham-
harbour, Sunderland ; Mr. Henry Decon, Mrs. Jane Decon,
Frances-street, Seaham-harbour, Sunderland; Mr. Harrop
Wight Bichardson, North-terrace, Seaham-harbour, Sunder¬
land; Mr. Bobert Kay, 19, North-terrace, Seaham-harbour,
Sunderland; Frederick Brown, 22, William-street, Seaham-
harbour, Sunderland ; Mr. Everitt Allard, 17, Frances-street,
Seabam-harbour, Sunderland; Miss Melissa Bogers, Mrs.
Sophia Rogers, Mr. Dawson Bogers, 29, Dalyell-road, Stock-
well ; Mr. John Hare, 15, Chester-crescent, Newoastle-on-
Tyne : Mr. J. C. Eno, Beda Lodge, Newcastle-on-Tyne ; Mrs.
Ashman, 254,Mary lebone-road; Mrs.SarahChinnery,4, Elsham-
road; Mr. Thomas Thelwill, 30, Bichmond-terrace, Hull;
Mr. John White, Shadwell, near Leeds; Mr. George Stead,
Mrs. George Stead, Headingley, Leeds; Mr. Edmunds, 7,
Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth.
Mr. Oxley’s proposer announced that if the Association
attempted any tyranny, or to interfere with individual freedom
or interests, he (Mr. Oxley) would resign membership at once.
A letter from Professor Franz Hoffmann was read, accepting
the invitation to become a corresponding member of the Asso¬
ciation.
Mr. F. Gale, of Hull, and Mr. James Began, were elected
members of the Council.
Invitations to become ordinary members were instructed to
be issued to Mr. B. S. Nayler, of Stawell, Australia; Mr. Deno¬
van, of Sandhurst, Australia; Mr. W. L. Sammons, of Cape
Town, South Africa; and Dr. Childs, Dr. Ditson, and Mr.
Hudson Tuttle, of the United States.
There were no resignations of membership.
GOLD MEDALS FOB FBIZE ESSAYS ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Martin Smith proposed that the National Association
should have gold medals struck, and present one annually to
the author of the best prize essay on some subject connected
with Spiritualism, the subject and the judges to be recom¬
mended by a committee, the competition to be open to any
person residing within the United Kingdom,* whether a
member of the National Association or not. If his idea were
adopted, he would have a die cut, and present the medals for
the first three years, if the Association would accept the
same. A committee should select the subject, which, for in¬
stance, might be “ The Moral and Social Influence of Spirit¬
ualism,” or something of that kind. He thought the adoption
of this suggestion might elicit new and valuable ideas. (Ap¬
plause.)
The suggestion was adopted with thanks, and a committee
was appointed to consider details and report to the Council
thereon. The members of the committee appointed were Mr.
Martin Smith, Mr. Keningale Cook, Mr. E. D. Bogers, Mrs.
Boss-Church, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
FINANCE.
The Finance Committee’s report, signed by Mr. Morell
Theobald, showed a balance of £14 14s. Id. in the hands of the
treasurer.
The names of twenty-three members who had not paid their
subscriptions for 1874 were produced.
The Conference accounts were presented, showing that
the loss over it was £37 10s. Id., and not £45 as had been
roughly estimated.
Mr. E. T. Bennett reported that the amount subscribed
towards the Offices Guarantee Fund was £178 19s. 6d., and
if the Association itself subscribed £50 because of the ex¬
penses it would save by having offices of its own, that would
raise the total to about £230, but about £70 more was desired
to carry out the plans of the committee. The committee was
about to advertise for a small hall.
PUBLIC CIRCLES.
Miss Kislingbury said that she had ascertained that the
general feeling among Spiritualists and mediums, was against
the establishment of public circles, though from the general
public point of view she thought that they were desirable.
The question was deferred sine die.
PERIODICAL SOIREES.
Miss Kislingbury announced that the proceeds of the last
soiree, over and above the expenses, were £l 4s. 8d. She pro¬
posed that monthly soirees should be held, and said that Mrs.
Maltby and Mrs. Kislingbury were prepared to take the
arrangements for tea and provisions into their own hands, to
improve the quality and reduce the expense. It was proposed
to hold the next soiree on or about the sixth of January next.
This was agreed to, and on the motion of Mr. Bennett, the
soiree committee was reappointed, and the name of Mrs.
Maltby added to it.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Chairman said that he had had a letter from Mr.
Martheze, approving his views relating to the establishment
of a school for the children of Spiritualists, as reported in The
Spiritualist, but Mr. Martheze objected to the amount he had
foreshadowed as being sufficient with which to start a school,
namely, £300 a year for three years. He thought that
sufficient to induce a respectable couple to take
charge of a schools Mr. Martheze thought that £2,000
a year would be necessary to begin with, but his (Mr. Calder’s)
idea was that the school should be nearly self-supporting,
leaving a possible balance of loss only to be covered; he
thought it would be self-supporting if influential Spiritualists
gave their names to the undertaking.
Mr. E. D. Bogers thought the estimate of Mr. Calder to be
as much below the mark, as Mr. Martheze’s was above it; the
first expense of taking and furnishing a large house would be
very great.
Miss Kislingbury said that the Association might recognise
and make contracts with certain local schools, at which boys
and girls should be educated; thus the children would not be
* And the Islands in the British seas ?—Ed.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
295
Dec. 18, 1874.
severed from home influence, and all the expense of taking
premises and paying salaries would be avoided.
The further consideration of this subject was postponed,
and the proceedings closed.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS SHOWERS.
Last Friday night a seance was held at the house of
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosveuor-
square, London, W., through the mediumship of Miss
Showers, who kindly gave facilities for the observa¬
tion of the manifestations which take place in her
presence. Among the guests present were Prince Albert
of Solms Braunfels (cousin to the Queen), Lady Paulett,
Mrs. Showers, Lady X., Mrs. Ross-Church, Dr. Allman,
Mr. Harrison, and several other friends.
The materialised spirits Florence and Lenore, appeared
as usual, the chief new point of interest being that Mrs.
Ross-Church was permitted by the spirits to go in and
out of the cabinet almost lil^e one of themselves, her
spiritual nature being so harmonious with the conditions
under which they are able to manifest. She testified
that Lebore led her to the entranced medium and
placed her hand on the heart of Miss Showers, which
was beating hurriedly, “ j umping almost like a rabbit,”
and while she had hold of Lenore, and was touching
the medium, the spirit Peter placed his hands on her
back, and so strong was the influence that she began to
tremble violently; this fit of trembling lasted for about
twenty minutes after she left the cabinet. The en¬
tranced Miss Showers, she said, was less than her
normal size ; her hand was like an infant’s hand, and
had shrunk up inside her sleeve; she had to feel up the
sleeve for the hand, and the little fingers then curved
round her own.
Two bands of spirits, who disagree with each other,
are trying to communicate through Miss Showers. The
spirit calling himself John King, who once gave such
interesting verses through her, came back recently
while she was in a depressed state, saying that her
sorrowful condition of mind enabled him to approach
her once more. His manifestations draw vitality more
from the brain than the body, for her head always
aches now after he has been communicating ; he urges
Mrs. and Miss Showers to send away Peter, the chief
materialising spirit, and the following orthodox lines by
John King, given since he came back, harmonise with
those he gave in earlier days, and which Mrs. Showers
placed on record in these pages :—
Hast thou not seen the swift-running tide
Bending with violence the Arm gutter side ?
So will those feel who their Saviour neglect—
For them no kind arm will be raised to protect.
Bemember thy God in the days of thy youth,
Bemember no passion should supersede Truth,
And take heed that wherever thy lot may be cast,
To remember thy God from the first to the last.
Many verses such as these are written rapidly
through the hand of Miss Showers in reply to ques-
tion-, although in her normal state she has little of the
poetical faculty. The contending advice from the
great and unseen powers renders the position both
difficult and responsible, but it is to be hoped that the
course which will be taken will tend to increase the
happiness and welfare of one of the most remarkable
and disinterested mediums of modern times.
The Baroness Adelma Yay contemplates visiting Eng¬
land next summer.
“MAN TRAXS-CORPOREAL :
THE SUBSTANCE EATHEE THAN THE SHADOW OE THE
MATEEIAL MAN.”
Contemporary Review, December, 1874.
i* Is man, what he seems to be at first sight, body
and little if anything else; or is he more, much more
than this?” Such is the question which Dr. C. B.
Radcliffe sets himself to answer in the paper before us.
It is an earnest and eloquent vindication of the reality
of man’s spiritual existence even whilst prisoned in the
body of flesh; a defence of the views of Plato, Paul,
and those who may generically be called Spiritualists,
against the theories of Aristotle, which find favour with
many modern materialists.
The views of Plato—that things of sense are mere
phantoms except in so far as they derive reality from
things transcending sense—that man derived his true
nobility from his similitude to that Divine Being who
is the true centre of unity and the true source of being
—are shortly put forward; and Plato is described, with
perfect fitness, as “ a devout transcendentalist who
could very well believe that the gods might appear
among men as men, and again disappear; and that men,
without any miracle, might undergo corresponding
changes, because he believed in the material world as
something which is capable of being idealised, or
spiritualised, so as to be rapt away from the senses, and
in the ideal and spiritual world as something not
unsusceptible of that material change by which it
could come within reach of the senses.”
The teachings of the sacred records tell the same
story. Man is “the image of God”—who is “all
and in all”—“by whom all things consist.” In God
“ we live, and move, and have our being.” Moreover
there is evidence that “ there is in man, heyond the
reach of the senses, a man trans-corporeal as well as a
man corporeal; a body celestial and immortal as well
as a body terrestrial and mortal; the one in every way
real, the other only apparent; ” the one “ a house not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens,” and “present
with the Lord j ” the other an earthly tabernacle,
burdensome in every sense, naked, and “ absent from
the Lordthe body terrestrial being something which
is to be, not put off, as by a process of underclothing,
but clothed upon, mortality being swallowed up in
life, “death in victory.”
Having thus stated his points, Dr. Radcliffe proceeds
to illustrate them, dealing—I. with Body; II. with
Mind; and under this latter head speaking of phenomena
connected with—1. Memory; 2. Imagination; 3.
Intellect; 4. Will; 5. Sympathies; 6. Religious
Instincts; 7. Conviction of Personal Identity.
I. Phenomena of the Body.
The matter of which the body is formed is in a state of
endless flux; and yet underlying this ceaseless flux is
something abiding, archetypal, spiritual, related to
what we see, as the Platonic idea to the Platonic
iU(x)\ov; as the body celestial to the body terrestrial.
There is no escaping the conclusion that the material
body holds its very existence in fee from spirit. The
body we see is no more than the adumbration of the
real body. And Dr'. Radcliffe states his belief that
it may be possible on occasions for this material envelope
to be more closely assimilated to that spiritual body
which it enshrines, as, for instance, in the transfigura¬
tion of Christ; in the case of Moses when he vailed his
face lest the glory of it should blind the Israelites; in
the case of the three [children in the fiery furnace; in
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
Stephen, when his countenance shone like that of an
angel; in Philip when he was caught away to Azotus.
In these and other cases, we have traces of a “ body
which might be realized in flesh at one moment and
rapt away from the senses at the next.” “To my
mind,” says Dr. Radcliffe, “ it is more easy to enter¬
tain this belief than to reject it.” It would be hard to
put conclusions more weighty, in language more precise
and forcible.
II. Phenomena of the Mind.
1. Memory cannot fairly be regarded as being solely
due to cerebration. The familiar case is detailed of
the girl who, during a nervous fever poured forth
ravings in Latin, Greek, and Hebrew; and who was
discovered to have lived as servant to an old pastor who
had a habit of walking about and declaiming in her
hearing. Coleridge, in his Biographia Literaria, quotes
this case as evidence that the relics of sensation are
imperishable; and that under other conditions,—the
body celestial instead of the body terrestrial—the whole
collective experience of a lifetime may be instantane¬
ously reproduced—the very records of that dread book
of judgment in which every idle word is recorded, and
from which none may by any possibility be omitted.
This leads to a story of De Quincey’s respecting
a drowning woman who, at the verge of death from
which she was afterwards rescued, “ saw her whole past
life, clothed in its forgotten incidents, arrayed before
her as in a mirror, not successively, but simultaneously;
and that she had at the same time a faculty developed
as suddenly for comprehending the whole and every
part.”
The late hydrographer to the navy, Admiral Beaufort,
relates a similar experience of his own, which Dr.
Radcliffe quotes from a MS. in the possession of Sir
Thomas Watson. It occurred when he was a youngster
on board the frigate Aquilon in Portsmouth harbour.
The conclusions drawn are precisely similar in this case.
The panoramic view of life, the retrospective action of the
. mind, no single thought wandering into the future, the
perfect content that the threshold had been crossed, are
the same in both cases. Only when it was sought to
restore animation did pain and suffering commence.
The present writer can add his own testimony to
those which Dr. Radcliffe cites. Some fifteen years
ago, whilst a student of the University of Oxford, he
was one day sculling on the Isis in a skiff. Ignorant
of the rules which regulate traffic, so as to leave space
for practising eights, he put his little boat across the
track of a racing eight, and was run down. It did not
seem to occur to anybody that one who would trust his
life in so frail a boat was unable to swim. It was so,
however, and he rapidly sunk. The first struggles
over, a feeling of placidity took the place of apprehen¬
sion and pain. A drowsy, dreamy sensation super¬
vened ; and a panoramic view of life even in its
minutest incidents, was presented. It seemed as
though the vision was pictured on the waters as
they passed before his eyes. Soft and shadowy
the picture seemed to float before him; and as
they passed the inner consciousness recalled the
scene, and supplied the comment. Things long for¬
gotten were so recalled to memory; and at the present
moment the writer is able to picture vividly scenes
which occurred before the period to which memory
naturally reached, and which were in this way im¬
printed on his mind by reminiscence. The spirit
seemed to be endued with new faculties, and to see and
perceive independently of the bodily senses. It was
not till the efforts to restore consciousness began to take
effect that pain was felt. Mental horror was joined to
bodily suffering, as consciousness gradually came back.
The body was cold, paralysed, sore, miserable. The
spirit was tortured with anticipation of death, with a
vague horror of what was to come, with “ a kind of
horrid nightmare” (as Admiral Beaufort well describes)
which left on the mind an impression which even now
is not effaced.
And so the present writer has no difficulty in en¬
dorsing the experiences quoted by Dr. Radcliffe, and
the conclusion he draws from them that memory is
imperishable, having its foundations deep down in
spirit, and independent of the material brain.
Passing by the ingenious argument from the know¬
ledge of identity, from the association of ideas, and
from the strange backward way in which memory fails
in old age—all deeply interesting, but transcending our
present limits—we come to
2. The argument from the phenomena of imagina¬
tion.
The story told by imagination is the same as that
told by memory, with additions that give it greater
emphasis and wider scope. Dreams, for instance,
what are they ? May they not be, Dr. Radcliffe
suggests, glimpses of a wider presence, the trans-ego
belonging to the spiritual world, acting independently
of the body ? May it not be that in sleep, or in death,
the portal of a fuller life is opened, and the vision of
Jacob realised ? Imagination, too, in the waking state,
seems to have in it that which points to the action of
man trans-corporeal. A story is told of a little Eng¬
lish girl, about five and a half years old, who spoke
also French and German, but who was unable to
choose the language in which she replied to questions.
If addressed in English she perforce answered in Eng¬
lish ; if in I'rench, in French, and in German to ques¬
tions in German. Ho coaxing, bribing, or scolding
could bring out an English or French reply to a German
question. It 'was a case, one of many in Dr. Rad-
cliffe’s experience, in which the imagination of the
child in speaking would seem to have been overridden
by that of the adult questioner; to be so overridden as
to give no little confirmation to the notion that there
might be actual commingling of the trans-ego belonging
to the two persons.
3. Intellect.
That there is an outer sphere of intelligence, as well
as of memory and imagination, is illustrated by a story
of the Doctor’s own experience. His grandmother,
who lived about four miles from where he was then
staying, was apparently in good health, and Dr. Rad¬
cliffe, then sixteen years old, went to bed with no
thought of her, and with no prevision of what was
about to happen. After two hours’ sleep, he got up
with the full conviction that she had been taken sud¬
denly ill, and that a messenger was on the way to
fetch him. He dressed, and waited at the window,
fully persuaded, as he looked at his watch, that death
had then taken place, and that the messenger would
soon arrive. As a matter of fact he did soon come, and
it was afterwards found that death occurred at the very
moment when the Doctor was looking at his watch and
noting the hour.
Again the writer’s experience confirms the Doctor.
He has had several cases of such prevision, which,
indeed, are common enough to be found scattered up
Dec. 18,1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
and down in the pages of all books that treat of the
subject.
4. Yolition.
The same theory with regard to will is maintained
and illustrated by an extract from Lord Bacon’s Sylva
SyJvarum (Century x., 945, 946), to which the curious
may be referred.
5. Mental phenomena of a sympathetic and religious
character illustrate the same thesis.
Man cannot, if he would, shut himself up in self.
The sympathy which causes him to plunge in and rescue
a drowning fellow-creature whom, perhaps, he has
never seen before, or which causes him to shudder at
the bare idea of the execution of a woman, has a wider
basis than any which the body can supply. “ It is
scarcely,” says Dr. Radcliffe, “ possible to escape
the conclusion that there are actual, even organic,
bonds between man and man, and between man and
nature, as a whole, and that these bonds make them¬
selves felt through sympathy.” Man’s mind must be
regarded as something not merely individual,' but cos-
mical; tending naturally from personal seclusion to
universal comprehension, to the Republic of Plato, to
the Church of Christ.
6. The Religious Instincts of humanity tell the same
story.
They prove an intimate connection between the
humanity and the Deity, “in whom all things consist.”
Conscience, one of them, is but another reason for
believing that the Divine Being, who is the foundation
of mind, is intimately connected with it, making His
voice heard in it when guidance is required. Mind, in
effect, has its foundation in Divine Spirit, and, so far
from being hemmed in within the bounds of man’s
visible body, its sphere is co-extensive with that of the
Divine Spirit itself—as illimitable, as incomprehensible.
7. The last step in the argument is drawn from the
consideration of the ego in man.
It is almost impossible to summarise the close and
precise reasoning by which Dr. Radcliffe arrives at his
conclusion that man is, in very truth, made in the image
of God, and that the spirit which animates and pervades
his body is but a spark struck off from that Divine
Spirit which animates creation. “ Mind,” he con¬
cludes, “ has its foundation in spirit-possessing attri¬
butes which may, nay, must belong, to a spirit created
in the image of the Divine Spirit.” Body, when in¬
quired into, becomes one with spirit—not by degrading
spirit into flesh, not by materialising spirit, but by
taking the flesh into spirit by spiritualising matter.
... In short, the common conception of matter is
altogether excluded by that of spirit; and the only
conclusion to which I can come is that spirit is a
divine reality, which may at one time be manifested to
the senses, either as matter, or as the more ethereal
substance belonging to the body celestial, and at another
be rapt away from the senses; and that no defini¬
tion can apply to man’s spirit in its fulness except that
which is equally applicable to the Divine Spirit—the
‘ divinity that doth hedge a king ’ belonging in sober
fact to man as man.”
Many points in this most striking and remarkable
paper are necessarily omitted. But enough has been
preserved to show how full it is of the highest and best
teachings of the higher Spiritualism—surely a re¬
markable comment on the Doctor’s belief that external
agencies act on men, when we consider that he is him¬
self not familiar with that teaching which Spiritualists
know as the New Faith. Enough, too, the present
writer hopes, to show to those who have been groaning
over the scientific materialism of Messrs. Tyndall and
Huxley that even from among their own ranks there
has come forth a voice which is nothing short of the
truest and purest Spiritualism. M. A. (Oxon.)
PUBLIC CIRCLES.
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
The policy advocated in the editorial article of The Spirit¬
ualist on public circles, in connection with the British
National Association of Spiritualists, has my entire concur¬
rence.
It would be in my opinion highly dangerous to the Asso¬
ciated body, whose chief aim should be to disseminate from a
central home of their own the truths of Spiritualism by
means of lectures, discussions, soirees, etc., to pledge the
reputation of that body for the good conduct of any medium
who obtains strong physical manifestations; such a course
would be, I think, very imprudent, not however from any
intention on the part of the medium to cheat—though of
course that has occurred many times—but from the helpless
state to which a trance medium is reduced when controlled by
a spirit. These spirits are as diverse in temper, habits, and
propriety of conduct, as they probably were in the flesh, and
hence in their anxiety to impress an audience with the
superior power of their particular medium, they will place
him or her in situations, which, if narrowly scanned, would
prove that a great imposture was attempted, and of course the
passive instrument, the helpless innocent medium, is de¬
nounced as a trickster, whilst the invisible though real
actor is alone to blame, who in a mean spirit of jealous
rivalry, wishing to do something more with his medium than
he finds he has the power to accomplish, supplements the
real with some impudent imposture; and thus all who have
aided and encouraged the exhibition of what they sincerely
believed to be real and honest, are at once compromised, and
no explanation, such as I am now venturing upon would be
received by the outside world, and probably it will not satisfy
many of the initiated. But I declare that my experience
proves that my explanation is the true solution of what, in
most instances, is attributed to the misconduct of innocent
men and women. Let the Association by all means encourage
mediums who can give good evidence of the phenomenal
character of Spiritualism ; without such evidence in the first
instance the spread of the great truth would be much slower.
It will be our duty to protect them from the necessity of pros¬
tituting their powers, and exhibiting themselves as con¬
jurors.
But unless they come well recommended, and are mediums
honest in their vocation, like Mr. Charles Williams and
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, who can exhibit powerful physical
manifestations, they had better be avoided, and all inquirers
who desire to study the psychological character of spirit mani¬
festations should be recommended to visit Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke, who have gone on practising them with a perseve¬
rance worthy of a better aim, and who are now, in my opinion,
the best of living mediums.*
In connection with the well-established fact of the mate¬
rialised spirit forms, and for the purpose of introducing the par¬
ticulars of a seance recently held in America, I give the following
extracts from a letter I wrote to Mr. William Crookes in February
last. I said—“ I entirely agree with you as to the undoubted
reality of the phenomena in Miss Cook’s case.. . Meantime I am
disposed to tell you what occurs to my mind in regard to the
figure of Eatie. I take it for granted that the figure is at
times a distinct and separate personality. Mr. Tapps’ observa¬
tion of the nails, &o., would tend to prove it; but at other times
it may be the medium herself who is presented to us freed
from all bindings, however secure; and clothed, re-clothed and
re-tied, too, in an instant of time ! This sounds like a very
absurd theory, but it is not more wonderful than the removal
and replacing the coat in a second, as if done by an electric
* Mr. Ooleman probably alludes to a portion only oft he performances of
Messrs. Maskelyne and Oooke. Their light seance consists of palpable
tricks, and they have an optical table at the back of the platform which the
spectators fancy they see under, but do not. Borne of the things in the
present dark and cabinet seances are more in accordance with Mr. Ooleman’s
views, though at all events mixed with tricks. Their manager announces
from the platform that he himself does not know how many of their
performances are done, so has taken their word for it that they are due to
Jugglery.—Ed.
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
flash, and in these instances the coat (sometimes the waistcoat
from under the coat) is either disintegrated, or the cords by
which the medium is bound are loosened, seals and all, and
brought together again in a twinkling. Either hypothesis is
too difficult of belief by any outsider, and yet one or the other
must occur. You may remember I gave an account of a seance
with the Davenports in the Spiritual Magazine some years
ago, in which I described the way in which they were tied. A
cord was fastened round the body, arms, and legs of Ira Daven¬
port, ten or twelve knots being made on the way to the final
knot of the two ends b'eneath the chair on which he was seated.
This final knot was sealed up with Major Drayson’s signet
ring, and on the restoration of the light in a very short time
I picked up the cord and found it entirely freed from all the
knots except the final knot, and this had the seal on it intact.
I present this to you as a recorded proof that such a power as
that of removing all obstructions really exists.”
Mr. Crookes, with whom I am in friendly correspondence,
but whom I very seldom meet, did not reply to me on (these
points, as I expected he would have done, nor has he ever
broached the subject to me since. He probably reasoned with
himself thus:—
“ I feel sure that the facts recorded by Mr. Coleman really
took place, and I know of my own experience that other phe¬
nomena, quite as strange and difficult of explanation, are
occurring under my own eyes every day; Mr. Coleman has no
scientific character to lose, and feels at liberty to state what,
as Dr. Carpenter would say, he thinks he has seen. But
I am in a very different position. I am a fellow of the
most learned body in the world, and with the single exception
of Mr. Cromwell Yarley, I stand alone in the face of a scep¬
tical multitude of my compeers, who have not had the courage
to examine the phenomena for themselves as I have done, and
who accept the obsolete absurdities of Dr. Carpenter, Professor
Tyndall, and others, about unconscious cerebration, delusion
of the senses, trickery, and so on, by which they attempt to
put aside the startling facts, which if they dared to examine, I
know they would be sure to encounter; facts of such an
extraordinary character, that I am myself struck dumb, and
know not how to deal with them. I therefore, for the present,
think it is wiser to be silent, and remain so until I am com¬
petent to propound a theory worthy of the acceptance of the
Royal Society of England.”
Some such thoughts I have taken the liberty of suggesting
may have passed through Mr. Crookes’ mind to excuse his
studied reticence. But Spiritualists have seen enough of Mr.
Crookes’ character already, to feel assured he will not turn
coward upon the subject, that he will not be afraid to tell such
men as Professor Tyndall what he has really had demonstrated
to his own senses, and I hope he will demand from him that he,
as President of the British Association, shall do something
more dignified than to rub his whiskers against a wine-glass
to imitate a spiritual manifestation.
The interesting fact I have alluded to is given in the Banner of
Light of the 24th of October last, and it is attested by seven¬
teen persons who were present, including two professional
conjurors who tied up the medium, whose name is Church.
The controlling spirit was an Indian known as Nimwaukee.
The spectators were placed in a semicircle, and the medium
took his seat on a chair half-way between the two ends, and
allowed the professors of legerdemain to tie a tape tightly
round his neck, which was sealed with wax, and each to keep
one end of the tape-string in his hands, and to insure the
good faith of the sitters to each other, a cord was passed
around the waist of each lady and gentlemen present.
After many of the well-known phenomena had been pre¬
sented, the medium was found in his place, and the
conjurors still holding the ends of the tape which remained
intact round the throat of the medium. Nimwaukee,
when the light was lowered, addressed the company, and
said he would demonstrate how “ physical mediums were
sometimes unconsciously compromised and apparently exposed
by lights being sprung upon them, and they found standing
on the floor freed from their fastenings, and apparently pro¬
ducing the manifestations.” He said, by a certain chemical
process known only to themselves, they could release a medium
from any fastening, however intricate, and that it was some¬
times necessary, in order to maintain materiality sufficient to
enable them to approach and touch those in the circle, so to
do this they would release him unconsciously to himself,’ and by
the power of their will draw him nearer to themselves (i.e,, the
spirits controlling); thus when the unconscious medium was
so discovered, he was at once branded as an impostor. To
put this matter for ever at rest the Indian spirit said, “ I will
prove this fact to the circle present by releasing Mr. Church
from his fastenings without disturbing the tape,” which was
instantly done, and when the light was brought the medium
was found several feet from his chair minus boots and coat,
and the conjurors still holding the ends of the tape with the
sealed loop that had encircled the medium’s neck. The
medium, still entranced, waved his hand for the light to be
put out, and in less than one minute it was restored, and he
was found in the exact state he had been originally placed by
the conjurors, who still held the tape and declared that
there was no perceptible motion of the cord during the whole
time.
The above is a condensed report of the article which ap¬
peared in the Banner of Light, and to those present it must
have been conclusive evidence of the extraordinary power pos¬
sessed by spirits. It answers the speculative thoughts which
have puzzled us, as to how certain phenomena could be ex¬
plained, and it will be seen that it corroborates to a certain
extent my views expressed to Mr. Crookes several months
before this explanation was given by the Indian spirit at
Buffalo. As we are told this is a question of chemistry, let
us hope that the secret may be confided to Mr. Crookes, who
will best appreciate the action of the chemical agents employed,
as a reward for the boldness he, as a Fellow of the Royal
Society, has displayed, by proclaiming that Spiritualism is
something more than a delusion.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA. IN BIRMINGHAM.
Ok Wednesday, last week, the usual open circle for strangers
and friends was held at the Midland Spiritual Institute, 58,
Suffolk-street, Birmingham. Upwards of twenty ladies and
gentlemen were present, ineluding some hard-headed sceptics.
Mrs. Groom was the medium ; Messrs. Valter and Huskisson
were also present. Although Mrs. Groom was indisposed, suf¬
fering from a severe cold, the phenomena were of a marvel¬
lous character. The seance, as usual, was held under test
conditions. An inner circle was formed around a table ; each
sitter joined hands with his neighbour. Then an outer circle
was made, in which each sitter also joined hands, so that
two concentric circles were formed. In the inner circle the
medium and Mr. Valter took their seats. Before beginning
the seance the whole of the sitters are searched by the greatest
sceptics present, always by unbelievers in the phenomena.
The gas was turned down, and in a little time, while the
sitters were engaged in singing “ There is a land of pure
delight,” most of the persons in the inner circle had placed in
his or her hand a flower, and felt the spirit’s soft hand patting
and caressing them. Other manifestations took place, after
which a light was struck, and there were the flowers—chry¬
santhemums, sprigs of laurestinus, and so on—some placed
between the fingers of the sitters or strewed upon the table;
a white chrysanthemum had been placed under Mrs. Frank¬
lin’s bonnet, while she sat in the outer circle.
The flowers were collected and placed on one side; the sit¬
ting was continued. A spirit, who gave the name of “ Tom
the Sailor,” in a deep, stentorian voice announced his pre¬
sence, and congratulated the captain (Mr. Franklin), on his
partial recovery from indisposition; he said the medium
should have rest, and continued his talk for some twenty
minutes, winding up with a verse of a nautical song, which he
sang in true sailor fashion. Then Mrs. Franklin’s little daughter
Lucy came, in a loving, prattling way, patting her mother’s
hand, and talking with her for a short time. Mr. B. Hawkes’s
well-known voice was heard ; he said that he took a pleasure
in being there, and that he should do all he possibly could to
prove to all that Spiritualism was a great and glorious truth,
as a knowledge of it when he was in the body had helped him
very much in spirit life ; he desired that all should investigate
it for themselves.” Several of the Birmingham friends recog¬
nised the voice, and the peculiar pronunciation of several of
the words of Mr. Hawkes. After Mr. Hawkes had done talking,
little Lucy came and said, “Papa, sing Mr. Hawkes’ song.”
Then Tom chimed in,—“ Why its 1 Paddle your own Canoe ’
he wants.” The song was one which the spirits selected for
the circle a few years ago, and was a favourite of Mr. Hawkes’
before passing over the river.
While the song was being sung, the tambourine and bell
kept time to the tune, floating over the heads of the sitters,
near the ceiling. Afterwards Mr. Huskisson’s little daughter
came and chatted in a subdued voice, patting his hand, and
stroking his beard. Then Mr. Franklin’s father came and
established his identity beyond doubt to him. Mr. Franklin’s
father had six fingers on each hand, and Mr. Franklin felt a
Deo. 18, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
peculiar hand placed on his left hand, and a peculiar hooked
finger took hold of Mr. Franklin’s middle finger, and shook
it most vigorously ; this proved to be the sixth finger of his
father’s hand, which in life was very strong; his habit was to
show its strength by lifting a chair, or by seizing a person’s
finger in the same manner in which he laid hold of Mr.
Franklin’s middle finger, since he has passed to spirit life.
Mr. Franklin says he felt the whole of the six fingers as his
father’s hand was placed on his.
After several questions had been answered by the spirits,
the circle broke up with the singing of the Doxology.
Mrs. Bassett will shortly kindly give the Birmingham In¬
stitute a helping hand, by sitting for its benefit to help to
clear off the debt upon the place.
ittflrregponuence*
[Gnat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
ennesfallen’s mediumship.
Sib,—Will you kindly publish the following letter ? I rejoice
I can bear witness to the good teaching of my spirit friends ;
the power increases, the table tilts with great force, usually
commencing to move in a very few minutes; the sentences
also are longer and communicated more quickly, yet no other
phenomenon has presented itself. However, this may be for
the want of more sitters, but as my friends in this neighbour¬
hood either laugh at Spiritualism or believe in its Satanic origin,
I cannot have them at our sconces, as the effect of their presence
on myself so strangely disquiets me, though it neither hinders
the spirits coming or giving convincing proof of their identity.
For the present I and my husband sit alone. Three months ago,
before my own mediumship was developed, he was a thorough
sceptic, but no candid mind could longer continue one.
The other night, shortly before leaving the room, much to
our astonishment the name of Chalmers was spelled out. I
asked if he was the spirit of the great divine, and was answered
in the affirmative. “ Have you come from Heaven ? ” “ Fes.”
“ Are you perfectly happy ? ” “ No.” “ And why not ? ”
“ There are higher degrees of happiness” “ Then you have not
reached the highest ? ” “ No.” “ Is your religious belief the
same now as when on earth?” “ Yes.” “Have you seen
God?” li No.” “ Shall you ever see Him ? ” “Fes.” “Are
you the good spirit we were told would come to us ? ” “ Fes.”
“ To which of us do you come?” “ You.” “Why do you
come to me ? ” “ To guard.” “ Are there any evil spirits in
the room?” No.” “ Any good ones ? ” “Fes.” “ Do we
commit any sin in having these seances ? ” “ No.” You will
return to us again, will you not?” “ Yes.” “If you are
really the spirit of the man you profess to be, what advice
would you have given us had you still been in the flesh ? ”
“Fear thy God; love your enemies.” “Have you anything
more to say to us ?” “ Fear and trust in the God of your Fathers.”
Then the power became very faint, and thus ended our seance.
Now, I would ask, how can I for one believe that such teaching
springs from an evil source ? Ennesfallkn.
SECOND SIGHT IN THE ISLE OF SKYE.
Sib,—The phenomena of modern Spiritualism were well
known to the inhabitants of the Isle of Skye in 1700; that
being so, why say that “ Spiritualism made its first appearance
in America twenty years ago.” Such an impression gains
credence among old investigators, and for the credit of the
phenomena, the sooner the erroneous impression is removed
the better.
Theophilus Insulanus, page 16, case 21, says:—
“ Donald Mo’Kinnon, an honest man, residing in Glendale,
informed me that when being in South Uist, he had a servant
woman remarkable for the second sight, who, upon a night as '
she was grinding at the quiern, saw a corpse stretched to a
loose dale in the partition in its winding sheet, which came
down to its knees; this she immediately told publicly to all
present; she had the same represented twice or thrice there¬
after, which made the wife of the house apprehensive it con¬
cerned herself, or some of her children f in a short time
thereafter, one John Mc’Kinnon, a neighbouring tenant,
sickened and died.
“John Oag (Anglice,Young) Mc’Kinnon, brother to the
defunct, who had the charge to provide for the interment,
applied to the deolarent for timber to make a coffin, who gave
him the dale to which the said seer had seen a corpse
stretched on four different times, and as they could get no
linen for a winding sheet, the said John Oag Mc’Kinnon was
obliged to make use of one of his own wearing shirts, which
when it was put upon the corpse, reached but to its knees,
thereby fulfilling the second sight in all its circumstances.”
Again, page 47, case 55 :—
“ Mrs. Anderson relates that in spring, 1751, as she lay awake
in her bed in Kilmure—the rest of the family being asleep—
she heard a great noise behind a partition of deals that was
close to her bed-head. She imagined that part of the wall of
the house had fallen, called to her son to get up and go out
and see if the wall was fallen, which he declined. She, in a
few minutes, went out, viewed the wall, which stood firm and
disappointed her expectations.
“ Same night Florence Beaton, her said servant, dreamed
that Donald MoGaskill, present beadle, their door neighbour,
carried a large white mutton into his own house, and hung it
up. About sunrise that morning, John McLeod, of Drynock,
and his servant, coming from Dunvegan, went by the end of
the house, and about the sixth part of an English mile, in
sight of the houses, the servant shot himself accidentally (?)
with his master’s swiss; his corpse was carried by Donald
McGaskill into his own house. The gun and wallet he carried
were laid at the partition in Mrs. Anderson’s, and the dale
where she heard the most of the noise was taken down and
the corpse laid thereon. Thus both noise and dream had their
completion in three or four hours.”
Dr. Samuel Johnson, in his Tour to the Hebrides, says:—
“ By pretension to second-sight no profit was sought or
gained.
“ It is an involuntary affection, in which neither hope nor
hope nor fear have a part. Those who profess to feel it do not
boast of it as a privilege, nor are considered by others as advan¬
tageously distinguished. They have no temptation to feign,
and their hearers have no motive to encourage the imposture.
To talk with any of these seers is not easy. There is one living
in Skye with whom we would have gladly conversed, but he was
very gross and ignorant, and knew no English. The propor¬
tion in these countries of the poor to the rich is such that if
we suppose the quality to be accidental, it can very rarely
happen to a man of education, and yet on such men it has
sometimes fallen. There is now a second-sighted gentleman
in the Highlands, who complains of the terrors to which he is
exposed.”
Any one cannot but see at a glance, that the second sight of
the eighteenth century, is one and the same thing as modern
Spiritualism. It scrupled not to destroy humanity for the
direct purpose of spreading fear and superstition among the
people in 1751, and it does the very same on a more gigantic
scale in the present day. Theophilus Insulanus asks the fol¬
lowing questions:—“ Are not spirits capable of mutual intelli¬
gence, unless immersed in bodies ?” “ Must superior nature
depend on inferior for the main privileges of social beings;
which is that of conversing with each other ?” “ What would
they have done if matter had not been created ?7 Aye, in¬
deed ! what would they have done if matter had not been
created ? Could they have injured a man of the name of
Death simply for effect, if Death had no bodily organisation ?
The circumstances of the case are simple, but no less spiritual
in a double sense. A man by name of Death was found dead
at the door of a publican of that name in London some
years ago. Muller disposed of his victim’s property to a
jeweller of that name; why of all names did the murderer
select a buyer of that name ? The answer is simply that the
selection was not of his choosing, no more than Mrs. Anderson
was the cause of the disturbance in her house, which had its
significance in a metaphysical tragedy.
The most terrible calamities of these times are due to the
same cause, viz., mental power in forces over organic con¬
struction. John Black.
61, King-street, Glasgow, Dec. 6th, 1874.
DIFFEEENCES.
Sib,—Having seen in your last number a long letter by Mr.
Enmore Jones, about orthodox Christian Spiritualists, fol¬
lowed by rather un-Christian remarks on Dr. Gully, I take
the liberty to put the question to Mr. Enmore Jones,—What
does he understand by “ orthodox Christians ? ” hoping that
he will kindly give an explicit answer. So many call them¬
selves Christians still, who have done away, some with half of
the fundamental dogmas, others with nearly the whole lot.
But as “ orthodox ” means a higher grade of conservatism
of dogmas, I take the liberty to inquire if Mr. Enmore Jones
believes,—1. That the laws were given to Moses by God;
2. That Moses has seen God in the bush; 3. That the pro*
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
phets were inspire I by God; 4. That Jesus was the only one
in His time who had power to heal, or to cast out devils;
5. That we are to arise with our earthly body; 6. That Jesus
did appear after His death with His earthly body; 7. That
the pouring out of the Holy Ghost on the day of Pentecost is
something different from what we witness to-day ; 8. If he
maintains the notions of a personal devil and a local hell ?
It will be only after an explicit answer to these questions
that we shall be able to judge if Mr. Enmore Jones is one of
the orthodox Christians he alludes to.
Hoping that the orthodox Christian Spiritualist will have
the kindness to reply, I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
Brighton. J. N. T. Martheze.
LECTURE BY MRS. JACESOK.
On Wednesday afternoon, last week, Mrs. Jackson delivered
a lecture on “ Wit and Humour,” at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, the latter lady having
kindly lent her drawing-room for the purpose. Among the
listeners present were Sir William Fairfax, Miss Douglas, and
several other ladies and gentlemen.
The lecture not being connected with Spiritualism, except
that it was for the benefit of the widow of that ardent worker
in the cause of psychology, Mr. J. W. Jackson, it would
be out of place to give a lengthened report. Mrs. Jackson
defined the differences between the wit exhibited by north¬
ern and southern civilised nations, and among her anec¬
dotes gave a somewhat remarkable one relating to the
efficacy of prayer. A Scotchman, one “ Willie,” stole
a doctor’s sign-board merely for the purpose of playing
a practical joke, but the police saw him carrying off
the booty, pursued him to his house, and on reaching
the door of his room, heard him praying sonorously inside.
With the instinctive strong reverence of the Scotch for the act
of worship, the policemen would not interrupt by entering,
but waited till he had finished. The prayer lasted an hour
and a half, during which time every fragment of the sign was
reduced to ashes on the top of the fire. Willie then said, “ A
wicked and perverse generation seeketh for a sign, but it shall
not be given unto them.” When the police entered there was
no sign of a sign. The lecture was interspersed with several
particulars of interest about the early contributors to Punch,
including Thackeray, Douglas Jerrold, Mark Lemon, and
others.
At the close of the lecture Mr. Macdonald proposed a vote
of thanks to Mrs. Jackson, which was seconded, and carried
unanimously.
An American physical medium, Miss Gonzollonez, has
just arrived in London from the United States.
The paintings representing very beautiful faces, exhi¬
bited at the last soiree of the National Association, were
executed by Miss Florence Claxton.
Orders for the proposed illustrated Spiritual periodical
should be addressed to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 11, Ave Maria-
lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E O.
Spiritualism in Darlington.—Mr. G. R. Hinde writes :
—“ On Sunday last our morning meeting was opened by Mr.
D, Richmond. The subject considered was ‘ Creation.’ In
introducing the subject, he took the view ‘ that in the begin¬
ning the Creator produced all that came into existence out of
nothing, from or by the inherent powers of His being,—thus
producing (I use his term) matter which did not exist before.’
I took exception to this view, and replied briefly, showing
that since science reveals the primal nature of matter to be
indestructible, therefore we may logically infer it could never
have been created. We are led to conclude that in the
‘ beginning ’ (a relative term) there was from all eternity,
coeval and self-existent, mind and matter, or, in other words,
God and His physical constitution, sometimes called Father
God and Mother Nature,—these terms representing the dual
nature of the Deity. From this basis all worlds, including
the mineral, vegetable, animal, and spiritual, had arisen;
thus there had been no primal creation, simply change, inces¬
sant change, eternal change.* By the action of volition or
will-power God moved upon the primal substance, altered the
arrangement of the primal atoms, and, as a natural sequence,
caused things of life and beauty to evolve from chaos and
spring into order and form ; therefore it will be correct to say
that a world, a plant, a tree, or animal corresponds to or
represents in objective form a thought of God, a conception
of Deity.”
M. Gustave de Yeh is on a three months’ tour in
Russia, and intends to visit England about February next.
Lady Caithness is now in Florence, and we regret to
hear from her that for several days she was ill in Milan.
Mr. G. R. Hinde, of Darlington, will visit London, in
a week or two, and would be glad of facilities for seeing
spiritual manifestations.
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Medtumship. — At the last
seance Mr. Harrison had with Miss Lottie Fowler, she in the
trance told him that ” she saw a person named George Lewis,
who she thought did not die in his bed, because she saw him
as if in pain, with his hands clenched and placed on both
sides of his head.” Here she placed her elbows on the table,
and put her clenched hands over her ears. Mr. Harrison re¬
plied that he once had a friend of that name ; he did not
know whether the other particulars were true, but thought it
probable that they were. Tests of spirit identity like this are
best obtained when one person only is present with the
medium ; with a third person in the room the revelations of
clairvoyance become more unreliable, the influences being
mixed.
A SOIREE DANSANTE, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
FOURTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
“DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM,”
will be held at the
LUXEMBURGH HALL,
(Opposite Dalst.on Junction Station, North London Railway), on or about
THURSDAY^ 21st of JANUARY, 1875.
i The chair Will be taken by the President,
ALFRED E. LOYELL, ESQ,.
Dancing to commence at 9 o'clock.
Paintings, Drawings, Photographs, and other objects of interest will be
exhibited by various friends; and many influential Spiritualists maybe
expected to take part in the evening’s proceedings.
Further particulars will be duly announced.
Any Spiritualist friends willing to aid the executive by the loan of
articles of interest to “ Spiritualists,” or by contributing in any way to the
proceedings, please communicate with the Honorary Secretary, A. M.
Greene, at his private residence, 7, Oastledine-road, Anerley-park, S.E.,
or to Thomas Blyton, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
Tea and Coffee at 6 o clock.
Admission:—Single Ticket, 3s.; Members of the Association, 2s. Gd.
Double do. (for Lady and Gentleman), 5s.; Members, 3s. 6d. Family do
(to admit Four Persons), 7s. 6d.; Members, 5s.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—"H.mns'ER.T N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year's Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every montb, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement In this country With
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Klngsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
171 PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
; • Sittings o la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2S. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, ■ will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
xesidence, 10. Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-ro&d, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURAT LYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-ceht Stamps. Register tour Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Stances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fiiz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W*.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, 8.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice.D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., WestKensington-pk., W. ■
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chamhers, Portman-square, "Vv
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendc Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34 Walnut-s'reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road] North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughhorough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cresceht, Westbonme-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton^
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-stieet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.L.G.E., Junior United Service Club, N.W.
Kisimgbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street. ’
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29. Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road^OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth. .
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, TJpton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. G., Hill House, Versailles-read, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wile on, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is,
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
MISS G0NZ0LL0NEZ gives seances daily from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and every evening (except on Sundays and
Mondays) at 8 p.m.. at No. 1, Maddox-street, Regent-street, London.
Terms 10s. Day sittings and answers to sealed letters one guinea each.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may he
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spintual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. f d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARK AS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbnry, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W, {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emth de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potsehach, Styria, via Gratz
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brantlng, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Ttev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiri'.ualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. Y. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearycband Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne; Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Prfrty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell*
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Ley marie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. WiUig, Esq., Nnrnbergsr Strasse 35, Leipsio
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 18, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner, Gale
Sillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Sillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Eisch, Esq.,'
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq:; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:— .
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
• “ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'1  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencUs and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings Or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?*’ Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
■ The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other form* of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STBEET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the •
prompt execution qf all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature,in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. —: 
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments. should subscribe to
TBE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large, collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and • choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: jT ' --.“"num. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d.
KV, o BSD AY MORNING.
“THE P10AEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C. -■ • ■  
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
rriHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
X SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the. Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the;path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astropomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools. " v(jn ;
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, His.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Y ear’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Cycles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Wilting Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. «d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to GEORGE Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
