AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD,]
No. 148.—(Vol. VI.—No. 26.) LONDON: JUNE 25, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontetm.
The Persecution of Messrs. Leymarie and Firman  ... 301
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXV.    303
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   304
The Trial of Leymarie and Firman before the Tribunal Oorrectionnel:
—The Examination of Buguet—Examination of Leymarie—Ex¬
amination of Firman—Examination of Buguet’s Assistants—Oomte
de Bullet’s Evidence—Miss de Veh's Evidence—M. de Veh’s
Evidence—Evidence of Mme. Stourbe ...      307
Correspondence:—Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan’s Lectures—Direct Spirit -
Writing under Novel Test Conditions—Thomas Lake Harris’s
Position in Relation to Spiritualism—Curious Experiences Relat¬
ing to Dreams—Allan Kardec and his Teachings   310
Materialisation of Spirits at the House of Mr. Crookes  312
Paragraphs: The Suicide of Animals, 306; Spiritualism in Dalston,
306 ; Dr. Sexton at Cavendish Rooms, 310; Mesmeric Healing at
Liverpool, 310; A Garden Party   ... 312
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposa’
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, ;and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Klngsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EYUE SPIRJTE, Journal d’etudes psychologiquea,
JLVf fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. COATES, Principals.
Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical; specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A /Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21sf, at • their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the beneflto
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on tbe Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.'
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
. FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect off Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and .
Religious Condition off Society.
Second Prize, £10. ■ tj •
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-etreet, Bloomsbury, London, W.Q,, of
whom further particulars can be had on application,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG ST, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALK AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GEEAT BUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBUBY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon.. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen, An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
LANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. 6d.
WHERE. ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. it; by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P.. 2s. 6d. ,
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Fr’.e Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. 6d.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. Gd.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. Gd.
Electrical psychology, by Dod. 7s. Gd.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott
. 14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
Js. 6d;
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a Latjy. 2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Ts.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
j. d.
Natures’ Divine Eevelations   17 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia   7 6
The Teacher. „ II. ,,   7 6
The Seer. „ Ilf. „     7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „     7 6
The Thinker. „ V. „     7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis  7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land     4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest  7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology     5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual   3 6
Death and the After-Life    4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil  4 0
Harbinger of Health     7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age   4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)  , 7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence ..., 3 0
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion  4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers    8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse   6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves    7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings  5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
'Diakka, and their Earthly Victims   3 0
CongugalLove; Truth ». Theology     3 0
Morning Lectures.....       7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson)     24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist newspaplb  2 6
Keys of the Creeds  5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing Interesting
particulars and legends relating to Buddhism  14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)  5 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ;   18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)  5 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal;      15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen  7. 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
SecretM~y.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jonos, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
ip Jfrxfgrm uq lift nm m\
VOX.UJVIE ^IX. JMUJV1BER TWENTY-^IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 28th, 1878.
CJj£ SpnLalisi: |t^krsppr*
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Keduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United,Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist'" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 3S3, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ „ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge;—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist m&y’be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
ARTHUR MALTBY, '
TAILOE, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .—Siaipkin, Marshall & Co.
THE PERSECUTION OF MESSRS. LEYMARIE AND
FIRMAN.
Br the report published in another column, it will
he seen that the result of the trial of Buguet and
others in Paris for manufacturing sham spirit photo¬
graphs has not only resulted in the richly-deserved
condemnation of Buguet, hut in the undeserved con¬
demnation of Messrs. Leymarie and Firman, who,
unlike Buguet, are entirely innocent of the charge
brought against them; and this serious miscarriage of
justice in France is due to the ignorance of the French
legal authorities of the elementary truths of Spiritualism.
If the reports published in the French journals of what
took place in the trial are to be relied upon, Buguet is
not quite so black as hitherto supposed in the matter
of charging Leymarie with complicity in his malprac¬
tices, for he does not assert that he ever told Leymarie
there was any imposture, but came to the conclusion
that the latter, as a rational man, could not have been
ignorant of the same. Buguet in all probability believes
this, for, being a thorough scoundrel himself, it must
come natural to him to measure others by his own
standard, on the same principle that a carver who is
fond of fat gives large slices of it to his neighbours. A
very good standard of education and toleration has been
reached when a man does not judge the rest of the
world by himself, or believe that it was the original in¬
tention of the Almighty that all men should think alike.
M. Leymarie was warned once or twice by different
persons that imposture was probably at the root of
Buguet’s pictures; but as false charges of imposture
are frequently made against mediums, and Leymarie
was too full of blind faith, coupled perhaps with no
technical knowledge of photography, he unfortunately
took no heed of the warnings. A similar case took
place in this country some time since. An editor
endorsed as genuine spirit photographs many which
had been artificially manufactured, but nobody in Lon¬
don questioned his faith in the matter; it was simply
a case of blind faith and want of technical knowledge.
What can be done to assist Messrs. Leymarie and Fir¬
man? Could not public opinion be brought to bear on
the French Government? Spiritualists are numerous in
England and America as well as in France, and if memo¬
rials were sent in to the French Government from
Spiritualists and Spiritualistic Societies all over the
world, expressing conviction that there has been a great
miscarriage of justice because of the want of knowledge
of French law courts of the proved facts of Spiritualism,
would such a course tend to liberate those who have
been unjustly condemned? This question will no
doubt be well considered within the next week or two,
both in London and Paris, and the general result of
the deliberations of those best acquainted with all the
circumstances will in all probability be brought forward
at the next Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
One feature in connection with this trial requires
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
serious attention, since it deals with influences which
are permanently at work in connection with medium-
ship. Assuming Buguet to be a medium almost en¬
tirely under the control of spirits, what must be the
nature of those spirits if they have caused him to swear
that which is false, and to bring unmerited punishment
upon innocent people? Such moral obliquity is not
without precedent. The celebrated Neapolitan medium,
Sapia Padalino, took to bad courses under the rule of
evil spirits, nor up to the latest accounts from Signor
Damiani which were published in this journal were her
best friends able to save her. Two American mediums
of great power, who visited England some years ago,
and who could get marvellous manifestations when they
were held hand and foot, forged two cheques for a large
amount before they left this country, and at times
seemed scarcely to have any consciousness whether they
were telling the truth or the reverse. Several powerful
American mediums have travelled in that country ex¬
hibiting real mediumship as imposture, though of course
they were unable to explain how the “tricks” were
done, whatever amount of money might be offered to
them, notwithstanding that they were needy people in
disrepute both among Spiritualists and the outside public.
Among the lower order of physical mediums also are
some who have made the most desperate attempts to
ruin each other by the deliberate invention and circula¬
tion of the most atrocious scandals about each other;
indeed,if all that is known upon these subjects could be
brought together and printed in one volume, a depth of
depravity would be revealed which is simply appalling.
Those who have had experience with mediums know
that when by casual spectators the mediums are sup¬
posed to be in their normal condition, their thoughts
and words are usually stimulated by the spirits around
them, especially when any subject affecting the interests
of those spirits is under discussion, so that the question
remains and has never yet been authoritatively answered
—“To what extent are powerful physical mediums,
utterly under the control of the influences about them,
responsible for their acts?”
Applying these ideas to the case of Buguet, is he
merely an instrument in the hands of evil powers which
have destroyed his control over himself, consequently his
moral responsibility, years ago?’ Is he therefore as
much a victim as the innocent people who have been
brought to trouble in company with himself ? Or is he
as responsible for his own actions as any other indivi¬
dual ? The lower the spirits, the greater appears to be
their direct power over common matter; and if those
spirits resemble human beings in general characteristics,
they may be divided into two classes, namely, those who
are working with good intentions, and those who are
working with bad intentions. Take, for instance, the
case of a railway navvy, not very high in the intellectual
scale; if he works with good intentions under the
direction of an intelligent superior, he is a most useful
man, but let him be animated by bad motives, then he
presents the phenomenon of a demon in the flesh, and
from such men as these proceed some of the murders
and outrages which occasionally stain the columns of
newspapers. If these two classes of spirits surround
physical mediums, the problem is how to separate those
who are working from bad motives, from those who are
working from good ones, and in Spiritualism no general
attempt has yet been practically made to meet this
difficulty, although those who attend seances probably
have some control in the matter. Suppose a medium
June 25, 1875.
to be a telegraphic channel through which good or evil
messages may be sent, it is only reasonable to suppose
that the persons who attend physical seances ought-
themselves to be of good character, so that no spirits or
mental influences they would otherwise bring with them
could act upon the medium. It may also be necessary
that the medium before coming to any seance, and, in
fact, from one'year’s end to another, should be surrounded
by good influences in daily life, for sometimes a medium
when walking along the street has been seized upon by
bad influences connected with a person who merely
brushed past him. It may also, as experience is gained,
be proved to be necessary that a physical medium should
be relieved from all care and anxiety about the things
of this life, and should never sit in any circle where the
results would have an influence upon his pecuniary
affairs. Further, it may be discovered that there are
some persons who have animal proclivities which would
be heightened by the mental stimulus incidental to
mediumship; such persons should perhaps not be
allowed to develope medial powers at all.
Supposing these ideas to be founded on truth, it is
evident that in ignorance of the subject we Spiritualists
are acting as foolishly in permitting any physical
medium to sit at a public seance, as a ship captain would
act if he gave one of his chronometers to a horde of
Australian savages to test, and examine, and wonder
at, as seemed to them good. In the days of old, more
was known among certain communities about the
management of mediums than is known now; and it
is noteworthy that in the case of the Grecian and
Egyptian oracles the mediums were altogether secluded
from the outside world. Moreover, in these modern
times it is a remarkable circumstance that nearly all
the best tests of spirit identity have been given when
the medium has been by himself, showing that spirit
action is then most perfect.
The difficult problem—how to deal with malignant
spirits, must be faced sooner or later, and the recurrence
of cases like that of Buguet’s in Paris, of Yon Yleck
in America, and of others in private life which have
not yet seen the light of day, will give such heavy
blows occasionally to the Spiritual movement, that the
trouble inflicted thereby will dissipate lethargy and in¬
difference, and cause the most careful search for a
remedy for the evil; for this is the true philosophy of
the use of pain all the world over. The remarks in
this article apply of course only to the lowest spirits
and the lowest physical mediums, and not to those of a
high character, who are free from untruth and decep¬
tion, and who never make disparaging remarks about
their fellow-mediums.
Supposing all the precautions just suggested to be
taken, if it should then be found that such powers as those
which now control Buguet andothers like him can still act,
it would be established that few but evil spirits have much
control over common matter or can produce powerful
physical manifestations; but we do not think that this
will prove to be the case. Even through the worst of
mediums, messages of the highest purity and spirituality
have occasionally been given; nay, there is the
strongest evidence that at times the true likenesses of
departed relatives of sitters have been given through
Buguet himself, so that the real thing to be done is to
ascertain why good influences act at one time and bad
ones at another, and what can be done to destroy the
power of mischief of the latter. In examining these
things, circumstances occur at times calculated to appal
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
JtfNE 25, 1875.
the stoutest heart, but it should he remembered that in
investigating the truths of nature from a good motive
the individual cannot possibly be hurt, even though he
walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and
be attacked by all the powers of the infernal regions.
Spiritualism is an unpopular subject, and nearly all
who have to do with it suffer more or less, so far as
this world is concerned, yet if everything were true
and sound inside the movement, worldly sacrifices would
be felt to be but of trifling moment. But when to foes
without are superadded traitors within, the position is
all the more disheartening, so the recent examples in
Prance and America of mediums adding by imposture
to their real manifestations demand close attention; the
causes of these dangers from within should be traced
to their roots, and precautions should be taken to pre¬
vent such injuries in the future.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXV.
[Imperator having been absent, I asked some questions as
to the cause, and was told that he had other work, not in
this world, which had detained him. He was able, he
said, to influence me without actual presence with me, as I
should understand the term, but that this required the
direction of thought (so to say) to me. Preoccupation
would prevent that. And on this and other occasions he
spoke of what I may call a meeting of the spirits for
solemn adoration, and prayer, and praise, and intercession.
More questions elicited amongst other answers the follow¬
ing on Oct. 12, 1873 :—]
We had betaken ourselves to prayer and intercession,
and had withdrawn for awhile from the cares and
anxieties which beset a mission to your nether
sphere, into the peaceful seclusion and harmonious at¬
mosphere of the sphere of adoration. It is well that
we refresh ourselves at times with rest and the society
of the blessed lest we fail and faint in our work; lest
we grow sad and weary in spirit, and cease to labour
with zeal and success.
Ah! ye who in your earth-life have toiled among
the lanes and alleys of your crowded cities, who have
trodden the haunts of vice in the mission of mercy, who
have breathed the stifling air fever, laden and noisome
in its impurity; who have watched the scenes of
misery and sin,1 and have felt yourselves powerless to
alleviate, much more to remove distress and want—ye
may know what are the feelings with which we minister
amongst you. You have felt sick at heart, or you have
pondered over the ignorance and folly and vice which
you have no means of removing. You have felt pros¬
trate with association with poverty and crime, and mind
and body has wavered under the thankless toil. Yet
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will he remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
what do you see and feel compared with what we do ?
You are apt to think of us as mysterious far-off beings
who have no interest in your lives, no knowledge of your
miseries, and no share in the troubles that beset you.
You do not understand that we can enter into your
feelings and know the hidden griefs that vex you, even
more really than your fellow man can. You think of
us as dissociated from earth, whereas we have very real
knowledge alike of its sorrows and its delights. And
you fancy that the miseries, physical and spiritual,
which crowd around the lives of some are beyond our
ken. It is far otherwise. We see far more clearly
than you the causes that produce sorrow, the tempta¬
tions that beset the criminal, the miseries that drive to
despair, the hordes of the undeveloped who throng
around and tempt to vice and sin. Our view is not
alone of material misery, but of spiritual temptation;
not alone of the sorrows that meet the eye of sense,
but of the hidden grief of which man knows nothing.
Do not fancy that we are unable to see and to know
your sorrows and crimes, nor that we can mix with your
people, and breathe the atmosphere of your world
without drinking in somewhat of its curse.
What is the contrast from your life to that of the
outcast in the noisome atmosphere of some foul den in a
back alley of your crowded cities—the home of misery
and crime—compared with that which strikes cold and
chilling on us as we come to your lower spheres ! We
come from the land of light and purity and beauty,
wherein is naught that is unclean, unholy, or impure ;
from a scene blurred with no disfigurement, where- is no
shadow of darkness—nothing but radiance and un¬
spotted purity. We leave the society of the perfected,
and the atmosphere in which dwells peace; we quit
the light and love, the harmony and adoration of the
spheres, and we descend to your cold earth, to a clime
of darkness and despair ; to an atmosphere of repulsion
and sorrow; to an air heavy with misery and guilt;
to a people disobedient, unbelieving, steeped in ma¬
terialism, and dead to spirit influence; to a world
crowded thick with vice, surrounded by the spirits of
the undeveloped, and deaf to the voice of God. We
quit the home where God’s light and truth prevail, for
the outer darkness of your earth, where only the faintest
glimmer of spirit truth from circles rare and few greets
our eyes. Harmony and peace we exchange for
turbulence and discord, for war and turmoil; the
society of the pure and peaceful for the chilling com¬
pany of the sceptic and scorner, or even of the drunkard
and sensualist, the outcast and the thief. We leave
temples where we adore the God of heaven for your
nether world, where our God is unknown, and where a
being of man’s own imagining reigns in His place,
save when even that idol has been dethroned and man
has relapsed into absolute disbelief in all spirit and all
incorporeal existence.
This we do, only in most cases to find a people who
are deaf and dead to us; aye, and even those who do in
a measure listen to our words so long as they please
them, and coincide with what they have themselves
fancied—even they will turn away from following when
we would raise them to a higher level and show them
a purer light. The story of Jesus is fulfilled again.
The people will wonder at miraculous works; they will
follow so long as personal interest is excited and
personal curiosity gratified; but when we raise them
from that level, when we cut out the egotistic element,
nd deal with eternal and imperial facts, they turn
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
back. They are not able to receive what is too high
for them. And so the designs of God are thwarted,
and the benefits which we are commissioned to bestow
are cast aside with thanklessness; and the chilling
sense of threatened failure is added to our sorrow. So
it is; and we withdraw at times for rest and refresh¬
ment, and return with some of the harmony of the
spheres to cheer and comfort us in the midst of our
labours in a cheerless world, and among a thankless
people.'
[/ had not received a communication before which so
savoured of pure human weakness, almost of the tone of
despair. There had before been a tone of dignity which
seemed to be above that of earth. I remarked this, and
it was replied:—]
We complain, but we do not faint. Association with
you and with your surroundings causes us to imbibe
somewhat of the tone of your mind. We have said
what we have said that you may know that we sacrifice
somewhat, and that we are amenable to the same feel¬
ings which sway you. We suffer mental agony and
spiritual distress. We feel pangs as real as those which
wring the hearts of men. Were we not (as you say)
human in our sympathies, we could not enter into your
necessities. You will know too, one day, that by a
law as yet unknown to you, the spirit returning to
earth takes on much of the pure human tone which it
loses when absent. It becomes assimilated to earth
and earthly ideas.
[The advice to refrain from seeHng too frequent com¬
munication, and to ponder the past, was repeated. The
production of physical phenomena in excess was said to be
dangerous for me, the drain on the vital power being too
great. ■ Above dll, I was warned not to join mixed circles,
except in cases of necessity, as for the observing of pheno¬
mena which I wished to describe in print. Moderation in
all things was urged, in work as well as other things, and
reflection and rest encouraged. Wj did not omit sitting,
but did not meet so frequently as before. It was noticeable
that great efforts were made to bring home evidence of
identity. One very striking case occurred [Oct. 14] thus.
A spirit who had long communicated with us was cross-
examined by one of our circle from a book which recorded
some facts in his life. The book had lately been published,
and no one of us except the questioner had seen it. The
names and dates had got jumbled in his head, and it was
most striking to find the unseen intelligence correcting
every mistake, refusing flatly and persistently to acquiesce
in an error, and even spelling out words that had been
mispronounced.
The sounds made were most expressive of annoyance,
irritation, and vexatian. The corrections were rapped out
with the greatest promptness before a question was com¬
plete, and in all cases with literal exactness. It was
impossible to doubt that one was dealing with an entity
whose individuality was as strong as ever, whose memory
was by no means impaired, and who had lost nothing of
the energy that characterised him in his embodied state. I
refer to that evening the growth in my mind of a strong
conviction that the intelligences who communicated were
really the persons they pretended to be. . The accent of
denial was so perfect, the irritable rejoinder and correction
were so human, so natural, that I do not believe a per senator
could have done it, or would have thought of such a subtle
trail. On the following morning I questioned on the
subject:—]
I was much struck by your corrections last night.
Th« book was wrong, and imperfect in many ways. I
June 25, 1875.
did make acquaintance with before he became my
pupil, and I told you truly that I studied at Paris.
[/ don't doubt it. You were evidently in earnest, and
quite angry.
It is provoking to me to be questioned wrongly, and
from imperfect information imperfectly remembered. I
knew what I said.
[I can't affect to be sorry; for it brought out the best
proof of identity I have had yet. Of course we only value
it as such.]
Yes. But you watch for an opportunity of entangling.
[Oh, no ! I only want proof .]
You have proof which it would be hard to increase.
W. G.
[Were it not that this course of teaching would lose
continuity by interruption, I could point out many proofs
which occurred at this time. I pass on to detail the
teaching as I received it.]
THE PERSECUTION OE SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—My previous letters will have prepared your readers
for a very mockery of justice in the trial of our friends
Leymarie and Firman before the Seventh Chamber of Cor¬
rectional Police, but not for the length to which it has been
carried. In my last I wrote—“ I do not regard Leymarie as
being in serious danger; he is accused only on the word of
Buguet, and in view of the abundant proofs of the mendacity
of the latter, I cannot conceive how Leymarie can possibly be
convicted on the statements of such a patent liar.” And yet
Leymarie, that devoted and conscientious Spiritualist, suc¬
cessor of Allan Kardec as editor of La Revue Spirite, and
managing director of the Societe des Spirites, has been
sentenced to a year’s imprisonment, and Buguet himself to no
more: Firman, to six months’ imprisonment. Leymarie’s
crime is the prominence of his position in Spiritualism, his
zeal and activity, and the usefulness of his labours, editorial
and other, to the cause to which his soul is devoted—off with
head! I have no doubt but that his enemies would have been
glad to off with it in a more literal sense if it had been in their
power. Happily, imprisonment for opinion and its propaga¬
tion is too common in France, and has been tbe penalty paid
by too many honourable men for the social crime of having a
conscience and a fearless spirit, to involve any real disgrace.
Lachaud’s speech in his defence was one of the most brilliant,
powerful, and convincing efforts of forensic pleading I ha\e
ever listened to. His thesis was simple. Leymarie was a sin¬
cere zealot, deceived by Buguet, and honestly parading in hi^
Review, as proofs of his doctrine and cause, the spirit photo¬
graphs produced by the latter, in hundreds of which the
resemblance was recognised and attested by the sitters. He
had no complicity with Buguet, and it is impossible to con¬
demn him on the authority of such a manifest liar saying
that he had. This, I repeat, was a simple thing, and it was
developed in a most masterly manner by Lachaud, and with
a certain dramatic action whose only fault is that of being a
little too theatrical. He exhibited the man living an honest
and honourable life, labouring from rise of sun till the hours of
sleep on the merest pittance of income; blameless in all
domestic relations as husband and father, working off a
balance of debt resting on him from an old failure in business
which had grown solely out of a too confiding character, and
having, with aid from his family, nearly accomplished it, and
allowing himself no personal indulgence till he should have
fully done so. He then showed how he had not accepted
Buguet’s spirit photographs until he had put them and him
through a series of test investigations with the aid of persons
the most competent to detect fraud or error; and, long after
having thus become himself satisfied, continuing to pester
Buguet for further testing trials to satisfy other friends,
photographers and others. He referred to the hundreds of
letters of attestation of resemblances from sovereign princes
down to the humbler strata of society, all of which continued
to confirm Leymarie in his sincere conviction of the genuine¬
ness of Buguet’s pictures. And finally he produced a series
of letters from Buguet himself to him, from January, 1874,
down to April 21, 1875, the very day before his arrest, on the
face of which stood manifest, as though in large print,
June 25,' 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
Leymarie’e perfect good faith and total absence of any sort
of complicity in deception. He showed Buguet’s mendacity
in regard to the mediumship, which he now repudiated
his haying ever even asserted, and this on the face of his own
letters. And yet with all this, and after all this, Buguet and
Leymarie are sentenced in common iox escroquerie (swindling),
and each to the penalty of a year’s imprisonment 1 It is
enough to take one’s breath away in the telling of it. I have
never known anything more monstrous in the worst courts of
injustice.
The production of Buguet’s letters was a surprise. The
Procureur-Substitut de la B6publique, M. Dubois (a man of
first-rate ability, whose speech also was, artistically, a master¬
piece) , intimated a complaint that these had not been pro¬
duced before, on the instruction. Lachaud retorted that he was
the judge when and how to produce his arguments, and that
he rather liked to reserve his best for the close. I am sure
that there were few among the most hostile hearers in the
court (the middle passage of which was crowded with lawyers
in their black gowns, and with those becoming round, hat-
topped black caps which are so much more dignified and
graceful than your absurd grey horsehair wigs) who did not feel
sure of a triumphant acquittal of Leymarie after this production
of Buguet’s own letters. But it is ill reckoning without the
host. The judges remained out in consultation over half an
hour, but when on their return the President (named Millet)
read the lengthy judgment, it was clear that it had been pre¬
pared beforehand, since it contained no allusion to the im¬
portant incident of the letters.
Leymarie intended to appeal to the Oour d'Appel, where it
was hoped that this judgment would be reversed, but he gave
up the idea for reasons I will state further on.
There was only one material point wanting from Laohaud’s
argument, and here we see the influence, upon the best of
advocates, of a want of knowledge and belief in that which
constitutes the very basis of the case to be treated. He is not
a Spiritualist, and admitted his non-belief, while treating the
doctrine and the school with great respect by reason of the
millions of its adepts, and the high rank in science, philo¬
sophy, literature, general intelligence, and social standing of
so many amongst them. Not being a Spiritualist, I suppose,
is why he could not argue what was the truth, and what would
have materially strengthened Leymarie’s case, namely, that
Buguet’s mediumship was a reality, and many of his photo¬
graphs, probably all those of the period before he slid into
his later system of fraud, were genuine and true. He did not
establish this discrimination, but tacitly accepted the theory
of the prosecution, that the draped mannikin and boxful of
small cartoon heads which lay conspicuous on a table in front
of the bench represented the whole of Buguet’s photograph¬
ing from beginning to end. Perhaps he too, like Firman’s
counsel, M. Carraby, thought it would be hopeless and useless
anyhow to present that distinction to the inaccessible minds
of the judges, and that it might do more practical harm
than, good, even if the lawyer’s own mind could have per¬
mitted him to go himself the length of the truth of the reality of
this strange thing—Spiritualism. Nor did M. Lachaud present
the material fact of the triumphant acquittal, in America, of
Mumler, the first of the spirit photographers, after a severe
struggle in court, on this very same issue of imputed swindling
because he professed to produce photographs of the departed
friends of his sitters,—an acquittal obtained after full proof
of the genuineness of the likenesses, and Mumler’s own readi¬
ness at any time to go to other photographers’ studios and
produce them there on their own glasses under their closest
scrutiny of every step of the process. The question of spirit
photography has not been tried this time, as it was in America.
It was not defended, but was allowed to go by default after
being betrayed by Buguet himself, under influences of which
we shall probably never know the whole secret, whatever may
be the different suppositions of different minds.
You will have seen by the reports of the trial, imperfect as
they are, that Buguet made but a poor fist of it, when asked
by the President of the Court what he had to say to those
letters. He said only that three-fourths of them were written
by his caissiere (a bright and clean young woman), and that
“ we all believed that Leymarie knew,” as though the other
fourth of them at least were not written by himself, and as
though the said three-fourths, written by his confidential
corresponding clerk, must not have been shown to him, and
have correctly conveyed his mind. And as though his saying
that “ they all believed Leymarie to have known ” was any proof
against his own letters showing that they had not so believed,
and that they were themselves confirming Leymarie in the
contrary idea. And yet that shambling explanation of those
letters seems to have been satisfactory to French judges.
Let me add one circumstance calculated a little to astonish
your English and English-speaking readers. I have mentioned
above that Buguet’s own letters to Leymarie proved conclu¬
sively the total absence of complicity on his part (and that
was the only charge), and the bar present regarded Leymarie
as virtually acquitted after they were presented and read by
Laohaud, and passed up to the judges. Yet they not only did
not prevent his condemnation, but probably aggravated his
sentence, because they certainly aggravated his judges. It
certainly may have been provoking to see produced unexpected
evidence which stamped with absurdity a predetermined
sentence, but to us foreigners it seems an odd modus operandi
of the judicial mind that the accused should be hit so much
the harder because he has had the insolence of proving his
innocence by documents not before communicated to the
prosecution, nor submitted to the tender mercies of a juge
d'instruction. I now think it was a mistake of calculation and
tactics on the part of Leymarie not to have produced these
letters to ih.e juge d'instruction. They might have compelled
the latter to discharge the case as being unsustainable. But
the simple fact that he had thought it unwise to do so, and
more prudent to reserve them for the public trial, serves to illus¬
trate the evil of this French system of a first trial by private
inquisition called the instruction, with no help of counsel, and
no check on the omnipotent and irresponsible inquisitor, whose
hostile conclusions can then be overcome at the public trial
only by what I before have called a small miracle.
You will naturally presume, as a matter of course, that
Leymarie will appeal to the Cour d’Appel; and in his place I
certainly would do so at all hazards. Such was, indeed, his
first intention, but I believe the advice of friends has induced
him to change it. It is represented to him that the presiding
judge of that court would be worse hands for him to fall into
than the two who have thus far dealt with him, and with
Spiritualism in his person, that he might go further and fare
worse ; and they have a way in this country of discouraging
appeals by aggravating the first sentence if they do not reverse
it to the benefit of the accused. Innocence, therefore, some¬
times thinks it better to bear the present ills we know than
fly to others that we know not of. The reasoning in Firman’s
case is the same; and a fortiori as his term of sentence is only
six months. The fines imposed are 500 francs for Leymarie,
and 300 for Firman, with the contrainte par corps fixed at four
months for each, which means that period of additional im¬
prisonment in the event of their not paying the fines and costs.
Those of Leymarie will of course be, and those of Firman are
already provided for ; for it is another of the little niceties of
the French way of doing these things, that when friends come
forward to give bail for an accused person they do not receive
back their deposited money integrally if the accused does not
run away but remains to bear the brunt. A fixed part of it
is retained to cover fines and costs in the event of a con¬
demnation. In Firman’s case it was stipulated that only
5,500 out of the 6,000 francs were to be returned. This is
pleasant for bailing friends, who have nothing to do with the
offence charged, and encouraging to them and others on other
occasions. But what right have they to believe in or sym¬
pathise with the innocence of wretches whom police authority
suspects and accuses ? We speak of civilised nations as being
policees. France certainly does seem to be a policed nation
with a vengeance.
In Firman’s case, besides Buguet’s charge against him also
of complicity in his frauds, there was the further charge,
resting on the testimony of Madame Huguet, of fraudulent
personation by him of the materialised little Indian spirit.
Besides the essential impossibility of those judges (or perhaps
any judges who had never seenit with their own eyes) ever being
brought to believe in materialisation at all, so that to them it
was necessarily imposture ipso facto, there were strong appear¬
ances against him. Strong, but false, as could easily be
proved to the satisfaction of those who are in a position to
bring some antecedent knowledge of the facts of Spiritualism
to the understanding of the explanation of them. The expla¬
nation is, that Madame Huguet herself pulled or knocked
Firman to the ground in the dark, as she rushed out of her
hiding-place; that the little Indian thereupon turned back
into the cabinet and instantly disappeared, and, as he has
since said, had no time to make his shawl invisible, which
therefore dropped on Firman as he was there on the ground
under the angry hands of the lady, and so was deemed by the
spectators to have been worn by him. Now, against the theory
of the prosecution, and in support of the explanation, are the
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
following extreme improbabilities, the combination of which
raises the improbability into impossibility :—
1. It is positively true, on the testimony of four of the best
of witnesses—Madame de Yeh, Mrs. Watkins, her mother, the
Count de Bullet, and Mr. Gledstanes—that on other occasions
(several times before, and four times since the Madame Huguet
scene) Firman and the little Indian were not one, but twain,
both being seen together, Firman asleep, and the materialised
spirit by his 'side, and twice floating in the air, so as even to
touch the ceiling with his feather head-dress. Why then
should Firman, on this occasion, have had recourse to an un¬
necessary disguise, at the risk of having his person searched
before going into the cabinet ? and a shawl, a long piece of
muslin, a mask, feather head-dress, and dark gloves must
have suspiciously stuffed out his person.
2. The little Indian was standing at the table in front of the
half-opened curtain when he was visible to the spectators, his
body being at least partly outside. If it was he who was
seized by the lady, that operation must have been seen by
them, which is not pretended, and it is extremely improbable
that it should not have been seen; while the fact that it was
inside the small recess serving as a cabinet that the lady and
her victim were found, corresponds only to the theory of the
explanation.
B. The spectators rushed immediately forward with light.
The whole scene could only have been a matter of seconds of
time. Within those few instants, how could Firman have
disposed of a mask, metal head-band, feather head-dress and
dark gloves, and moreover also have unwound a yard and
a half of muslin from round his body and taken off a shawl,
while under the lady’s hands, without any of these operations
having been seen ?
4. If Firman was believed to have worn and concealed these
objects, mask, glove, &c., why were he and his wife allowed to
depart without having been made to give them up ? No one
pretends to have seen anything of any of them, yet they
would have been indeed pieces de conviction. Nor was any¬
thing of the kind found by the police when they arrested
Firman, and made a search so minute that scarcely a pin
could have escaped them.
Ydur readers can judge for themselves of the strength of the
case in Firman’s favour, which could have been presented by
the combination of these improbabilities. Yet of what avail
would anything have been before judges whose minds were so
hopelessly prepossessed that it was possible for them to con¬
demn Leymarie? Independently of his own want of belief
and knowledge of Spiritualism, M. Garraby was satisfied that
any attempt to sustain the reality of materialisation would ag¬
gravate the sentence, which he regarded as inevitable. I had
contended earnestly against this sacrifice of the cause of truth,
and it had been almost settled at one time that M. Carraby
would not plead the case, but that I should do so, with a
special permission from the Court. We compromised on the
ground that while he should plead his legal argument and
extenuating circumstances, Firman should read (or have read
for him) a statement of his own, from the Spiritualist point
of view; and that paper I had prepared, and handed it to
M. Carraby. But at the last moment M. Carraby was so
convinced against the wisdom of that course, or any assertion
at all of the truth as we understand it, that he concluded not
to carry that argument into effect. The result certainly
justifies the sagacity of his judgment, since Firman gets off
with only half of Leymarie’s sentence. When Leymarie’s
year was announced by the president, I certainly expected two
years for Firman. Of course, acting on this line of policy,
which preferred his client’s safety to his doctrine, M. Carraby
made no use of any of our evidences of the reality of mate¬
rialisation. He spoke with admirable talent, from his point of
view, though I could not concur with him that the fact of self
personation, which was instantly admitted by not being con¬
tested, did not constitute legal escroquerie. He used with
effect Firman’s very creditable letter, in which he declined, as
follows, to avail himself of the permission offered him by his
friends to go away, and forfeit the 6,000 francs of bail they
had supplied:—
Tuesday, June IS, 1875.
Dear Sir,—It Is needless for me to say how grateful I am for the kind
and generous permission contained in the above letter, which I think it my
duty to return. I thank you and my other friends from the bottom of my
heart for the kind feeling in favour of my dear little wife, which I presume
to have been the principal motive of the generous offer, and also for the
confidence in my innocence (which, at least, you may entirely depend
upon, for it is not undeserved); but I could not avail myself of it without
forfeiting my own self-respect, as well as the money of my generous
friends. I again thank you"and them a thousand times, and remain your
devoted and obedient servant, Alfd. H. Firman.
I do not wish to be understood in this letter as meaning to
impeach the judicial honesty of the judges who have thus sen¬
tenced two innocent men. An injustice which I deem truly
monstrous has been done, but vehemence of prejudice against
Spiritualism, pre-condemnation resulting from the report of
the instruction, and ignorance of novel truth, familiar now to
Spiritualists but inconceivable to the judges, sufficiently
explain their course and their judgment. Nor do I see any
particular evidence to connect the Church with this prosecu¬
tion, or persecution (though most of our friends here entertain
no doubt on that point), except in so far as the recent mande-
ment of the Archbishop of Toulouse may possibly have stimu¬
lated the action of the police and tended to embitter the
minds of the judges. J. L. O’Sullivan.
The Suicide of Animals.—A recent number of the
Revue Spirite contains an interesting article on the “ Suicide
of Animals.” It states: ” The evening before last a little dog
was seen to descend to the banks of the river near the Pont-
Royal, and eagerly look about as if interrogating the waters.
Presently the form of a man was seen, but soon sank out of
sight. The dog no longer hesitated, but swam to the spot,
dived down, returned, dived again, and returned no more. He
had joined his master.” “ Madame B., of Rue St. Anne, had
a dog she dearly loved, and who dearly loved his mistress.
Madame B. died, and the utmost care could not assuage the
grief of her pet. Plaintive cries and a refusal of food ex¬
pressed his sorrow, and when one day he was in the lap of
Madame B. ’s niece at an open window, he leaped out and was
killed.” Montaigne records two cases : “ When Lysimachus
died his dog obstinately remained with him on his bed, re¬
fusing food; and when the body of the king was burned his
dog threw himself into the fire and perished there with his
master. The dog of a man named Pyrrhus did the same.”
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The ordinary monthly meet¬
ing of the Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism was held at the Rooms in Navarino-road,
Dalston, on Friday evening last, the 18th instant. Present:
Mr. A. Ferguson Black, in the chair; Mr. Thos. Blyton, Mrs.
Amelia Corner, Mr.R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and Mrs. M. Theresa
Wood. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and
confirmed. Letters were read from Miss Kislingbury, intro¬
ducing M. Meleneowich, a gentleman from Roumania, desirous
of being present at one of the ordinary seances. A letter was also
read from Mrs. Parkes calling attention to Dr. Sexton’s Sunday
evening lectures. The cash accounts showed a balance in
hand of £4 5s. 4|d. Letters were read from Dr. Geo. Sexton,
Mr. Thos. Shorter, and Mr. F. R. Young, accepting invitations
of honorary membership issued to them; and from Mr. J.
Burns and Mr. R. Cogman, declining the same. Dr. Sexton,
Mr. Thcs. Shorter, Mr. F. R. Young, Mrs. Sexton, Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Cook, Mrs. J. J. Morse, and Mr. R. Cocker were then
formally elected honorary members. It was also resolved to
invite Dr. Monck to accept honorary membership. The pre¬
sentation to the library, by the Countess of Caithness, of two
copies of The Honeymoon, was reported, and a vote of thanks
for the kind present accorded the donor and Count de Medina
Pomar. A letter from Mr. J. J. Morse, dated 31st May, was
read, in which Mr. Morse offered to deliver a lecture upon his
experiences in America, on his return to England from that
country, gratuitously, for the benefit of the Association. A
photograph of Mr. J. N. T. Brigham, inspirational speaker of
America, and two copies of the Banner of Light newspaper
containing an article on Mediumship, were also sent over by
Mr. Morse. Mr. Morse’s offer to deliver a lecture was ac¬
cepted with thanks. The hon. secretary reported correspond¬
ence with Mrs. Showers upon the subject of her promised
paper, the reading of which was postponed. An application
for-membership from Mr. J. Tozeland was accepted, and that
gentleman formally elected. An intimation from Mr. A. W.
Greene of his wish to resign his membership was accepted with
“ deep regret.i’ It was moved by Mr. Thds. Blyton, seconded
by Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and resolved: “ That, with the
view of further promoting the objects of the Association, it be
recommended to the members to institute regular seances at
their private residences, and to invite such of their fellow-
members as they may desire to join their circles. The results
obtained at such seances to be reported to the Council from
time to time, and' the fullest information to be given in all
cases.” Arrangements having been made for the preparation
of the report and audit of the half-year’s accounts, in view of
the tenth half-yearly general meeting to be held on 29th July
next, the meeting closed.
June 25, 1875. THE SPIHITtJALIST. 807
THE TRIAL OF LEYMARIE AND FIRMAN BEFORE
THE TRIBUNAL CORRECTIONNEL.
PRESIDENT—M. MILLET.
Translated from the “ Gazette des Tribunaux" and 1‘Journal des
Tribunaux.”
The Court was crowded to overflowing. The official account
of the trial is prefaced by the following remarks :—
“ The sect of the Spiritists is very numerous, and it must be
said that the greater number of its adepts are incontestably of
good faith, a faith which amounts to enthusiasm, and often to a
blind fanaticism. This is sufficient explanation of the unusual
thronging of the Court, the crowds who attended being con¬
stituted principally of persons who considered their presence
at this curious trial as an act of faith. Their faces, for the
most part honest and intelligent, were expressive of curiosity
and of sincere and fervent belief.
“ In the face of definite statements and indisputable confes¬
sions on the part of the accused, of frauds the more unpar¬
donable that they have trafficked in the most sacred
sentiments which affect the heart of man, the pious and
dearest memories of relations and friends, their faith in
Spiritism remains unshaken. Passing through the crowd on
our way to the triarchamber, we heard this chosen public, in
a style not the less decorous for its ardour, hurling anathemas
against the photographer, convicted, without possibility of
escape, in the very act of perpetrating trickery—‘He is a
traitor, a false brother; he has sold himself to the Jesuits.
What have the Jesuits to do with this affair ? They have
plenty to occupy them elsewhere, although nothing is too
small to be neglected by them.’
“ We knew, therefore, that we had to do with an excep¬
tionally nervous audience, although, by a wise precaution,
very few ladies were admitted into the Court.
“ Nothing is more respectable than faith, however absurd
its object; but we have found this an infallible criterion; that
though it is certain that there are unobserved phenomena in
the order of nature, yet, in order to discover whether those
concerned with it are of good faith, we have only to ask
whether they derive a pecuniary profit from it; in which case,
the most marvellous antidote, as we are about to see, is the
intervention of the police.”
The prosecution was conducted by M. Dubois, who took the
place of prosecutor for the Republic. The defence was con¬
ducted by Messrs. Craquelin, Lachaud, and Carraby.
The prosecutor for the Republic opened the case by giving
an account of the manner in which Buguet had produced his
photographs, stating that public attention had first been called
to the fact by the accounts published in the Revue Spirite.
M. Lombard, an officer of the peace, who had seen these
accounts, and had been commissioned to make photographic
experiments in the service of the Prefecture of Police, had
arrived at the conclusion that the photographing of the pre¬
tended ghosts did not take place at the same time as that of
the living persons also photographed on the plate, but that the
effects were the result of two successive operations. On the
22nd of April, 1875, M. Clement, Commissioner of Police,
accompanied by M. Lombard and the Chief Inspector, de
Balia, went to Buguet’s for the sake of confirming their sus¬
picions, having received a commission of inquiry from a
magistrate. The result of their visit was that Buguet revealed
to them the whole of his proceedings. Messrs. Lombard and
de Balia first presented themselves, and asked the accused if
he could produce the image of de Balia’s father. The photo¬
grapher replied in the affirmative, placed him on the platform,
withdrew for a few minutes, and returned bringing a closed
frame containing the plate prepared with collodion. He
placed it in the camera and arranged M. de Balia, telling him
to think of his father ; then, having uncapped the camera, he
leaned his head against the wall, pretending to make, an evoca¬
tion. At this moment M. Lombard interfered, and, making
known his office, asked Buguet if the plate did not already
bear an image taken elsewhere. After some hesitation, Buguet
declared that it bore an image prepared a few minutes before
in another room. The police commissioner then presented
himself, and invited the inspector of the photographic service
to proceed upon the plate with the operations necessary to
develops the picture, after taking it from the frame. This
resulted in the appearance of the image of a man and that of
a woman, both somewhat indistinct. Buguet explained this
double apparition by relating that, although a single spirit was
generally asked for, he occasionally fabricated two at once, as
a surprise to the sitter. He further confessed that he made
use of a dummy, to which he could adapt any number of
heads, from which he photographed a figure on the plate in a
different room from that in which the sitter was ordinarily
taken. He then showed the officer a wooden box containing
240 photographed heads, of sitters of both sexes and of various
ages, which had been cut off the original pictures and pasted
upon cardboard after having been enlarged. Another dummy
was used for producing ghosts of children; wings and false
beards were also discovered, also a lyre and a guitar. Besides
that, they found at the house of M. Piedefort, clockmaker, a
musical-box which the Count de Bullet had given to Buguet,
and which was then being repaired,
In the statement of the case for the prosecution, it was also
asserted that one day Buguet was informed that his assistant
Blot had told some of his tricks to a third person. A certain
Gillard, to whose ears they had come, related them to
Leymarie. Buguet replied that his assistant was a bungler
(un maladroit), for being in his employ, he could have no in¬
terest in injuring him. From that time forward M. Leymarie
ceased to inquire into the mode of operation of the accused.
The latter, having one day alluded to this incident, Leymarie
replied, “ Leave that alone, and take no notice of it; they had
plenty to say against Allan Kardeo ; that has not prevented
his doctrine from prospering.” M. Leymarie was besides
warned of the suspicious character of Buguet’s operations by
his own clerk, Jouffroy, and by a letter addressed to him by
M. Dumas de Setif, but he took care not to inquire, in order
that he might, in case of a failure, make an excuse of his
ignorance. It is also important to remark that he was present
on the day when Berthall exclaimed in Buguet’s studio that
the whole thing was jugglery, and Leymarie remained silent.
The prosecutor further stated that Leymarie had been
actively associated in the doings of Buguet, and that he would
prove in accordance with the declaration of Buguet that Ley¬
marie had not acted in good faith, he being aware of the dis¬
honesty of his proceedings. As a proof of this, he showed that
Leymarie had received information from the assistants of
Buguet as to the manner in which the pictures were produced,
and added that Leymarie refused to believe them, or to inquire
any further in the matter. Further, on the 7th of May, when
Leymarie was being taken with Buguet in a carriage to the
Palais de Justice, on learning that Buguet had confessed, he
exclaimed, “You did not say you were a medium. You were
wrong. I shall maintain that I am one.” He added that
“ they had been arrested by the Jesuits.”
The President ordered the witnesses to be called. There
were twenty-seven for the prosecution and twenty-eight for
the defence.
THE EXAMINATION OP BUGUET.
President—You have been taking spiritual photographs for
several years, but you have given yourself up to it more par¬
ticularly since 1873. Who first gave you the idea of doing
spirit photographs ?
Defendant—One of my friends. He took me to Dr. Puell’s,
who had already given his attention to it.
Q. Who was the friend? was it not M. Scipion, the actor?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Did you not make some experiments when Messrs.
Flammarion and Bertall were present?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. When you made these experiments, was it not their
impression that it was simply an artificial proceeding, and
that there was nothing supernatural about it ?
A. Yes, that was always their general idea ; besides, I had
never made a secret of it.
Q. Who introduced you to Leymarie ?
A. He came from Dr. Puell’s. M. Leymarie asked me if I
knew how to do spirit photographs; he then told me that he
had had some done in America.
Q. Did he not inquire into or interfere in the proceeding ?
A. Never.
Q. He simply said, then, “ Make spirit photographs.” It
was, in fact, a commercial contract ? He did not ask you in
what manner you arrived at your results ?
A. M. Leymarie was intelligent enough to know that I could
not continually have spirits at my disposal.
Q. So you are simply a photographer, making a living out
of spirits as others make a living out of faces, and you have
no pretension to supernaturalism. At that time you rented
apartments on the Boulevard Montmartre. Were you not
afraid of not being able to pay your rent ?
A. It is true that I was rather hard up; but that was
the opening of my house.
Q. You were therefore in want of money ?
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
A* I told M. Leymarie that I wanted 3,500 fr&ncs. He lent
me them in, the name of the “ Socitttf Spirite.” I had one
year to repay them.
Q. You appear to have had a regular establishment. You
had a female clerk who had a delicate business to perform.
She questioned the customers who came. She asked them
the age and sex of the persons whose spirits were to be
evoked ?
A. That only happened very rarely.
Q. What did you tell the persons who came ?
A. I let them believe what they liked, but I never told any
one I was a medium.
Q. You wrote it ?
A. Excuse me, I simply answered letters which were ad¬
dressed to me.
Q. Besides your clerk, you had two assistants, one named
Vander, the other Blot ? You had one room for the sitters
and a second room where you made the preliminary ex¬
posures of the spirits. In short, you performed two distinct
operations ?
A. It was so, I acknowledge it.
Q. Previously, you had another mode of proceeding ?
A. Yes, by making my assistants sit for the ghosts.
Q. After that you used cardboard heads; you thought that
your assistants were not sufficiently numerous to give diver¬
sity to the types that you had to produce. (To the usher)
—Open that box. (To the defendant)—These are the spirits
you evoked. (To the usher)—Give me a dozen of those heads.
(To the defendant)—See, here is a woman’s head, a bearded
face, a military head; there is variety enough to satisfy the
curiosity of customers. It was Yander who used to arrange
the pretended ghost ? ,
A. Yes, sir.
Q. But what was the individual doing who desired the ghost ?
A. He was waiting in the other room ?
Q. Did you not tell the ardent Spiritists that you were pre¬
paring an evocation ?
A. Yes.
, Q. And you told him to unite his thoughts with yours ?
A. Yes.
Q. You placed your head in your hands ?
A. Yes.
Q. And you raised your arms to heaven ?
A. 0, no, I never did that.
Q. Leymarie sent you a great many people ?
A. Yes, a few Spiritists.
Q. Did not Mdlle. de Yeh come out of curiosity ? On that
day you were successful by chance ? She recognised a friend
whom she had lost a short time previously; that was the effect
of chance ?
A. Yes, it was the effect of chance.
Q. A grocer at Montreuil sent you twenty francs to produce
the spirit of a child he had just lost. The poor man received
a photograph of a man fifty years old. He said that the
spirit which had shown itself was too old. He wrote to you
again, sending another twenty francs, and told you, “ Tell me
the hour of your evocation, that I may join my prayers to
yours.” You wrote to him. That brought you in forty
francs from that man. But you failed again, worse than
before. The third time he sent you another twenty francs,
still insisting—“ Name the hour; I will pray with you. I
am certain that the shade of my son will appear; ” and
he added this detail, “ That dear child; he knew so many
things ” ?
A. By God, Mr. President, I never deceived any one. I
never pretended anything.
Q. Tell me, however, during all these operations, did not
Leymarie try to learn your secret; did he not ask you what
was the use of these photographs with which you varied the
faces of the ghosts ?
A. I do not know. I can assert nothing on that point.
EXA.MIKATION OT LEYMARIE.
Q. You were formerly a tailor; you were unfortunate in
business; what led you from the sale of coats to Spiritism and
the sale of spirit photographs ?
A. I was interested in science before entering into business.
I had an uncle who proposed to me to take his business and
to marry his daughter. But even then, in 1867,1 found occu¬
pations more suited to my intelligence, and I became a fervent
Spiritist.
Q. Is there a Spiritist library ?
A. Yes.
Q. Managed by whom ? •
A. By me.
Q. How did you know Allan Kardec ?
A. He gave lectures at Hue Sainte Anne, where accounts
were given of spirit phenomena. That was how I came to
know him.
Q. His real name was Rivail ?
A. Yes, sir; he was a literary man. He had written many
works, which were eagerly read by young Parisians.
Q. It appears that, in the interest of the Spiritist library,
you got photographs from America ?
A. There were many persons in France who subscribed to
the American joufhals, and there was a demand for spirit
photographs.
Q. You were not ignorant that these photographs were ob¬
tained by a material process ?
A. Mr. President, I have always been ignorant of it. We
always believed that these photographs were due to the ap¬
pearance of spirits. Buguet represented himself as a spirit
photographer, a medium, therefore we accepted him as such;
if not, we should never have gone to him. The members of
our society are absolutely disinterested.
Q. Disinterested ! I must remind you that your science is
a speculation ; your Spirits’ Booh is in its twenty-third edi¬
tion ; your Mediums’ Booh is in its twelfth edition ; Spiritual
Gospel is in its fourteenth edition. It is clear that you do not
fabricate books for nothing 1
A. Allan Kardec’s books have been translated all the world
over. The society is absolutely disinterested ; the society is
formed for the diffusion of a doctrine which is destined to
regenerate humanity;
Q. I am not discussing the doctrine of Spiritism ; I wish to
discover whether you knew of the doings of Buguet; I take
up the ground of good or bad faith. You succeeded in con¬
vincing Spiritualists that these photographs were produced by
spirits, which is false ?
A. I believe it.
Q. You often went to Buguet’s ?
A. Yes. ;
Q. You ought to have found out what his process was.
A. I did not believe he had any process. I did not suspect
him. ^ could not go to him as an inquisitor.
Q. But they say that you saw the photographed figures;
one of Buguet’s daughter you saw every day ?
A. Yes, I know M. Buguet’s children. I have often em¬
braced them; but I did not recognise them in the figures.
How should I suppose that he would use the photographs of
his children for charlatanry ?
Q. When Allan Kardec appeared on his wife’s photograph,
he held a placard in his hand, on which was some writing.
Well, that was the writing of Buguet’s clerk ?
A. I did not suspect any trickery. We thought that it was
the writing of Allan Kardec.
Q. Nevertheless, you were warned by a letter from M.
Dumas, of S6tif. Nothing availed; and your wife’s know¬
ledge of the revelations made by Blot did not enlighten you
either. From all this it must be concluded that you did not
act in good faith.
EXAMINATION OF FIRMAN.
Q. Are you a medium ?
A. Yes.
Q. Where did you learn your profession ?
A. I first felt the power at New York.
Q. It appears you have sat for a ghost t
A. Never.
The President to Buguet—Did he sit for a ghost ?
Buguet—Yes ; that is right.
Firman—I never sat for a ghost.
(). Have you not had relations with the Comte de Bullet ?
What did he give you ?
A. He gave me what he liked when he came to me. I never
charged him anything.
Q. Did you not give private seances ?
A. Yes.
Q. Did you not give public seances ?
A. Yes. '
Q. Do you not remember having seen a M. Delia, of
Bergerac ?
A. I do not know.
Q. M. Delia was at one of your seances, and there he was
made to embrace a woman with a diadem. He believes it to
have been his wife. Was it you or your wife that the un¬
fortunate man embraced ?
A. I don’t remember.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
June 25,. 1875.
Q. You are very clever at remembering nothing. One day
the Comte de Bullet went to Buguet’s, and asked him to get
the ghost of Firman, who was in Holland. And you, Buguet,
by means of a photograph that you had of Firman, were
able to produce this result ?
Buguet—Yes, sir, that was so.
To Firman—Did you not go to M. Huguet’s as a medium, to
give Spirit seances and cause supernatural appearances ?
A. I am a medium.
Q. Were you not asked to produce the little Indian ?
A. Yes. *
Q. Did not Mme. Huguet cause a hiding-place to be made in
the wall, so as to prove whether American mediums are real
mediums ?
A. I don’t know.
Q. When you were preparing to do the little Indian, did you
not hear a noise ?
A. No ; I never prepared anything, and I never heard any
noise.
Q. Well, at the moment of the little Indian’s appearance,
did not Mme. Huguet rush out upon you ?
A. I don’t remember.
Q. Then you and your wife escaped rapidly ?
Jl. No, sir, that was not so.
examination op btoubt’s assistants.
Ernest Vanderzain, assistant of Buguet, aged 25.
Q. It was your business to manufacture the ghos’t ?
A. Yes.
Q. How much were you paid ?
A. Two hundred francs per month.
Q. Did you often see Leymarie ?
A. Yes.
Q. Was he present at the operation?
A. Yes, he knew what we were about; he caught me once
with a dummy under my arm.
Alfred Blot, Buguet's Assistant, aged 19.
I knew M. Buguet’s process without knowing it. (Laughter.)
I knew he used heads, but I did not know in what way.
Q. You knew, at all events, there was nothing supernatural
in the process ?
A. Oh, certainly.
Q. Is it true that you revealed Buguet’s process ?
A. I don’t remember.
Lionie Menessier, female cleric, aged 23.
Q. How long have you been at Buguet’s ?
A. Since 1871.
Q. What did you do there ?
A. I received customers.
Q. Is that all ? What conversation did you have with them ?
A. They told me they wanted spirit photographs.
Q. Did you not ask them any questions^ whether they
wanted an old or a young man, a woman or a child ?
A. I don’t quite remember.
Q. You must have a better memory than that ?
A. No, sir, I never asked them that.
Q. Did you know Buguet’s process ?
A. No, sir.
Q, Did Leymarie know it ? did he ever mention it to you ?
A. Never.
Q. You were told to write a little placard for the picture of
Allan Kardec. The writing that Mme. Kardec took to be her
husband’s is yours, is it not ?
A. Yes.
Lachaud—Did any one dictate the words ?
Buguet—I dictated them.
COMTE DE BULLET’S EVIDENCE.
Comte de Bullet, aged forty-six, gentleman.
Q. How did you know Buguet ?
A. I saw his name in a book.
Q. In the Bevue Spirite ?
A. No, in a book by Mme. Audouard.
Q. Did Buguet produce the spirits of the persons you in¬
voked.
A. I positively recognised the portrait of my sister. I am
perfectly convinced that it is my sister.
The Prosecutor—But you have just been shown the head by
means of which the image was obtained.
Witness—That is nothing to me. (Murmurs.) The like¬
ness is incontestable; I am convinced of the truth of the
portrait.
The Prosecutor—But the witness was present during M.
Lombard’s visit, and the operation was performed before him;
M. Lombard handled the dummy in his presence.
Witness—It was not the same plate.
The President—Here is the head by means of which the
portrait of your sister was obtained.
Witness—No, that is not like my sister.
Q. Sir, it is to be feared that you are the dupe of your
hallucinations and of your ideas.
A. No.
Q. You knew Firman. Who conducted his operations ? he
or his wife ?
A. He did.
Q. Did you recognise the dead people ?
A. There were some members of my family, who are dead.
I never found any trickery in that.
Q. Have you ever seen the little Indian ?
A. No.
Q. And how much did all that cost you ?
A. I have paid 2,500 francs for spirit photographs.
Q. Did Firman ask you for money ?
A. Firman was always extremely moderate; it was I who
offered him money.
Q. Did Firman promise anything supernatural ?
A. He was simply a medium who promised nothing. I
repeat that I have never discovered any fraud.
Q. I am afraid you never would discover any.
A. I have pursued Spiritualism for a long time, and I shall
never cease to pursue it.
MISS DE VEH’S EVIDENCE. .
Marie de Veh, aged twenty.
Q. What brought you to Buguet’s ?
A. Curiosity.
Q. Did you invoke the spirits ?
A. Yes. Two spirits came, a friend and an uncle.
Q. How much did you pay ?
A. Twenty francs each time.
Q,. Do you believe in spirits ?
A. Yes.
Q. Your belief is sincere ?
A. Yes.
Q. You are perfectly convinced ?
A. Yes.
Q. I am afraid, Mademoiselle, you have given your money
to men who abused your credulity.
A. No, sir.
M. DE VEH’S EVIDENCE.
M. de Veh, father of the last witness.
Q. Have you seen spirits ?
A. Yes. -
Q. But they did not stay long. If spirits are there, why do
they go away ?
A. You had better ask them.
Q. Well, sir, here is the box of spirits.
A. Oh, I know, Mr. President, I have been told that I am a
fool.
Q. Sir, I shall take care that nothing of the kind is said.
A. It will be believed, nevertheless.
Q. No, you have only been deceived.
A. Mr. President, is this a matter of trying M. Buguet, or
of trying whether I have been deceived. M. Buguet may
have had recourse in certain cases to a particular process,
but I am not mistaken. I have seen spirits.
Lachaud—Does thie witness believe in the likenesses of the
spirits he has seen ?
A. I have said so, and I maintain it.
Q. Have you had relations with Firman ? Did he ask you
for any money ?
A. He never asked me for anything. I always gave him
something.
Q. Have you seen the little Indian ?
A. Yes, sir, at a private seance. The little Indian rose up,
and vanished in the air.
Q. You may, perhaps, have seen something, but perhaps
not a spirit.
A. “ Perhaps” means nothing according to law. Mr. Presi¬
dent, you do not believe in spirits; I believe in them because
I have seen them ; if I had not seen them I should be making
a fool of myself. But, before judging, one should endeavour
to see for oneself.
(Applause at the further end of the court, which was sup-
i pressed immediately).
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
EVIDENCE OF MME. STOUKBE.
Mme. Stourbe, tobacconist, aged thirty-four.
Q. Are you a Spiritist ?
A. I am a healing medium, and I was sent for to M. Buguet;
his operations made him very ill; he was exhausted and I
relieved him; he recovered under the magnetic influence.
Q. He was divested in this way of the presence of spirits ?
A. Yes.
Q, Well, Buguet tells you now that he is not a medium, and
that there is nothing supernatural about him.
A. I cannot prevent him from thinking so, but he was
visibly unwell when I made the passes.
Buguet—It is true that I sometimes had headaches.
Q. And you tolerated the magnetic passes to cure your
headaches ?
Buguet—And to please the lady. (Laughter.)
Q. You see that you were mistaken as to your own powers,
I advise you to mind your tobacco in future.
A. Because M. Buguet says these things it is no reason for
believing them.
The next witness called was Madame Kardec, whose evidence
will be given in our next number.
A letter from Mr. Chinnery to Mr. Coleman says that
during the recent trial of Messrs/ Leymarie and Firman at
Paris, the best evidence for the defence was suppressed, and
the evidence on the other side was almost entirely false.
Dr. Sexton at Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday next
Dr. Sexton will commence a series of discourses at Cavendish
Booms, where, by special request, he will repeat the discourse
given last Sunday at Goswell Hall on the “ Characteristics and
Tendencies of the Age.” Service commences at seven o’clock.
Admission free.
Mesmeric Healing in Liverpool.—It is now three
months since an institute was opened in Liverpool, by Messrs.
Coates and Meredith, essaying to heal the sick by mesmerism
and by the laying on of hands ; with what success will be seen
from the following statements by Mr. Coates : “ One hundred
and ninety-three cases have been attended to, and more than
one hundred of these without fee or reward; indeed in some
instances, like the nine lepers in the days of the Great Healer,
the patients forgot even to return thanks. Among the various
diseases that have been treated were paralysis, rheumatism,
gout, cramp, nervous debility, weakness of limbs, disease of
liver and kidneys, these, as a rule, all of long standing, and
the results have been fairly successful. A mesmeric seance
has been held at the institute every Tuesday evening, during
which the reality of mesmerism and its applicability to the
cure of disease have been demonstrated. These seances will be
continued right through the summer, and in the autumn it is
our intention to enlarge, our sphere of action by lecturing in
the most suitable halls that we can obtain in the country. We
also recommend, as well as use in our method, mesmerised
water, oils, flannels, and earth or clay. Nor do we neglect to
use, when directed by the aid of clairvoyance, the flower of the
field and the herb of the forest, which when judiciously admin¬
istered become grand auxiliaries to the healing art. We
append a few cases, out of many, to complete the report of our
three months’ labours.—Case 4. Miss Hone, 37, Severn-street,
15 years of age, paralysed right side for 12 years, the result of
a fright. Under treatment one month; progressing favour¬
ably, and able to walk; will undoubtedly be cured.—Case 20.
H. Hubour, 24, Bailey-street, 56 years of age, disease of kid¬
neys. Carefully examined by clairyoyante, a -few simples of
the field prescribed; cured in one treatment.—Case 43. Mrs.
Jehu, suffering four years, spitting blood, hectic cough, and all
the externals of consumption; cured after a short course of
treatment.—Case 3. Mr. Michell, 1, Constance-street, acute
erysipelas; cured after three treatments; particulars already
published.—Case 50. Dr. Brown, Standish-street, Burnley,
nervous coldness, many years a sufferer ; cured before he left
the room, one treatment.—Case 160. Mr. J. Lament, Fairfield,
nervous prostration; cured.—Case 174. Mr. T. Parry, officer
of Her Majesty’s Customs, victim for several years of acute
inflammatory rheumatism, so that he could not get in or out
of the boarding-boats without assistance; cured in two treat¬
ments.—We could give forty such cases did time and space in
your valuable paper permit, but these are enough, we think,
to show that our labours have not been in vain, and, if we
have not been made rich in a worldly sense, we cannot com¬
plain of these evidences and rewards of healing gifts, which
we earnestly* pray all men may learn to exercise.”
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’s LECTURES.
Sib,—Mrs. Tappan, I find, has left London, having completed
a series of inspirational discourses, embracing many subjects
and extending over many months,—a series which on the
whole will, I think, take rank with and support the high
literary character and elevated religious and scientific teach¬
ings from either the living or the dead which have for the
past twenty years been contributed to the spread of
Spiritualism.
I have just received a letter from Mr. Epes Sargent, of
Boston, from which I make an extract pertinent to the dis¬
course delivered by Mrs. Tappan under the control of the late
J. J. Mapes, of New York, professor of chemistry.
As a personal friend of Mr. Mapes I was requested by the
guides who direct Mrs. Tappan’s arrangements to preside on
that occasion. I felt it a duty to comply, though I have
almost given up the idea of taking a prominent part in any
meetings of Spiritualists. Before the discourse, in making a
few preliminary remarks, I said in effect that I knew of no
greater proof of the intercommunion of the “ two worlds ”
than is evidenced by the «power by which this delicately
framed young woman is inspired to speak most logically and
most eloquently on all subjects, which she has 'never smdied,
nor learnt from any book-teaching. It is claimed that she is
inspired to speak thus by an associated band of Spirits—men
of great eloquence and profound learning who have once lived
upon this earth. I know of no reasonable answer that can
be made to this claim and I accept it as true, and if true it is
the best reply we can make to such men as the God-denying
Mr. Holyoake, Mr. Bradlaugh, and their followers, when they
attempt in many ways to bring Spiritualism into disrepute.
The following is the extract I have above alluded to :—
“ I have been much interested in reading the discourse, said
to be from J. J. Mapes, through Mrs. Tappan, delivered May
9th, and preceded by some remarks of your own. I knew
Mapes well, and was, and am still intimately acquainted with
his friend Erickson, to whom he refers. I used often to
meet them together. The discourse seems to me very cha¬
racteristic of Mapes, and impresses me more than anything of
the kind I have seen as coming from the individual who, it is
claimed, inspired it. I have been struck, too, with the
many coincidences of thought and speculation with what I
have broached in my Proof Palpable.
‘‘Compare my chapter on the Unity of Forces and Phenomena
pages 160-167, with what Mapes has to say of the ‘ primal
essence ’ which is behind all the supposed primal gases. The
literary merit, too, of the discourse is quite superior to many
of those given through Mrs. Tappan.”
Upper Norwood. BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING UNDER NOVEL TEST CONDITIONS.
Sir,—Few people who have heard of Spiritualism have
failed also to hear of David Duguid, of Glasgow, inasmuch as
some of the most interesting and important phenomena occur
through his mediumship. At the present time I am informed
there is in course of publication a most wonderful book, per¬
haps one of the most wonderful books the world has ever
seen, called Earth Life and Spirit Life Experiences of Hafed,
Prince of Persia, which has from beginning to end been com¬
municated through this medium while in a trance state; and
still more wonderful when it is known that the book fills up
the gap in the history of Jesus between His childhood and the
commencement of His ministry, and will be illustrated by
lithographic copies of twenty-four direct drawings, having con¬
siderable merit as works of art, and great interest when the
manner of their production is understood.
On Wednesday, 9th inst., being with two others invited to
a seance at the house of the medium in question, we met some
little time before the hour named, in order that we might have
an opportunity of becoming somewhat better acquainted with
him and each other, and of looking at the many paintings
and drawings adorning the walls of his rooms, which were
said to have, many of them, a direct spiritual origin.
Thus time rapidly passed, and very soon signs were given
that David was losing control of his organism, and that some
one else was gaining what he was losing. Of course this some
one else was as much unseen as was the owner of the organism‘t
but the painter, who calls himself “ Steen,” soon manifested
June 25, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
a marked individuality entirely different from the very modest
and unassuming one of David himself. My object, however,
being only to describe that portion of what took place which
refers to direct paintings and drawings, the very interesting
conversation of the control will not be reported.
After we had sat perhaps half an hour, a blank piece of
paper was taken out of a small box and placed with a pencil
upon the table within reach of ourselves, the sitters, but out
of the reach of the medium, who was bound securely to bis
chair, and sat some little distance away from the table. The
gas was put out for a few minutes, when upon again lighting
up a very respectably executed pencil drawing was found upon
the paper, David being still bound. This paper, however, was
not particularly identified, and as a test, therefore, the mani¬
festation was not of much value.
Whether or not this thought was read by the controlling
spirit I do not know, but another piece of ordinary printing
paper, supplied by Mr. Nisbet, who was with us at the seance,
was folded and placed in an envelope, fastened down and
initialled by each of those present, except the medium, who
was still too tightly bound to bis chair, hands, feet, and arms,
to permit it. The sealed envelope was then placed upon the
table, and all were requested to put our fingers upon the
envelope ; the gas was then put out, and after the lapse of, say,
three minutes a light was struck and we were instructed to
open the envelope, which, after satisfactory examination, we
did, and found upon the paper enclosed a very interesting
pencil drawing of a half-length female figure in profile, sur¬
rounded by winged heads, with an eye at the top in the centre,
and a German sentence at the bottom. The paper was iden¬
tified as being the same which was seen in the first instance
without the drawing upon it.
Now I do not pretend to know how this was done, but no
ordinary difficulties had to be overcome. (I) A securely
hound medium, who could not so much as touch the.paper.
(2) A folded paper in a secured envelope. (3) The pressure of
five pairs of hands upon the envelope containing the paper
while resting upon the table.
Had this been the result of ordinary human agency, the
drawing must have been executed before the paper was folded
and before it was placed in the envelope, but it was not so done.
Next, an additional test was given us. A plain card was
provided, off which we tore a corner and retained as a means
of future identification. Paints and pencils were then placed
before the medium, who remained bound as before described,
the room darkened, and when we were requested almost im¬
mediately to re-light up we found upon the table where it bad
previously been placed the same cards, with a neatly exe¬
cuted landscape in oil upon it, with the colours still wet and
the pencil (one only) full of the last colour which had been
used in the production of the picture.
Comment is unnecessary, but this is the way our friends on
the other side prove they are not so far from us.
6, Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E. J. Fkeeman.
THOMAS LAKE HARBIS’S POSITION IN RELATION TO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Since 1872 I have had in my possession a copy of a
letter addressed by Thomas L. Harris to a gentleman in
London in that year. On perusing the lengthy article by
Dr. Berridge, in a recent number of The Spiritualist, I felt
that the time had come when the contents of that letter ought
to be made public. Those contents will be seen to be of a
public character, though written in reply to the questions of
an individual. I therefore send them to you, without con¬
sulting the gentleman to whom the letter was addressed, taking
entirely upon myself the consequences of giving to the public
the contents of a letter thus addressed to another.
If it should seem right in your eyes to print and publish
what Mr. Harris here writes in 1872, I think it will be of use
in defining his present position as a Spiritualist, and Dr.
Berridge’s article seems to call for this.
“ 1. With reference to writing mediumship. There is no
dependence to be placed on the mere verbal statements of
spirits as to their real belief. One class deceives purposely;
they are simply flowing into your general thought, and coin¬
ciding with your most devout convictions for the purpose of
obtaining a supreme and ruinous dominion over your mind
and body. Another class are simply parasites, negatives,
drawn into the personal sphere of the medium, and seeking
to sun themselves in its light and heat by absorbing the vital
forces, on which they feed, and by means of which they, for a
time, revive their faded intelligence and apathetic sense.
To the Mohammedan they confirm the Koran; to the
Pantheist they deify nature; to the believer in the Divine
Humanity they glorify the Word. Fighting, as every upward
growing man is, to obtain deliverance from the self-hood, with
its dead obstructions, its faltering limitations, it is most dan¬
gerous to become interlocked with the deadly self-hoods
of sects, of inversine human society, or of clans, hordes,
tribes, and wandering banditti of tbe Spiritual world.
“ 2. Spiritism, as distinguished from spirituality, belongs to
one of the lowest, stages of human society. Its phenomena (1)
belong to the barbaric era of religious sentiment, and (2) to
epochs of religious decay. Races, as they sink into an infirm
obsolete culture, make Spiritism at last their sole religion, as
with the dense masses of China. As Christianity, in its vast
corporate form, sinks into its last paralysis, the larvae gather
to absorb the last vital remains, and to complete the work of
dissolution. As Spiritism grows in a community, the Holy
Ghost, the operation of the Divine Humanity, is obviously
withdrawn. Spiritism does not develope spirituality ; it pro¬
duces rather a ghastly and attenuated materialism. As men
tend outward, by tbe sense to take bold on spirits, they lose
their heart-bold, their life-bold, on tbe Living God. Hence
centres of Spiritism are centres of decay. For real, orderly
growth we turn inward, to inspire reviving, purifying life from
the Lord, and then outward to ultimate the life thus received
in social use. If God waits at the door of the spirit, ever
gracious and ever present, let us call upon Him; His creative
and redemptive efficiency is our sufficiency. It is orderly to
communicate with spirits if our special human use makes it
necessary to explore tbe ground of their operations in the
human form, in the social body ; just as the medical student
uses the dead body for the purposes of education in bis calling,
or walks the hospitals, or devotes long and painful days to the
sad and terrible details of insanity. Use always determines
diifty. But the exhaustive treatment of the subject requires a
volume, and I touch here only on its outskirts. I snatch a
hurried moment from time always more than occupied, and
only have room to add in conclusion, that I hope soon to be
able to come into regular and frequent communication with
inquiring friends.”
I can only rely on your well-khown impartiality and extreme
liberality for tbe insertion of the above, since it militates so
strongly against the ordinary spirit investigations, and so-
called, but mis-called, spirit materialisations.
Perhaps at some future opportunity, if the above be made
public, I may address a few lines to you about internal
respiration, as connected with failures and errors in the
subjects of it. I gather from the March number of The
New Church Independent, published at Chicago, that Mr.
Harris is now in California, with several others from Brocton,
who have gone with him for some purpose.
Newtonheath. Thomas Robinson.
CURIOUS EXPERIENCES RELATING TO DREAMS.
Sir,—Would it not be possible to get the story of synchro¬
nous dreams, on p. 266, completed by the testimony of Mr
Clifford Smith ? What a mass of materials—invaluable for
psychology if they were but attested by a second person
always alleged to be at hand—seems always useless, owing to
this tantalising defect! It is perfectly lamentable.
The differences between people as regards dreaming are
noteworthy. Thus, from the patriarch Joseph down to Mr.
Gray, on p. 269, there have been inventors and authors who
say their best ideas originate in dreams. Now mine invariably
come to me in bed as soon as I am fully awake. Not a new
idea of the slightest value to me have I ever formed, I think,
at any other hour. But neither (though a constant dreamer)
have I ever kept an idea from dreams other than sheer non¬
sense. Yet it frequently happens that, while dreaming, I am
as astonished as Mr. Gray describes himself to be, at tbe flow,
eitJUer of new and precious ideas, or lucid ways of expressing
those that I bad vainly attempted to express when awake.
So that, whether it be a lecturer to whom I dream I am lis¬
tening, or as more frequently happens, an address I am giving
to an audience (a thing I never did in my life)—it culminates
either, as he says, in some splendid verse, or some aphorism
so new and pregnant that my trouble is, ” 0 that this were
written ; the instant that I have paper every syllable of this
invaluable matter must go down,” and I wake with tbe sounds
ringing in my ears, ready to jump out of bed to note it all
down; when lo! it is not exactly like Serjeant Cox’s scarlet
fever article, “ a jumble of words,” but a string of syllables
as meaningless to me as so much Hebrew, which, for aught I
know, it may be. After such a disappointment I frequently
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
have, as on other mornings, the problems that pnzzled me the
previous day quickly and delightfully cleared up; and this
double experience on the same morning is so common that I
have clung to the theory that possibly the ideas wanted are
first, in sleep, presented in the language that was mine in a
former life, totally unknown to me in this one, and after I am
fully awake they are put into English.
Only twice do I remember anything in dreams mysterious
or not plainly a jumble of bits of recent waking experience.
In one, I saw a small venerable Norman village church,
quite strange to me, which, to the grief of myself and a recently
dead relative who was present, was about to have its wooden
palings replaced by cockney iron palisades. The fact was
not told, but somehow impressed upon us, and also that every¬
thing we saw was symbolic, and meant that the Church of
England was to suffer changes for the worse, be narrowed in
doctrine, and fenced as it were with spiritual cast iron, instead
of wood. This dream occurred in January, 1862.
The other case was a dream of a kind very common to my
female relatives, if they may be believed. I seemed roused
by a lady I had only seen once, and that fully four months
before, on business, and forty miles off. Now I keep so poor
an image of people not seen repeatedly, that I rarely, at the
second meeting, know them. I was dressed before ceasing to
wonder at the vivid realisation of this lady’s face and voice,
which no effort of mine could then or now recall; nor, indeed,
those of friends fifty times better known. The same hour
came the first of the few letters she had occasion to send me;
for the business and acquaintance only lasted a year or two.
Now the relative mentioned in the former dream, an aunt
with whom I then lived, used for years before and after this,
to say at breakfast, on an average twice a week, “ I know
by dreams a letter is coming from X,’’ or perhaps more com¬
monly, “ I shall hear from either A or B,” never naming more
than two. She had at least thirty correspondents, though
hardly, I think, three letters a week ; and I could pretty well
swear that a majority of these forecasts came true. Often
there was no letter, but I never remember one from an unpre¬
dicted quarter.
I suppose every one learns, in dream-life, arts peculiar
thereto. I never in my life walked downstairs in a dream, the
faculty of flying down seeming innate; but this was exercised
in childhood most unwillingly and regretfully, because the
alighting seemed violent, and perhaps always woke me.
This is now never the case, because I acquired, between the
ages of about twenty and thirty, the art of prolonging the
flight, and alighting as gently as a bird. This I suspect to be
only the same exertion of will by which I can now always stay
out a dream to its close, like Major Owen; a great improve¬
ment on the childish liability to have eyery dream broken off,
like shutting a novel at the very point of most interesting
suspense. But of the Major’s art of going through a dream
twice or thrice, I must confess ignorance.
After believing for years that in perfect health we never j
dream, I was driven by more observation to the contrary
notion. Unless at sea, I never awoke from a dreamless
sleep more than once; this was in an inn at Portsmouth.
Before daybreak I thus woke to an undefinable sense of awe,
vaguer even than that of Eliphaz, for I had not the least guess
at what it could be, unless the dreamless blank I had just left
and thus discovered to be a strange and indeed unique novelty.
I soon heard three quarters struck, then four o’clock, and went
asleep again. It was the 6th of October, 1863, and the next
day all England was talking of the earthquake shock that, at
3h. 40m., nearly every one north of the Thames had felt, but
only some half dozen people south of it, Dickens at Rochester
being one, and none in Hampshire that I ever heard.
E. L.. G.
J one 9th, 1875.
ALLAN KARDEC AND HIS TEACHINGS.
Sib,—I think the story about the broaching of the
re-incamation theory being instigated by the Jesuits may
be well left to refute itself. A mere perusal of Kardeo’s
works will suffice for that. It will be seen to be as ridiculous
as the Satanic theory regarding Spiritualism. Supposing it to
be true, the Jesuits have completely cut their own throats.
There ought to be many people in England acquainted with
Kardec’s works, since they have always been as easily
obtainable, through any English and foreign bookseller, as any
other foreign works. Whether the doctrine be absurd or no
can be best decided by a study of the question as laid down in
the works themselves.
Allan Kardeo does not teach transmigration into the bodies
of animals, as lately asserted by a well-known lecturer.
One could see long ago that Mrs. Tappan’s guides would
ultimately put forth the doctrine in some form or other, and
I think I perceive indications of the same kind in the ' ‘ Spirit
Teachings ” given occasionally in The Spiritualist. Time will
show.
Admit pre-existence, and the doctrine of re-inoarnation or
rather of successive incarnations, necessarily follows.
June 20th, 1875. B. M.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS AT THE HOUSE
OF MR. CROOKES.
Mrs. Elsie Corner (Florence Cook) has favoured us with
the following interesting letter for publication :—
20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
June 21,1875.
My dear Flobrie,—Great interest having been expressed as
to the “ Leila” materalisations which have taken place through
your mediumship at our house and elsewhere, I will with
pleasure put down on paper some of the phenomena which
have occurred under my own observations.
As the manifestations professed to be given solely for Mr.
Crookes’ information, most of the seances have necessarily
been held here,-but Leila has also appeared at three other
houses. For the same reason my husband was at first almost
constantly in the cabinet, and latterly he was allowed to go in
and out as he liked; but it was by no means necessary for
him to be present.
On several occasions we have all seen you and Leila at the
same time. Once Leila and my husband were standing in the
room with us talking, when you suddenly rushed out of the
cabinet, pushed past them, and fell insensible on the floor.
Leila scolded Mr. Crookes for allowing you to leave the
cabinet, and disappeared. On another occasion you walked
out in a trance, staggered about the room we were sitting in, and
then went back into the cabinet: as you entered the cabinet
you held the curtain on one side and let us see Leila standing
a few feet from us in her usual white robe. Several similar
occurrences have taken place at other times.
I may add that on almost every occasion I have heard you
cough, sigh, move about, or speak in the cabinet, whilst Leila
has been outside, talking to us.
On two occasions Leila, whose feet were always bare, took
one of your shoes off, and asked me to put it on her foot. I
knelt down by her side, and tried my utmost to squeeze her
foot into it, but found it impossible to do so, her foot being so
much larger than yours. Leila has appeared at our house
between twenty and thirty times, and tests of your separate
identities were given almost every night. On some occasions
visitors were present, but we have had the best seances when
you have been stopping with us as one of our family, and no
stranger whatever was present.—Believe me, affectionately
yours, Ellen Crookes.
Mrs. E. E. Corner, 6, Bruce-villas, Eleanor-road, Hackney.
A Garden Party.—Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., and
Mrs. Harris have established the hospitable custom of inviting
to a garden party every year, at their residence, Iselipps Manor,
Northolt, near Southall, a number of ladies and gentlemen in¬
terested in anthropological, psychological, and kindred subjects.
Last Tuesday this annual meeting took place, and among the
friends present were Dr. W. B. Richardson, F.R.S.; Mr. F. K.
Munton, hon. secretary to the Psychological Society; Mrs.
Munton; Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Bohn; Mr. and Mrs. George
Cruikshank; General Sir James E. Alexander; Canon Gordon
and Lady Ellen Gordon; Dr. De Sainte Croix, editor of the
Journal dies Beaux Arts; Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., director
of the Anthropological Institute; Mrs. Brabrook; Mr. G. M.
Tagore and family; Mr. R. N. Phillips, Recorder of Ponte¬
fract ; the gRev. Dr. Rogers, Secretary to the Royal Historical
Society; Mr. T. Sopwith, F.R.S,; Mr. and Mrs. Harrington ;
and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Luncheon was served under a mag¬
nificent walnut tree, and in the course of a few lively speeches
which followed, Mr. Munton said that although the Psycholo¬
gical Society was a new one, and had been irreverently de¬
scribed by Mr. Harris as “ a society in petticoats,”, he believed
it would soon become the most important of all the learned
bodies, because it dealt with problems connected with the
human mind and soul. Among the curiosities which Mr. and
Mrs. Harris exhibited to their guests were large numbers of
Rembrandt’s original etchings, carefully collected by Mr. Harris
during the last forty years.
June 25, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS, (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood..
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Jlolder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.G.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool,
Honywood. Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Pinchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann's-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chadwick, Sheldon, 54, Mortimer-road. Downham-road, Kingsland, E.
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue tefrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackhcath, S.E.
Dawe, N, Fabyan, 80, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-bill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforoe-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hiU, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T„ 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Oapt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E, 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W,
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meets, W. D„ Ay Is ham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breek-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, N ottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt- grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shad well, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mai),
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potsohach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Fans.
Mine, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 155, West Brookline-street Boston, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Numbergor Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Oiavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Bue d’Anieras, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Allied Society.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
MRS. ANNIE EYA FAY, the celebrated Spiritual
Medium will give a farewell series of LIGHT and DARK SEANCES
with MATERIALISATIONS before departing for America, at her drawing¬
rooms, No. 21, Princess-stre at, Hanover-square, W., every evening at 3
o’clock, and Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday mornings at 3 o’clock.
Tickets 10s. each, to be obtained of Messrs. Mitchell, and Lacon and Oliver,
Bond-street, and at 21, Princess-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumshio.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MR. W. Gr. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds'-bush,
W. Please write.
M~lss GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Resister tour Lexters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon 'as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED hy R. W. Flint,
k3 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests. Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
N OTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
daily J from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Em. parkes, spiritualist photoorapher.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittins. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Jourt al. Edited by J.TY •rma>,
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-si reel, Melbourm,
and all Australian Booksellers.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 25, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIEECDALISM DESERVES
, INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves myestig^tian,because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all t^e jeivilised;countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands'Of .volujnes^afid not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical. Society, • '^dam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of,Sir John Lubbock, .Bar&jlpP., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena'.' The; Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—* • * < >
“ H. Q-. Atkinson; Esq., •E.Q-.'Si,;. Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq.,^O.E.; H. B.‘Fox . Bourne,' Egq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Q-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John'Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R; Di^sdale; .l^sq^, M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte James Edmunds, .Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan, Geary,-Eiiq.';.' Robert Hannah, Esq.,F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq,; .Mrs. J. G; Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
IVf.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq,; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert (Quqlch, ®sq:,i O-’E. ;/Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq;,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley an“d Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. • Drs: Qhapjnan and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the folloyying.names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Ca'ry, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Go.Wer; Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
ESq.; W. H.. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber,; Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which,' with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles',of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person..
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means Of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —.
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
deVeloped physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful,'earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come' to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings dr rap’s.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one-person only speak,, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tefl the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the .alphabet slowly, wfll you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?”- Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be, put, to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
.spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms ;of . other forms of
m'ediutttship than tiles or raps may make their hppe&ance.’: •
i! ;i
“THE SRIRITHALIST,, NEWSPAPER:
A Record of:the‘/Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED'WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
* * ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the.movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent,of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C'.E;,. F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Shieiice (who admits-the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess, of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon! Rpbert'Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir‘Charles Isham,, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Chufch,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall‘Gregory ; _the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and~Onevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness.Adelma, Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templemah Speer, M.D.
(Edin.)-'; Mr. J. O. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Mies A. Blackwell!(Paris);.Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies,and gentlemen.
In the Press and will be shortly published', in'one'volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on tbnecl "paper, entitled -
ANGELIC REVELATIONS’ .
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OP THE
- HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
‘,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a, full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a .Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct bperation of
Spirits. • .
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has Spared no expense to make itta handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it js hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested m the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, ,•
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER -G
who has kindly consented to receive orders for the same;’ T
f 110 THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLE WOMEN,
X or others deprived of the advantages of a Horne Circle,-, Ai Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in .order to complete‘their studies
by means of the classes held at the Crystal-PAlaSe'Se^p'OD'or Art,
yrtiere the best masters are engaged. Board and residence,'exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. .YoungJ^dies of gSodgaraily from the
Continent or the'Colonies would be acceptable. 'AddfeS8';rrZ, Nicnolls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood, . - I 
mo THE, READERS jfr^Answer,
JL to William Howitt’s Letter,on. the British Na;tio,&al ’Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon J'O'r (“';Idia.f'),'':PiiM6hed by E. W.
Allfen''Ave’Maria-lane-. Priee Ohe-Pehny'-/-’.'v ' ^ 'i
Printed Ibr^the' .Proprietor .byiBki^RfDflXCCO.jiatithe Holborn Printing
Woirks;,FullwQod’s-.,Rmitsi.Eii^ H^JbOTn^in’,tnei'Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar aha St?Geor’ge'tneMK,ftyr,’xibfl'doh, and published by E. W.
Allen; Ave Marla-lahe Eohdcm'E'.U.' ’
