[Begtstered as a Newspaper
Oje Sttbspapr toxtlj Sphitxtalxsm m
#nitf §rHahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 194.—(Vol. VIII.—No. 19.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1876.
Grontetus.
Wax Moulds of Materialised Spirit Hands 217
A Remarkable Test Seance in Manchester     217
The Spiritual Ideas of African Savages. By Baron
Direkinek-Holmfeld    ... 218
A Ghost at Church in York     218
A Mysterious “ Glory ”    ...219
Spiritual Manifestations in Private Life ... ... ... ... 219
How to he Happy  ...     ... ... ... 220
Mr. Blackburn's Seances:—Physical Manifestations in the
Light    ...    ... ... ... 221
A Spirit Materialising Under the Eyes of the Observers
in Manchester. By William Oxley  222
Well-Authenticated Apparitions of Dying Persons. By
Hensleigh Wedgwood  ,   ... 223
How The Times Settles the Question of the Reality of A p-
paritions ... ... ..."   ... ... ... ... ... ... 224
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Objections
to Psychological Facts Examined — The Value of
Human Testimony in Support of Psychological Pheno¬
mena—Are Psychological Phenomena Opposed to the
Order of Nature ?—Seances under Test Conditions—
The Investigating Committee of the Psychological
Society—The Conditions Influencing Spiritual Manifes¬
tations—Jugglers among Mediums and Men of Science
—Spiritualism and Science    ... ... 224
Correspondence F^-A Seance with Mr. Arthur Golman—
Materialisation of a Full Figure—Mr. Coates’ Case —■
“ Thrown Off ” Duplications—The Obtaining of Reliable
Communications from Departed Friends—Affection in
Spirit Circles—The Influence of Atmospheric Condi¬
tions on Mediums ... ...    ... ... 227
Answers to Correspondents  228
Paragraphs:—Trance Lectures in Newcastle, 220; Foreign
Spiritual Periodicals, 220; The Trapped Medium, 220; The
Book of Mediums, 221; Test Physical Manifestations, 221 j
The Shereefa Sidi-El-Hadi-Ahd-es-Salem, 224; The
Persecuted Editor of the Revue Spirits, 242; Miss
Fowler’s Physical Manifestations 228
mm
^Established in 1869.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Reduced to Half-price!
ERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. London Series.
S
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Ralf-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement a Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by thelfirst post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
, be .addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
ED. 
AB NNALI HELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SoeiiU
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
II. —Heart Wants of London.
III. —Christ Incarnate.
IV. —Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
HALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrister- at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Ilmorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts erom Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can !only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to'special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reacling of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on thej?rs< Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
sucli ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. Alllthe English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly suppued to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as' amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
” To aid students and inquirers in their .researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic:' to assist in giving
publicity to tbe results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondende and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can hapbtamed on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
“RS. WOOUFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 90, Great Russell-
street, near the British Museum, where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs ¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blond el) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for tbe Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested for the Thurs¬
day evenings.. All friends who have been in the habit ol
attending Mrs. Wobdforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must he given. Names will he received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mis. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLAGE, REGENT’S PARK.
established, 1833.
Eas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or propoi
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard
villas, Upper Norwood.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open, to members and, inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scieniifle subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Lihrary has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guine*
a year includes membership, and one hook from the lending
libiary. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and lihrary, hut not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may ha
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should he addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-stieet, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
East London spiritual meetings.--
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’si
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. . Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only ; Thurs
day, (Seance at Eight, members only; Friday, .Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, 3d
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Bubton, Bon. Secretary.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m. t
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday,.Seance at 8p.m.; Is. Friday, Seancent
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; snbscribers only.  
ST. MATTHEW’S, SPRING GARDENS
(near Charing-cross station). On the Sundays after
Easter a COURSE OF SERMONS will be preached by the
Rev. Maubice Davies, D.D., on “ The Apparitions of Christ
during the Great Forty Days; ” with special reference to their
bearing on the future that awaits us. Subjects—
1. April 23rd.—Tbe Apparitions to the Women. The Nature
of the Resurrection-Body. Woman's Faith and Love.
2. April 30th.—On the Emmaus Road. Man’s Despondency.
The Change in the Risen Body.
3. May 7th.—To the Ten. The Message of Peace to a Broken
Circle.
4. May 14th.—To the Eleven. The Doubter convinced. The
Believer blessed.
5. May 21st.—On the Sacred Beach. Links with the Past.
Loving Provisions for the Future.
6. May 28th.—On the Mount of Ascension. Last Farewells
Service commences at a quarter-past Eleven.
 S. Flood Joses, M.A., Incumbent.
Price Is. OJd., post free.'
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONUORSlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
May 12, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
(Jalder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, LllUn-villa, Holder’s-hlll, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
(Iregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
llitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-stteet, Isllngton.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.G.
Ramsay, Mrs., 40, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road,Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildlngs, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj’ House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-parlc-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George II., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmunds, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holdor’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Lougliborough-rd, North
Hrixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hlU, Birmingham,
llayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T„ 3, West-end, Doddingtou-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosweil-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Fincliley. N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Yersailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath.S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Jolm’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin H. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
■Vhmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M.C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli,Milan.
Dr. Maxmillan Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 63i4,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, jlemphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
7j. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Gmnhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary".
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchias, Paris.)
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Browne, 42, Eastlakc-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spirlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochuszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiiutuat.ists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and Individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
Hie year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
\Auditors.—1Ax. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1;—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
square, w.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
HTHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the li erature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest,
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
 row.  
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects,
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES R1GG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granyille-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at-home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
'RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsburj’-, W.C.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne. 
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifies.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
■^TOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_Ll Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &e. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To he seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication c f
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
M-r! WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can he engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
■Jl/TISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horn s, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. 6d. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 6s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T,Y.,'16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney,
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
v-
(ns
J[ tl tl fljjj unit ti
Volume Eiqht. Kumber Kijmeteen.
gjAb
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 12th, 1876.
WAX MOULDS OF MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS.
The remark has not unfrequently been made by experienced
Spiritualists, that spiritual manifestatians are always most
powerful during the spring months, when all nature is
bursting into fresh life, and the remarkable phenomena we
have recorded within the past few weeks, tend to verify the
idea. The test manifestations with Mr. Eglinton are of
great value, not because other mediums may not obtain
equally conclusive results, but because in his case they have
been observed and recorded by good critical witnesses, whose
testimony will carry weight with the public; all mediums
should seek to get their best results thus verified. Last
week we published how, while his right foot, enclosed in a
spring boot, was outside the cabinet, a materialised spirit
<c right foot,” the duplicate of his own, was moulded inside,
under test conditions. This is a strong additional link in
the chain of evidence in favour of the duplication which is
already an absolutely proved fact to those who have had suf¬
ficient experience. To make the evidence still stronger, he
might perhaps make an offer to the same circle, to be
searched by one of its members, then to sit with his hands
and feet projecting through holes in the side of the cabinet,
his bare right hand in full sight, and so tied that it could
not be drawn in through the hole. A duplicate mould in
paraffin of his right hand, obtained under such conditions as
these, would be a strong and a new link to add to the existing
chain of evidence.
The plan of weighing paraffin to further prove that moulds
from spirit hands are made on the spot, is a clumsy one,
because the spirits could carry a paraffin hand into a
cabinet, and carry other paraffin away, just as they some¬
times transport solid objects after a seance begins ; moreover,
they are not above doing so, the average of spirits who
produce physical manifestations being far more tricky than
the mediums, the knowledge of which circumstance has
been forced upon us by hard and unwillingly received
experience. Some chemical reagent should be mixed with
the paraffin, so that the chemist who put it in could after¬
wards test the moulds to see whether they had been made
on the spot. Evidence that a spirit hand dematerialises
inside a mould, would depend upon the unbroken mould pre¬
senting a narrow wrist; also upon Hhe certificate of an
expert microscopist that the texture of the mould of the
skin was unbroken all round the narrowest part of the
wrist, with no symptom of a fine longitudinal cut any¬
where, or of a iC dragging ” motion of the materialised
hand.
A REMARKABLE TEST SEANCE IN MANCHESTER.
We, the undersigned, hereby testify to the following facts,
which occurred in our presence at Mr. Eeimers’ room, on
the 17th April, 1876. We weighed accurately three-quarters
of a pound of paraffin, put it in a wash-basin, and poured
boiling water over it, which soon melted it down. If a hand
is dipped several times in this liquid the deposit of paraffin
(when cool) forms a mould for a perfect cast. This vessel,
along with another, filled with cold water, we placed in the
corner of the room. Two curtains, six feet high and four
feet wide, suspended on rods, formed a square cabinet with
apertures (about 15 inches wide) at the top on each side.
The wall being detached from the next house, and the cabinet
nearly occupied with furniture, the idea of trap - doors
was out of the question, as the floor was covered also with
vessels, chair, &c. A lady friend, gifted with that mys¬
terious power called mediumship, was, after the vessels were
placed in the cabinet, secured by a bag of stiff net, pulled
over her head, arms, and hands, and the tape running
through the open 'seam was drawn as tightly as could be
done, then well knotted, and a piece of paper inserted, which
would slip out in untying. The tape was knotted in one
bow, and the ends pinned to the bag between the waist
(round which the tape ran) and the head. All the witnesses
agreed that the medium alone could not free herself without
detection. In this helpless state we led her into the corner of
the cabinet, which was, besides chair, vessels, bookcase (with
open shelves) perfectly empty. There was nothing visible
beyond these things, which we examined in full gaslight.
The room was locked after the last guest arrived, that is,
from the beginning of the proceedings.
We toned the light down to some extent, but could plainly
see everything in tKe room, and took our seats about four
feet by six away from the curtains. After some time, which
was spent in singing or music, a face appeared at the front
aperture and then moved to the other. Its glittering beautiful
crown and white head-dress, and a black ribbon with golden
cross round the neck, were seen with equal distinctness
by all. Soon another female figure appeared, also with a
conspicuous crown, both showing at the same time, and in turn
ascending over the (open) top of the cabinet towards the ceil¬
ing, and gracefully saluting the sitters. The very strong
voice of a man greeting from the corner announced the
attempt to make casts. ' Then the first figure appeared
again at the aperture beckoning Mr. Martheze to approach
to shake hands. It took the ring from his finger, and Mr.
Martheze saw at the same timi the medium in the opposite
corner and in the stiff net. The figure, however, vanished
quickly towards the medium.
Mr. Martheze having returned to his seat, the voice from
the cabinet asked which hand we desired, and soon after Mr.
Martheze had again to come to the aperture, when the mould
of a left hand came up, and on inspecting it the ring was
found on one finger of the mould. Then Mr. Reimers was
called and received in like manner the right hand, to be sent
to his scientific friends in Leipzig, according to expressed
wish. Next the medium was heard coughing; her cough
had been suppressed the whole time (more than an hour);
it had given rise to fears of an unsuccessful experiment, so
violent were the fits at the beginning. After she came out
of the cabinet we at once examined the knots, &c., and
found everything exactly as before, even the pin, loosely
fastened and easily shaken off by strong movements. We
picked up all the remainder of the paraffin from the vessel,
and weighing it together with the two moulds found a trifle
over three-quarters of a pound, this small excess being due
to the amount of water taken up by the paraffin, as plainly
shown by squeezing it out of the remainder ; the proportion
of water in the moulds added to this would easily account for
this difference. This terminated our experiments. The
hands obtained differ widely in all respects from those of the
medium, but all show minute markings (better revealed by a
magnifying glass) of a living hand and of the same indi¬
viduality that has more than once given a mould under
the same test conditions.
We offer no theory for these strange facts, but simply give
them as we received them ; we fully understand how they
may give rise to the wildest imagination on the part of
enthusiastic witnesses, as well as of fanatical absent sceptics,
both taxing in their explanations the credulity of the
inexperienced in no small degree. Continuous, rigid, and
severe investigation will alone clear the road from the intru¬
sion of tempting phantasy, which is the welcome adornment
of a proved truth, but must not come “ on the way ” to it.
After the impostors, humbugs, or traitors have been suffi¬
ciently trumpeted out, the true facts gained in private
circles by pure love for truth, coupled with sound intellect,
not crippled by total ignorance or overtaxed brain, will have
a chance of being placed before the public. Then a general
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 12, 1876.
change of public opinion may force science to do what she
now seems determined to refuse, namely, to investigate, and
this apart from the opposition offered by the clergy.
J. N. Tiedeman Maetheze,
20, Palmeira- square, Brighton.
Christian Reimers,
2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
William Oxley,
•65, Bury New-road, Manchester.
Thomas Gaskell,
69, Oldham-road, Manchester.
Henry Marsh,
Birch Cottage, Fairy-lane, Bury New-road,
Manchester, April 29th, 1876. Manchester.
THE SPIRITUAL IDEAS OF AFRICAN SAVAGES.
BY BAKON DIRCKINCK-HOLMFELD.
Modern Spiritualism having made the mutual relationship between
the spiritual and natural worlds more conspicuously and generally
manifest than before, a new era in mankind’s history has begun, and
both psychology and anthropology, together with physiology, are being
pushed into new lines df observation. Science feels the necessity for
gathering, in a methodical way, information connected with those
sciences from different parts of our globe, and at all times of its history.
We live in a period of investigation, led on by rational critics. The old
creeds prevailing in India, Japan, Africa, America, and the rest of the
world, and also the remnants and corruptions of those creeds, are
searched and sifted by numerous explorers and reporters, and learned
literary men at home try to digest the observations and facts into syste¬
matical science.
The remnants of ancient creeds in Africa have particularly occupied
the attention of the European savants since its interior has been the
great object of exploration.- The superstition and the fetichism of its
sundry black, copper-coloured, and yellow tribes; their ordeals; and
the absurd, nay, infernal machinations of their sorcerers, rainmakers,
and exorcists, have been described by sundry travellers, as Magyar and
Bastian. Even the superficial notices of Captain Burton have recently
brought these insufficiently known matters before the public. Some
valuable information may be gathered in the reports of the Berlin
Mission to the Zulu-land, edited by its director, Dr. Wangemann
(Berlin, 1875), which in the first chapters (pp. 4—11) treat of the
theological traditions and notions still preserved by old men among the
tribes of the Zulu-Kaffirs. The missionaries endorse the opinions of
those who think that such African traditions are derived from the
Mosaic dispensation, because they show some conformity with the
Mosaic history of creation, circumcision, distinction between clean and
unclean beasts, polygamy, and so on. It appears more likely that these
scattered traditions and ceremonies are corrupted remnants of more
ancient systems of religion. I abstain from entering here into the
details of such disfigured traditions, and notice only a few points more
especially relating to the theories about modern Spiritualism.
A great deal of scepticism,' materialism, and naturalism nowadays
prevails in these tribes, and only finds an imperfect remedy in the
teachings of missionaries from the zealous sects of old perverted Chris¬
tian churches. Some practical good may certainly be effected, when the
civil power of annexing governments joins the missionaries in putting
down superstitious excesses and obnoxious abuses of pagan priestcraft
and worship. The path to future spiritual insight and genuine truth
may thus be prepared, and the rugged soil made ready for future civili¬
sation. In so far the missionary assistance may be far from absolutely
detrimental. The egotism of Christian priestcraft may, perhaps, be
quite as pernicious as the absurdity of the heathen; but, at all events,
it is more manageable and accessible to reason.
The uncompromising materialism of the Zulus, which admits no doc¬
trine which checks them in the enjoyment of sensual pleasures according
to their animal taste, makes them reject the notions of sin and Divine
prohibition, believing that such enjoyment is rather conformable with
the intentions of the Ordainer of nature, from whom the unbounded
despotic power of their chiefs and kings, and their forefathers, is
derived. They have constantly preserved a notion of continued life
after natural death.
They distinguish, as the report tells, p. 15, four sorts of spirits, or
future existences; viz., 1. Ama ton</o, possessing spiritual power either
for good or for evil, and who preside as itongo, in the shape of a serpent,
over every place and locality. 2. The ijhlobzi, who enter into some
animal body, generally into serpents, and thence influence the destiny
of man. 3. Islunzi, or shadows, which, by showing themselves in
dreams or visions, make it evident that a reality must be at the bottom
of them, and that the spirit, after having left the body, still has personal
existence. 4. The isituta, the most common sort of spiritual beings,
who wander about at the tombs, but also enter dwelling-places; they
are restless, and often comforted by the living, and may be compared to
imps, elves, and dwarfs, or the German “ poltergeister.”
Reincarnation is with the Zulus a belief; they hold that unprogressed
spirits are still bound to earthly objects, or animals; a belief quite as
crude as that of the Spiritists, but less absurd.
Pinneberg, Holstein.
Mr. Egltnton, physical medium, who recently announced his inten¬
tion of visiting the provinces, will remain in London for some weeks yet.
A GHOST AT CHURCH IN YORK.
\)\ The following mysterious narrative is given in an anonymous letter
;|)| in The Newcastle Daily Chronicle of May 2nd:—
](| On Good Friday last I went to Holy Trinity Church, York, for
j>| morning service, at 11 o’clock, and repaired with a friend to the gallery,
•j)i being anxious to see a certain apparition which is said to haunt the
Hi place.
j j j The gallery is situated at the extreme west end of the building, and
Ij faces the east window, from which it is distant some fifty feet or so. It
is said that in the aisle and body of the church nothing is ever seen.
The gallery was full, but no one seemed to have come there especially
| for the ghost, and though many of them afterwards said they saw it,
they were not in the least affected by the apparition, treating it as a
matter of course, to which they were well accustomed,
y! I kept my eyes fixed upon the east window for nearly the whole of
S| the hour and a half during which the service lasted, but was not
favoured with a sight of the phenomenon, although others saw it cross
11 the window and return, and my friend, who knows it well, called my
)j attention to the fact at the moment, yet I could perceive nothing. I,
) I therefore, left the place as unbelieving as ever, and supposed that either
I I vVas the victim of a hoax, or that it required a great stretch of imagi-
); nation to fancy that a passing shadow was the desired object. However,
j not liking to discredit tbe statements of many friends who were used to
seeing it almost every Sunday, I consented on Easter Day to go to the
)| same place and pew. The seat I occupied was not an advantageous one,
11 a large brass chandelier being between me and the lower panes of the
(| window. In the middle of the service, my eyes, which had hardly
j| once moved from the left or north side of the window, were attracted by
(I a bright light formed like a female robed and hooded passing from north
yj to south with a rapid gliding motion outside the church, apparently at
1} some distance. The window is Gothic, and, I fancy, from twenty to
f i twenty-five feet high, by twelve to fifteen feet wide at the base. The
(| panes through which the ghost shines are about five feet high and about
11 half-way between the top and bottom. There are four divisions in
(j the window, all of stained glass, of no particular pattern, the outer on
\j right and left being of lighter colour than the two centre panes, and at
) i the edge of each runs a rim of plain transparent white glass, about two
(j inches wide, and adjoining the stone work. Through this rim, espe-
\ | cially, could be seen what looked like a form transparent, but yet thick
j (if such a term can be used) with light. It did not resemble linen, for
jj instance, but was far brighter, and would no doubt have been dazzling
) I to a near observer. The robe was long, and trailed. The figure was of
>j course not visible when it had crossed the window and passed behind
ji the wall. My friend whispered to me that it would return, must return,
ij and at the end of five minutes or so the same figure glided back from
>| right to left, having turned round while out of sight. About half an
.I hour later it again passed across from north to south, and having
ij remained about ten seconds only, returned with what I believe to have
'j been the figure of a young child, and stopped at the last pane but one,
,1 where both vanished. I did not see the child again, but a few seconds
>j afterwards the woman reappeared, and completed the passage, behind
jj the last pane, very rapidly. Nothing more was seen during the service,
)j and no other opportunity presented itself to me for making observations.
l| During each time the chandelier prevented me from obtaining a com-
j! plete view, but there could be no doubt as to the shape, a certain
I amount of indistinctness, however, being caused by the stained glass.
| On the reappearance for the last time I saw the head, which was, I
ji believe, that of the child, move up and down distinctly, as if nodding.
J The figure shone with dazzling brightness, and appeared to be at a
> i considerable distance, say thirty yards or so, though at the same time as
ji distinct as possible, considering the obstruction of coloured glass. Each
j time the level upon which it glided was precisely the same, and after-
) i wards, on carrying a straight line from the spot in the gallery where I
jj sat through the part of the glass where the feet of the figure shone, and
\i continuing that line (in my mind’s eye, with all the objects before me,
ji except the ghost, whose position I had taken good notice of), I
ji found that it would traverse a thick holly tree eight or nine feet
ji high, at about four feet from the ground, and at two or three
)j feet from the ground, a low wall about four feet high, and would reach
j i the ground itself in the middle of a gravel yard belonging to the back
ji premises of the house, called the vicarage, at a distance of twelve or
ji fifteen yards from the window. Any person walking between the
jj window and the holly tree would barely be seen at all, much less be seen
jj in the place which the apparition occupies ; and any one on the further
j j side of the tree would be almost if not quite invisible, on account of the
j I holly and other bushes and the dead wall. Any one about there at all
ji can easily be seen from the many houses on all sides,
jj . If it were a shadow thrown upon the glass of the window it would, of
j! course, be seen by those who sit in the body of the church as well as
j; those in the gallery.
j i It cannot be a reflection on the principle of Pepper’s Ghost, which is
j j produced by the figure actually being in a very strong light and appear-
j [ ing reflected on glass in a darkish spot. The lights both inside and
j| outside of the church at York, which might be thought to produce the
ji ghost, are precisely the reverse, and any figure required to be repro-
j j duced by reflection on the east window would have to be standing or
j i walking in the centre of the aisle.
j j For the above facts I can vouch, and I have no reason to believe that
j j the following are either incorrect or exaggerated.
(j It is said to appear very frequently on Trinity Sunday, and to bring
jj two other figures on to the scene, another female, called the nurse, and
?j the child. It is often seen as distinctly on a dark, rainy, or snowy day,
j j as when the sun is shining. When I saw it the sun was not bright,
jj The motion is even, not at all jerky. Sometimes it glides swiftly; at
ji other times slowly. It cannot be a mere accidental reflection, from a
j i door or window, for instance, for the figure faces different ways, accord-
May 12, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST
219
ing to the direction in which it is going; and it is not always alone, nor
do the figures always act in concert.
'One of my friends, with a companion, has watched outside on the wall,
where he had a full view of the whole place around, during morning
service. The ghost has been seen from the inside, while outside nothing
was visible.
It is said to have haunted the church for 150, 200, and some authori¬
ties say 300 years, and there are many pretty legends connected with
it.
One of the many traditions says that 300 years ago, during religious
disturbances, a party of soldiers came to sack the convent attached to
this church; that the abbess, a woman of great virtue and courage,
stopped them as they were entering, declaring that they should enter
over her dead body only, and that, should they succeed in their sacri¬
legious purpose, as they afterwards did, her spirit would haunt the place
until the true Church were re-established, and a convent built on the
same spot. Another story relates that during the plague, some two
hundred years ago, a nurse and child died of the pestilence, and were
necessarily buried outside the city walls, while the unfortunate mother
of the child at her death was interred in Holy Trinity churchyard.
Here the mother waits and receives the nurse and child, weeping and
wringing her hands before parting with them. The same scene is often
enacted several times during the same day, and even during the same
service.
Whatever may have been the circumstances under which the ghost (if
it is one, which it is hard to believe in these matter-of-fact days) com¬
menced its peculiar promenade, I would recommend those who have the
chance to go to Holy Trinity Church, York, and see for themselves,
though an audience of the apparation cannot always be assured. A
ghost in broad daylight does no harm, frightens no one, and ought to
interest everybody.
A MYSTERIOUS “ GLORY.”
Mu. G. G. Mitchell, of 25, North-bridge, Edinburgh, has favoured
us with a copy of a photograph, containing in one corner a striking
figure with radiating arms, resembling a systematically-designed and
very beautiful “ glory.” The image in question is larger than half-a-
crown, and the scientific men who unexpectedly obtained it are unable
to account for its presence. The following is Mr. Mitchell’s letter,
which is dated May 5th, 1876:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Dear Sir, —I take the liberty of enclosing a photograph of a peculiar
photographic figure, which was got in the physical laboratory of the
University here lately. It was again shown before the Edinburgh
Photographic Society on Wednesday evening last, but no satisfactory
explanation could be offered regarding it. I enclose the statement of
Mr. Matheson as to how it was obtained, thinking it would be of
interest to you. You will doubtless have observed the matter noticed
at some length in the British Journal of Photography for April 14th.
G. G. M.
The following is Mr. Matheson’s report on the “ glory ” in
question:—
19, Northumberland-street, Edinburgh, 3rd May, 1876.
This figure appeared on development of a photograph of the spectrum
of the electric spark, a large number of which were, last summer, taken
by Mr. W. W. J. Nicol, M.A. (Member of the Photo. Soc.), and myself,
in the Physical Laboratory of the University.
It—being a complete puzzle to us—was at once shown to Professor
Tait, who could not, however, suggest any probable cause arising from
our apparatus, and he subsequently laid it before the Royal Society
without any light being thrown upon its origin.
Our apparatus consisted of—1. The camera; 2, Lens (quartz); 3. Prism
4. Tube (pasteboard), through which the light passed from the slit to the
prism; 5. Slit; 6. Spark passing between the metal (lead) points; 7. Coil
(Ruhmkorff) from which the electricity was conducted to the points by five
iron- wires ; and, 8. Battery of three largo Bunsen cells which were kept
upstairs, in order to avoid the fumes, and connected with the coil by the usual
copper wires.
The chemical and visible foci of the lens not being coincident we found
the chemical focus by experiment. On this occasion our camera had
been slightly moved from its place, and the portion of spectrum seen on
the plate is thus rather out of focus. Beyond this, however, the con¬
ditions in no way—so far as we could judge—differed from those under
which at least three dozen plates were taken both before and after
without the shadow of any similar appearance, so that we may be said
practically to have experimented in order to reproduce it.
The exposure in general lasted from two to ten minutes, the plates
being kept moist by a solution of nitrate of magnesia; in this instance
it was three minutes. No daylight was admitted to the room, our
working light being supplied by a large yellow glass lantern, which
threw its light entirely away from the camera.
The only metal knobs from which—as has been suggested—light
could, in any circumstances, have been reflected on the lens, were in
connection with the coil, and were so far to one side, and so much
stained by acids, that I do not think it possible they could have pro¬
duced any such effect. Alexr, Matheson, M.A.
Mr. Harrison has sent the following reply:—
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
London, May 9th, 1876.
Dear Sir,—Recently in trying some photographic experiments of an
unusual nature, I met with results resembling the one you enclose in
two Or. three essential points, but not in all. I employed the wet plate
glycerine process, by which the plate is kept damp for twenty-four
hours or more, and in conjunction with Mr. Charles Blackburn, of
| j| Manchester, and Mr. Cromwell F. Varley, was attempting to photo-
I (! graph the alleged odic light from magnets seen by Baron Reichenbaeh’s
|j| sensitives. On some of the plates I obtained beautiful figures, con-
II i sisting of fine curved lines radiating from centres, and in some instances
j(i extending from a central point over an area larger than that covered by
i |; the corona in the photograph you enclose me. The figures differed
j/j from yours chiefly in the circumstance that they were not so intense,
iu and the lines were finer, fainter, and more numerous; still, the general
| (j effect was as beautiful as that which you have sent me.
j)j My unexpected results at first puzzled me greatly, but after a time
|(j I noticed that I obtained the figures in the greatest perfection upon
| j I those films on which the largest amount of drying had taken place;
!) | I could not get the images at all • upon a plate freshly taken out of
i (| the bath. In tracing out the cause still further, I noticed that the centre
j j| of each corona began at the spot upon which I poured on the developer,
i (i hence I came to the conclusion that microscopic crystals of nitrate of
r | silver and organic matter had began to form upon the plate, and that
j j j when I poured the developer upon these they were dislodged and washed
j (j over the film in lines radiating from a centre. Their faintness, as com-
III pared with yours, I attribute to the circumstance that the glycerine pre-
j )j servative contained but four or five grains of free nitrate of silver to the
! i ounce, whereas the liquid upon your plate contained probably thirty
I >| grains to the ounce. In short, I think that what you have sent me is a
I (i phenomenon due chiefly to the drying of the plate in consequence of its
j.sj having been too long out of the bath; if you re-examine the plate, to
i j see by the thumb-mark at which corner it was held, you will perhaps
j (] discover that the centre of the glory is just where the.particular opera-
i \ j tor is in the habit of pouring on the developer. If the phenomenon is
|)| not due to the drying of the plate, perhaps there was a floating pellicle
[(j on the surface of the developer, of some dust or chemical substance
iji tending to rapidly decompose nitrate of silver.
| /1 I have read nothing but what you h ave sent me about your photograph;
| (| but I do not attribute the origin of the figure to that “ Unseen Universe,"
111 of which Professor Tait has written so much, but the existence of which
i)i he has such an antipathy to seeing practically proved by actual facts.
; j! His courtesy during my short British Association visit to Edinburgh I
i | remember with pleasure, and am pleased to see that knowledge is now
i < j being sought from spiritual sources by scientific men in Edinburgh—I
i | hope, at the instigation of Professor Tait. The “ glory ” appears to me
I/; to have had a purely physical origin, which it was within the province
| j j of Professor Tait to explain.
If I can find any of my own plates mentioned in this letter, I will
1(1 send one for your inspection.—Very truly yours,
William H. Harrison.
j | G, G. Mitchell, Esq.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PRIVATE LIFE.
j(| Many spirit circles are held and manifestations obtained among
I j private families, particulars in relation to which seldom come beneath
j j the public notice. We have just received from a lady the following
j(| interesting narrative relating to one such circle:—
|(| A friend of mine who did not believe in Spiritualism sat a few days
; }i ago at a table, in company with an acquaintance or two, for fun ; after
I 1 they had sat for about five minutes the tables and chairs walked by
iji themselves. There was moonlight in the room at the time. They at
i ji first had tiltings, which came with considerable power; next came raps.
! j Then they took apiece of paper and a pencil, and put them under the
I (j table; some direct writing was obtained ; they struck a light and read:
i ij “ Beware ! You are not what you seem! I will appear!” One of the
|j| sitters, much alarmed, said: “ Oh, pray, don’t appear! I cannot bear
j u it!” The paper was again placed under the table, and the pencil wrote
i ; the answer: “Be not afraid, I am watching over you; you will get
iji your heart’s desire.” After that they had more raps and tiltings ; then
j (j a chair from another part of the room walked up to them, and the table
| j rose in the air. This was the first sitting.
ij| After the lapse of two weeks we sat again, with myself and another
i (i friend present. During the first ten minutes we obtained nothing, per-
| j | haps because new elements were present in the circle; but after the
iji lapse of ten minutes the table began to shake; it next tilted, but no
iji raps came. Afterwards we obtained a few faint raps, then suddenly
iji one of us was illuminated with a brilliant phosphorescent light; it was
|ji a very strong light, and all of us saw it; we had darkened the room,
| j | and it came near a partly open shutter. The young lady who was thus
|jj illuminated shrieked, and appeared as if she were going to faint; she
|j| rushed out of the room, saying she would not sit any more ; the rest of
ijl us remained at the table, but obtained nothing. After a short break we
| j i sat again, and nothing took place ; then we all went to supper. After
ij supper the same party went back, with the exception of the young
iji lady who had been frightened, and myself. She said that she
i j i was quite satisfied that the illumination which came over her
iji was not due to any light suddenly thrown in through the partially
i j i open shutter. Soon our friends came out of the seance room, having
i j | obtained nothing but a few tilts and raps, and they were going to bed
i j i tired and disappointed. I said to them that they had better sit again
ij| in the dining room, as it was ten o’clock, and very nearly the proper
i j hour for ghosts. We sat round a little table which soon began to tilt,
i j | rap, and rise high in the air, until we were obliged to stand up in order
ij| to let it rise as far as it wished. After that, we joined hands without
Ii (| touching the table, and the table walked about while our hands were
away from it. In this way it marched with deliberate and measured
steps half down the room all by itself. This was in the dark, so we
| struck a light in order to see it in the act of walking ; the moment the
| light was struck the table came down with a bang and moved no more.
When the room was darkened again it finished its walk, then remained
still. We said, “ Do come back, table,” audit came back,
220
THE SHIHITtlALIST.
May 12, 1876.
A week later we held a third sitting with the same friends; another j j
visitor and my Italian maid were also present. We had indistinct raps j(
at first, then the large table rushed about frantically while our hands i (
were upon it; this was in the dark. Next, three or four of us were ))
touched; in one case a hand was felt. I am almost sure I heard two j
chairs walking about near me, hut the others present did not hear them, j j
Then we struck a light, and after a time we sat again in darkness, and |)
saw lights on the table like fire-flies. The table rushed about again j j
frantically, after three or four of us had left it, and jumped up in the i j
air whenever a gentleman present asked it to do so. Whatever we j /
asked, it tried to do. It ran round the room and banged against the |(
large table, then flew over that table and came down over the other side j j
while nobody was touching it.
HOW TO BE HAPPY. I
A well-known and highly-esteemed social reformer, Adin j
Ballou was one of the first in America to recognise the j
reality and the importance of spiritual manifestations, and he j
courageously and intelligently avowed his faith in a treatise, |
which was afterwards reprinted in this country, with an excel- j
lent preface by Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool. As he j
was wise with the experience of a long life spent in more j
than usually deep social study, Mrs. Tebb, once his pupil, j
addressed to him the inquiry;—
“ What are the true sources of happiness for the indi- j
vidual man or woman ?” |
In a letter dated 4th June, 1875, she was rewarded with j
the following admirable reply, which she reasonably argues |
should not be reserved for private appropriation :
“I. Happiness depends chiefly on the individual’s internal j
conditions of body and mind and spirit, not very much on |
mere externals. Most people imagine the contrary, and j
therefore bemoan their disappointment.
“II. Right internal conditions of body, mind, and spirit j
are tho se of health, reason, and moral order. Most people I
neglect or violate the laws of health, reason, and moral |
order, and therefore are sickly, unreasonable, and im- !
moral—/.&, physically, intellectually and morally sinful j
and miserable.
“III. How are we to be internally right in body, mind, |
and spirit? By fidelity to the highest light, and openness |
to still higher light. Most people are unfaithful to their I
highest light, and repellent of higher, therefore they sin j
and are miserable. Many of them persistently adhere to !
customs, fashions, and habits which they know to be un- j
healthful, irrational, and vicious, yet complain that they are j
unhappy.
“ IY. A minor yet important amount of happiness depends I
on right association in the circles of home and intimate j|
friendship. If families selected intimates, and business part- i
nerships were made up of rightly conditioned individuals or |
those conscientiously striving to be such, their communion j
would be pure, sweet, and elevating. Few consider this, and |
many therefore are unhappy. We ought to be the friends of |
all mankind, but must rely on select association in the i
family and small circles of intimate friends for happiness ||
outside of individual self-hood. Yet too many seem to make |
home and select friendship only tents from which they sally j
out far and wide in quest of happiness. They rove for plea- |
sure, and come home to frown and groan and get ready to |
rove again. Is it strange they are miserable ?
“V. The ancient axioms, 4 Study to want less rather than !
to have more,’ ‘Abstain that you may enjoy,’ point the way to ||
true happiness. But the majority reverse these. They pile I
artificial wants like 4 Alps on Alps,’ and multiply their in- I
dulgences even unto death. It is no mystery why they are I
unhappy though in the highest ranks of the world.
44 YI. Just and modest self-respect is indispensable to |
true happiness. But most people seek the admiration of j
others as their chief delight, live a life of external show, j
and die of false approbation. j
“YII. Honestly acquired competence—the mean between j
poverty and riches—is most necessary to serene happiness ; i
but few really believe this, and make mammon their god, jj
who fails nine-tenths of his votaries, and palsies the other |j
tenth with luxury or avarice. !
“YIII. An unenvious, unrevengeful, forbearing spirit, |
which seeks to overcome evil with good only, is indispensable i
to pure happiness. Yet the majority of mankind, as in- !
dividuals, communities, and nations, expend a large portion i
of their time and resources in resenting insults, retaliating ij
injuries, and crushing out offenders and enemies with deadly
force. Still they wonder they are miserable.
44IX. The love and worship of one All-Perfect Heavenly
Father, imbibing His spirit and imitating His example, even
unto pure Christ-likeness, insure happiness. Yet millions
ascribe to Him the attributes and spirit of an infinite and
vindictive despot, worship Him as such, and treat their
fellow-creatures accordingly. This they call religion, and
are of course miserable.
44 X. Finally, we must regard ourselves as immortal
spirits, kindred to innumerable others throughout immensity,
and destined to an eternity of discipline and progress. This
in order to a just estimate of ourselves and others, in order
to treat ourselves wisely and others fraternally, in order to
moral elevation and happiness. Yet how few realise this!
How many live and die sensualists. Still they wonder that
they are miserable.
44 But I must refrain. It is easier to play the guide-board
than traveller, the preacher than the exemplar, to expatiate
on the sources and precepts of happiness than to practise the
dictates of wisdom. What I have been dashing off will
hardly meet your wishes, or afford you edification. I do not
write for the press or the public in these sheets, but hastily
and suggestively for friendly eyes. Much of it is old and
commonplace in the testimonies of moral philosophers.
Still it is not the less true and valuable. To me it certainly
is honest and deep conviction. Make the best of it you can,
and drink from purer fountains, wherever you find them.”
The wisdom of these councils we shall all confess; but
the will to perform is what we lack, and know not how to
obtain. When Thackeray lay sick one day, George Hodder
asked him whether he had had good medical advice. 44 Cer¬
tainly,” was his reply, 44 but what is the use of advice if you
don’t follow it ? They tell me not to drink, and I do drink.
They tell me not to smoke, and I do smoke. They tell me
not to eat, and I do eat. In short, I do everything that I
am desired not to do, and therefore what am I to expect ?”
Such confession, with variations, we have all to make.
Nevertheless if we are to be saved from misery, we must
discover what is right and do it; and as we do right, we gain
strength to do better, and in the pleasantness of well-doing
are gradually established.
Trance Lectures in Newcastle.—Mr. Morse lectured twice on Sun¬
day last. The subject in the afternoon was “ Revelation, Inspiration,
and Intuition;” Mr. Hare occupied the chair. The subject in the
evening was “ Nature and Revelation.” Mr. Adshead was the chair¬
man, and the meeting was fully attended, all seats being occupied.
On Wednesday, May 3rd, the usual monthly soiree of the National
Association of Spiritualists was held at the Rooms of the Association,
38, Great Russell-street. The evening was spent in conversation,
music, and the inspection of various objects of interest. Among these
was one of Mr. Crookes’s radiometers, illustrating that eminent
chemist’s late discovery with regard to the action of light. The Asso¬
ciation soiree choir, under the direction of Miss Withall, sang some
glees in their very best manner, and two ladies gave some solos.
Foreign Spiritual Periodicals.—For the convenience of the public
single copies of many Spiritual periodicals now published in foreign
countries may be obtained at the branch office of The Spiritualist news¬
paper, but the cheapest plan of obtaining them is to subscribe for them
by the year. Among the periodicals of good quality not yet much
known in this country is the American Spiritual Magazine. Originally
it was the same size as the English Spiritual Magazine, but recently it
has been considerably enlarged; it is slightly orthodox in its tone, and
contains carefully-selected matter. Another handsomely-printed Ame¬
rican Spiritual magazine is the Little Bouquet, of Chicago. This is a
neatly-bound and printed monthly periodical, designed for the use of
children, in which respect it differs from any journal published in
connection with the movement.
“ The Trapped Medium.”—The Western Daily Mercury of April
24th, says of Mr. Reimers’ brochure, The Trapped Medium (London :
Harrison):—“ Mr. Christian Reimers, the author of the little work
before us, is evidently an ardent Spiritualist, and in his amusing
description of two clever sceptics, takes care, like Dr. Johnson did in his
reporting, not to let his adversaries have the best of the argument.
Professor Molecule and Dr. Protoplaster submit the medium to all kinds
in tests, and the futile result of their endeavours is not only explained
of the text, but humorously exhibited in illustrations. From trifling
inconveniences up to gunpowder, nothing, according to Mr. Reimers,
comes amiss to the medium and the spirits—dynamite apparently
remains to be tried. The professor and the doctor at length retire from
the contest, overcome, if not convinced. Whether Mr. Reimers will
make converts to Spiritualism by his booklet is doubtful; in any case
his readers will be amused and interested, without being offended. Mr.
Reimers has on this occasion placed all the dogmatism in the mouths of
the non-Spiritualists."
THE SElHlTtTAEiST.
r Mat 1^, 1876.
221
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN THE LIGHT.
The usual Vfiekly seance at these rooms, with Mr. Willie
Eglinton asjHeelium, was attended by Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. J. Romanes, Captain Rolleston, Mr. W. L. Caney, Mr.
W. Millard, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Mrs. Michel 1, Mr.
Charles Wellsden, Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sc., (Lecturer
on Anatomy at Westminster Hospital); Mr. D. G. Fitz¬
Gerald, M. S. Tel. E. (who represented the Seance Com¬
mittee of the Association), and myself.
Two gentlemen from the circle were selected as r tying
committee,” and after they had done their work most
effectively, and we had seated ourselves in readiness to
begin, the voice of “Joey,” the presiding intelligence at
Mr. Eglinton’s seances, proclaimed from the cabinet that the
tying must all be undone, as he had determined to try for
physical manifestations in the light, and he wished the
medium to be placed in a different position altogether. On
asking “ Joey” why he had allowed us to take so much
trouble for nothing, he replied that he had rapped as loud
as he could while the gentlemen were in the cabinet, but
could not arrest their attention. This statement was borne
out by the fact that two or three present, including myself,
had heard the sounds, but had taken them to be those of a
distant hammer.
* Following Joey’s directions, I sewed Mr. Eglinton’s coat
sleeves together behind his back, near the wrist, with strong
white cotton; the tying committee then bound him in his
chair, passing the tape round his neck, and placed him close
behind the curtain, facing the company, with his knees and
feet in sight. A small round table, with various objects upon
it, was placed before the medium; the little stringed instru¬
ment, known as the Oxford chimes, was laid inverted across
his knees, and a book and hand-bell were placed upon it.
In a few moments the strings were played upon, though no
visible hand was touching them; the book, the front of
which was turned towards the sitters, opened and shut (this
was repeated a great number of times, so that all present
saw the experiment unmistakably); and the hand-bell was
rung from within, that is, without being raised from the
board. The musical box placed near the curtain, but fully
in sight, was stopped and set going, while the lid remained
shut.
Fingers, and at times a whole hand, were now and then
protruded through the curtain. An instant after one of these
had appeared, Captain Rolleston was requested to thrust his
arm through the curtain, and ascertain whether the tying and
sewing were as at first. He satisfied Jiimself that they were,
and the same testimony was given by another gentleman
later on.
This was the first part of the seance. Mr. Eglinton was
released from his bonds, and it was found that the muscles
of his arms were in a cramped condition from the constrained
attitude he had been forced to maintain. As all the sitters
expressed their opinion that the manifestations were beyond
a doubt genuine and convincing, it was agreed that a second
short sitting should be held without putting the medium into
bonds.
Mr. Eglinton sat, however, so close behind the curtain
that on one occasion, when a large bare foot had been pro¬
truded, the sitters nearest the cabinet drew back the curtain,
with “ Joey’s” permission, and showed Mr. Eglinton asleep
or entranced, with his boots on his feet. Something like a
face appeared between the curtains, but some of us were not
at all sure about it. “Joey” asked for paper and pencil,
and in another moment handed the paper out of the side
window of the cabinet, with the word ? Evoe J. S. in Greek
characters upon it. “ Joey” explained that he meant to
express by this his joy that some friend in the cabinet had
succeeded in materialising a face. E. Kislingbury.
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Dr. Carter Blake has favoured us with the following
critical remarks about the word “ Evoe,” given by direct
spirit writing at the foregoing seance:—
The direct writing “ Evoe” is of interest. The three first
letters of this Latin interjection or exclamation are certainly
in Greek letters, but the fourth letter, as purporting to have
been written by “ Joey,” may be ordinary Roman character,
or scrawl. Mr. Eglinton informs me that he is not
acquainted with the Greek language. I do not make this
statement with a view to disparage him. It will of course be
hardly necessary to remind those readers who have forgotten
their Horace, that “ Evoe ” (from Gr. evoi; oe, Latin, and
oi, Greek, being considered by all, except perhaps Mr. Ellis,
as convertible diphthongs), was, as Littleton puts it, “A
voice or noise that Bacchus’ priests did use.” Some have
speculated that it was a cry by Syrian or Jewish Bacchic
priests on the name love ! Jahve ! (vulgarly, Jehovah !) the
sacred and unpronounceable name, which the Jews adored.
It is singular to have such a word given, assumedly from
the spirit of a clown, as it is more than probable that a
certain accent on the first syllable may have a signi¬
fication which all the Talmudists will understand, but which
can only be read in type not often employed, but which the
late Mr. G. R. Gliddon frequently used. Another theory
may suggest that “ Evoe ” may be a bad spelling for “ Joey”
himself. For several reasons I should doubt this, as I see
no cause for the elision of the first guttural. The substi¬
tution of a short for a long (and the o is so distinctly
accented, that a u might as well have been given), and the
uncertain (as to character) terminal vowel. The conditions
under which the “ message ” was given were undoubtedly
honest on Mr. Eglinton’s part. C. 0. Blake.
| i The “ Book of Mediums.”—The Book of Mediums, by Allan Kardee,
\ \ translated into English by Miss Blackwell, has been published this
) | week, and copies may be obtained at The Spiritualist newspaper branch
11 office. It is needless to say that the work of the translator has been
! most efficiently performed.
| Test Physical Manifestations.—Some physical phenomena took
11 place on Thursday evening at Newcastle, through the mediumship of
) j Miss Fairlamb, and were eminently satisfactory on account of the con*
j; ditions under which they took place. The medium was seated in front
j I of the curtains of the cabinet, in full view of the sitters, who numbered
) i about a dozen, including Messrs. Armstrong, Robson, Walton, Rhodes,
|: Mrs. Fairlamb, Miss Coltman, and one or two visitors. In addition to
j i other ordinary phenomena, two long cardboard tubes were protruded
) | simultaneously from each side of the cabinet, and playfully stroked and
j | struck those nearest to it, according to requests made; and to remove
j all suspicion from the medium—who was conscious, and not bound—
| one of the sitters exclaimed—“ Show your hands, Miss Fairlamband
j | she immediately held up both. While they were so held up the tubes
|; were visible to all, moving about briskly and with no small amount of
) I force. Any theory of the possibility of trickery on the part of the
I; medium was not worthy of a moment’s consideration; even had she not
| been requested to hold her hands up, it would have been extremely
difficult, if not impossible, for her to have reached inside the cabinet, to
! pick up the tubes, to extend her arms, to put the tubes out, and then
strike the sitters with unerring accuracy on each side at the same time.
Moreover, it would have been necessary that she should not have been
seen doing it by the dozen persons looking at her.
The Shereefa Sidi-El-Hadj-Abd-es-Salem.—Those who attended
I Mrs. Yarley’s private spirit circles some years ago, will remember Miss
Keene, who was present at some of them, and displayed slight medial
powers which she did not cultivate. Afterwards she was married to the
Grand Shereef at Tangiers, and the circumstance involved him in
political difficulties, it being then considered a reprehensible thing for a
) i man in his sacred office to marry a Christian. The Evening Standard
j of May 4th last, says:—“The Grand Shereef, Sidi-El-Hadj-Abd-es-
| Salem, who had recently paid a visit to the Ouled Sidi Cheikh, and
| prevailed upon their leader, Si Soliman ben Kaddour, to disband his
| forces, has prematurely returned to his seat near Tangiers. The Ouled
| Sidi Cheikh, it may be as well to explain, is an Arab chief living on the
! borders of Algeria and Morocco, and had been lately making himself
I intensely disagreeable to the French. It is agreeable to learn that the
Shereef, whose services were called into requisition as Head Pacificator,
has succeeded in his mission ; but it is painful to add that there was a
little difference between * El Santo ’ (which, we are informed, is the
Shereef’s designation amongst the faithful), and the people who were under
obligations to him. The French authorities refused to permit the Mussul-
i man dignitary to go to certain places which he was desirous of visiting,
because of a revolt and hostile feeling there prevalent. It is said the
French are desirous to arrest this insurrection with their own forces,
and do not wish to be beholden to the Shereef for success, fearing the
people might think him their superior, and that they could not manage
without his help. An interesting peculiarity in connection with the
Shereef’s journey is the fact that he was accompanied by his wife, an
English lady of distinguished appearance, dressed in the latest European
fashion, and carrying in her arms her little son, Mulai Ali, who is now
nearly two years old. On the Shereef’s triumphal entry into the city
of Tlemcen, we are told, the child was loudly cheered by the populace,
11 who considered his birth a proof of the blessing of Allah upon the
[ | Shereef’s marriage with a Christian. Surely, there must be a change
11 coming over the spirit of Mohammedanism,”
THE SPIBtTUALIST.
22^
May 12, 1876.
A SPIRIT MATERIALISING UNDER THE EYES OF THE I
OBSERVERS IN MANCHESTER. . ’ j
BY WILLIAM OXLEY. j 5
A most remarkable series of Spiritualistic phenomena, |
through the joint mediumship of Dr. Monck and Mrs. , I)
culminated in the gift of the secrets of materialisation, on | (
Wednesday evening last week (May 3rd, 1876), at the house | |
of Mr. , Manchester, which, in the case of genuine \)
manifestations, sets the matter at rest concerning the modus \ (
operandi. It provides also a golden key (to those who know j
how to use it), to unlock the mystery of matter and nature, n
and demonstrates the truth of the philosophic axiom uttered j<
by the illustrious Swedenborg a century ago, viz., ((That the |
natural universe is produced through man, and that all ,j$j
objective appearances presented to the external sight, are m
the exact representatives of the spiritual universe, or of that j j
which is contained within the inner consciousness of life of j$j
humanity.” , - U;j
The system of transcendental philosophy enunciated in the j !
writings of Swedenborg, yields to the spiritual man of | |
science all that is required to unravel the mighty problem of j$j
life in all its infinite variety of organic and inorganic forms ; j|j
the verbiage or words in which it is given are for the use of I ;
the intellectual faculty alone to understand; the meaning or | |
application of the ideas contained within the words to the i I
actual forms themselves, belongs to a still more interior j j
faculty, which Swedenborg calls the perception; this, in m
reality, is the interior consciousness of the human spirit | i
itself, and forms the ego of mankind, or the consciousness jl
of being what we are. The question of spirit identity or j j
individuality, that is, the connexion existing between the jlj
appearance of materialised or non-materialised spirit forms, I I
and the personalities they formerly possessed in earth life, is ]||
a very intricate problem, and not easily disposed of to the j |
satisfaction of those who cannot see in themselves anything I j
more than a separate and distinct individuality. So far as I I
my observation and experience extend, it would appear that j j
the more recently deceased personalities are able to establish i I
their identity, as we understand this term; but others who I j
have progressed to higher or more interior states of j j
existence, give names not so much applicable to personality j j
as to certain qualities which are involved in the interior j j
meaning of the names they give to themselves; and yet with I I
each one there are idiosyncrasies whereby one cannot be mis- I I
taken or confounded with another. All these questions will j |
form subject-matter for the thoughtful student of spiritual j||
philosophy, and works about them will be forthcoming in I ]
future generations, as the world is prepared to receive and 111
understand interior and spiritual truth. 11
The display of the wondrous power of modern medium- j j
ship is as yet but in its infancy, and considering the ill-usage | I
to which mediums have been and are still subject, from so- jlj
called friends and foes, it is marvellous that so much has j \ I
been accomplished. Making the fullest allowance for cases j I
of imposture or fraud, which I believe are few and far j j
between, and are probably more due to the desire of mediums j I
to satisfy the cravings of curiosity, and the demands of j j
sitters—who must have something for their money—than to j j
wicked intention, there remains a number of highly gifted j j
mediums who, if surrounded with sympathetic spirits in and j j
out of the flesh, possess powers which can be utilised for the j jl
resolution of the greatest problems presented to the human I I
mind. Without trespassing further, I proceed to narrate the I |
facts of the memorable sitting referred to.
There were seven of us, including the two mediums, Dr. I I
Monck and Mrs. . The first part of the evening’s sitting j I
was taken up with matters interesting only to ourselves, with jjj
conversation with the various controls who spoke through I |
Dr. Monck, who sat with us round the table. Then we were j|
informed, by raps, that Dr. Monck was to retire inside jjj
the cabinet, which was formed by two damask curtains sus- I j
pended on an iron rod across one corner of the room. We j j
placed the table close up to the curtains, and took our seats, jjj
the two outermost being within a foot of the curtains ; a fair jjj
light from a gas-lamp enabled us distinctly to see all jjj
objects in the room. “ Samuel,” the spirit, immediately j j
made his presence known, and was the chief speaker and I j
operator, although we had the direct utterances of<( Michael ” j I
and the redoubtable John King, whose voice there is no
mistaking. In a short time the beautiful face of the spirit
Lillie was seen at the opening, adorned with a head-dress
sparkling with luminous symbolic designs. She. asked if
I would like to have a memento of her visit, and whether a
crown of gold would be acceptable, to which I replied that,
considering myself unworthy of that, I should like to have
one. composed of flowers corresponding to her own name.
She then said that she appreciated the lily which we had
presented to her (this was a tree lily with one flower which
I had purchased and placed inside the cabinet), and that
she would materialise some from that lily. In three minutes
she appeared again at the opening with a beautiful wreath
of flowers on her head, and, telling me to go close up to the
curtain, she placed the wreath on my head. To our astonish¬
ment there was actually a wreath composed of lilies of the
valley, white azaleas, and spyaria japonica, from which came
a most delicious odour, filling the whole room. Where on
earth the flowers came from, and the speed with which the
wreath had been made (as certainly but three minutes before
there were no flowers in the house but the one already
referred to) are questions that are easier put than answered.
Several sprigs of leaves and flowers were thrown out from
the cabinet besides the wreath, and, strange to say, these
soon faded, but the wreath kept in good condition all the
next day, when I had it photographed. The flowers were
tastefully arranged around a small branch, and tied with
cotton, which Samuel afterwards told us was taken out of
the pocket of one of the ladies present. The reel of cotton
was found upon the top of the stick supporting the lily tree,
and the lady testified that it was a reel of cotton which she
had previously put into her pocket for domestic use.
Now comes the most extraordinary part of the proceed¬
ings. After the disposal of the wreath, Dr. Monck, still in
trance, and controlled by Samuel, drew aside the curtains
and showed himself and the form of Lillie standing in mid
air fully four feet away from himself; he then closed the
curtains, and, reopening them to their extremities, nothing
but himself was visible. He next stood close to the table,
the curtains still being opened, and from his right side there
issued a thin white vapour, which gradually assumed a form,
at first as of gossamer outline like a garment or robe, which
became more dense or opaque ; then appeared the head with
a crown adorned by a luminous lily; and finally the full
materialised form of Lillie, who spoke to us; she was about
three feet high, with her feet resting on the table, and while
thus standing Dr. Monck, or rather Samuel through him,
handled the drapery, showing us that it was real and
material. This was repeated three times, the materialised
form gradually dissolving each time before our eyes. The
fourth time, when the form was fully completed, Lillie
floated up two feet above the curtain, which was partially
drawn, and while Dr. Monck was clapping his hands and
looking up and speaking to her, Lillie moved her lips, and
bowed to us several times, she then descended and stood in
mid air about a foot away from the medium, and dissolved
away while we were all gazing at the wondrous scene.
After this the medium closed the curtains, and sat down
on his chair. In a few minutes he awoke out of his trance,
and came out. While we all stood talking over the wonders
we had witnessed, several flowers, white azalias, fell from
the ceiling; one of them I picked up and placed between
the leaves of my pocket-book, intending to preserve it, but
on opening it the next morning to take out the flower not a
trace of it was left; it had vanished.
The other medium had had a gold ring taken from her
some weeks ago by the spirit Mike, and as he spoke to us by
the direct voice he was asked if he still had the ring, to
which he replied that he had, and immediately it was thrown
out from the cabinet, with a request that I w’ould take it to
the light and see certain lettei’s on it which would certify if
it was the same. I found the marks, and presenting it to
the lady she declared it was the identical ring. The singu¬
larity of this affair is that it was taken away at Mr. Renners’
house some weeks ago, of which Dr. Monck knew nothing,
and it was returned at the house where we were sitting (two
miles away from the other), with Dr. Monck as medium.
The history of the taking away and return of the pencil re-
223
May 12. 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
ferred to in my last was very similar, but I feel I may not
enlarge further, so leave the facts to speak for themselves.
It is needful to state that the light from a gas jet though
subdued was yet quite sufficient for us to see distinctly the
features of the spirit-form and medium; so distinct were
they that a friend who saw the spirit-forms on a previous
occasion declared “ that he could swear to them wherever he
saw them.” On this occasion the form was that which we
know as Lillie; the face is round and plump and well
defined, and as unlike the medium’s as two faces could pos¬
sibly be, the eyes small and brilliant, the hair in curls of
golden hue, and the hands small and beautifully formed;
when the other spirit Bertie appears she is invariably some¬
what shorter in stature than Lillie, although, strange to say,
on this occasion Lillie appeared to be not more than three
feet high, while on other occasions we have seen her a little
above four feet high.
The spirit-form known as Bertie has rather an oval face,
with curls of a dark auburn colour and somewhat prominent
nose, whereas Lillie’s is wider ; altogether the face and
bodily outlines are so distinct and defined that it is impos¬
sible to mistake one for the other, and when fully
formed the only thing that distinguishes them from our¬
selves is that they are more beautiful to look upon and
more comely to behold.
We have seen the head and bust of the spirit Mike (but
not the whole form); he has a large massive round head,
well proportioned, with small piercing dark eyes, a mous¬
tache and thick beard of a jet black colour, and appears
with a white turban. None of these forms have that
ghastly white observable in many of the spirit faces so fre¬
quently seen, but have a shade of colour which makes their
countenances pleasant to look upon. I have been particular
in these narrations, as details are of great consequence, and I
assure you that the facts are under rather than overstated.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, May 5th, 1875.
WELL-AUTHENTICATED APPARITIONS OF DYING
PERSONS.*
By Hensleigh Wedgwood.
u In the early part of the last century, a member of the
Society of Friends, living at Settle, in Craven, had to
take a journey to the borders of Scotland. She left
her family under the care of a relation, who, instead
of sending frequent letters in those days of slow and
expensive communication between distant places, engaged
to keep a minute journal, to be transmitted to the mother
at any convenient opportunity, of all that concerned her
three little children, aged seven, six, and four. After an
absence of three weeks, when on her homeward way, she
was seized with illness at Cockermouth, and died in a
few days, even before the husband at Settle could hear
by post of the commencement of her illness. The season
was winter, when, in the mountainous border-land between
the counties, the conveyance of letters by postmen on foot
was an especially lengthened and difficult process. The
friends at whose house the event occurred, seeing the hope¬
less nature of the attack, made notes of every circumstance
attending the last hours of the dying wife and mother, for
the satisfaction of her family, so that the accuracy of the
several statements as to time as well as facts was be¬
yond the doubtfulness of mere memory, or of any even
unconscious attempt to bring them into agreement with
each other. One morning between seven and eight o’clock,
on the relation at Settle going into the sleeping-room of
the three children, she found them all sitting up in their
beds in great excitement and delight, crying out, ‘ Mamina
has been here! Mamma has been here!’ And the little
one said, ‘She called, “Come, Esther!”’ Nothing could
make them doubt the fact, intensely visible as it was to
each of them; and it was carefully noted down to entertain
the mother on her speedily expected return to her home.
That same morning, as she lay on her dying bed at Cocker-
mouth, to those who were watching her tenderly and lis¬
tening for her latest breath, she said, ‘ I should be ready
* A communication read on Thursday, last week, before the Psychological
Society of Great Britain.
I f to go if I could but see my children.’ She then closed her
i | eyes, they thought to reopen them no more, but after ten
(p minutes of perfect stillness she looked up brightly and said,
m ‘I am ready now, I have been with my children,’ and then
j j at once peacefully passed away. When the notes taken at
| ] the two places were compared, the day, hour, and minute
| | were the same. One of the three children was my grand-
i | mother, Sarah Birkbeck (daughter of William Birkbeck,
| | banker, of Settle), afterwards wife of Dr. Fell, of Ulver-
| | stone, from whom I had the above, almost literally as I
| | have repeated it. The elder was Morris Birkbeck, after-
j j wards of Guildford. Both these lived to old age, and re¬
in tained to the last so solemn and reverential a remembrance
l | of the circumstance that they rarely would speak of it, or
j | permit any allusion to it, lest it should be treated with
in doubt or levity. Esther, the youngest of the three, died
i I soon after. Her brother and sister only heard the child say
| | that her mother called her, but could not speak with any
| | certainty of having themselves heard the words, nor did
1 j they seem sensible of any communication from her, but
I ! simply of her standing there and looking on them. My
i I grandmother and her brother were both persons remarkable
| | for strong matter-of-fact, rather than imaginative, minds,
I I and to whom it was especially difficult to accept anything
j/j on faith, or merely hearsay evidence, and who by nature
| | would be disposed to reject whatever seemed beyond the
l| region of reason or of common experience; but their early
| | impression of the supernatural made them, not superstitious,
I) I but devout believers in the truths of Divine revelation, and
! | in the mysteries of the soul’s relation to the unseen and
j I spiritual world. S. H. Fox.”
I i j “ Treban, near Falmouth. 1872.”
Communicated to me by Mrs. Backhouse, wife of E. Back-
j)| house, Esq., M.P. for Darlington, and daughter of Mrs. Fox.
H. Wedgwood.
iji April, 1876.
I may add that the interest of the foregoing narrative is
jj| greatly enhanced by comparison with the story of Mary
|(| Goffe, first published by Baxter and better known, from the
| | Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, by R. Dale
||| Owen. In June, 1691, Mary Goffe lay dying at her father’s
k| house, at Mailing, about nine miles from Rochester, where
| i she had left her two little children. When she felt herself
i | hear her end, she expressed a vehement desire to go and die
j j I with her children, and begged her husband to hire a horse
| | for that purpose. When told that she could not get out of
|>i bed, nor sit on a horse, she begged them to try. t If I can-
||j not sit,” said she, “ I will lie all along upon the horse, for
!>j I must go to see my poor babes.” Between, one and two in
|)| the morning she fell into a trance : her eyes were open, her
!jj jaw fallen. The nurse who sat up with her, doubted
| | whether she were alive or dead. The next morning she
i)| told her mother that she had been at home with her children.
I] | “ That is impossible,” said her mother, “ for you have been
||| in bed all the while.” “Yes,” replied the other, “but I
\)\ was with them last night when I was asleep.”
The same night, a little before two, the nurse at Rochester
||| saw the likeness of Mary Goffe come out of the next
b j chamber (in which the eldest child slept), and stand by her
| bedside for a quarter of an hour. Her eyes moved, and her
||| mouth went, but she said nothing. The nurse sat up in bed
|)| and looked steadfastly on the apparition, and finally
H| adjured it to say who it was. It went away, and the nurse
Pi slipped on her clothes and followed, and not seeing what
bj became of it, became grievously affrighted, and walked about
Hi upon the wharf for some hours, until at six o’clock she was
j I taken into a neighbour’s house, to whom she related all that
m had happened, and confidently affirmed, “ If ever I saw her
Hi in all my life, I saw her this night.”
In the course of the morning the neighbour was sent for
|)| to Mailing, where she found Mrs. Goffe dying. The mother
Hj told her how much her daughter had longed to see her chil-
I I dren, and said she had seen them, which brought to the
111 woman’s mind what the nurse had told her at Rochester,
Hi which till then she had regarded as the dream of a dis-
| | tempered fancy.
The clergyman who writes the account to Baxter, had it
H| immediately after the funeral, from Mrs. Goffe’s father, and
THE SPIIlITTJAIilST.
May 12,1876.
224
within a week or two after, he examined everybody con- 11
cerned in the narrative ; the sick nnrse who sat up with her, j (
the children’s nurse at Rochester, the neighbour who took j
her in, and Mrs. Goffe’s mother. j
HOW THE TIMES SETTLES THE QUESTION OF THE j
REALITY OF APPARITIONS. |
Me. Wedgwood, the author of the preceding paper, will j
be pleased to see how The Times newspaper of April 19th I
explains to the intelligent British public the real nature of |j
apparitions such as he has described :— j
“In the case of so-called ‘apparitions’ it is welk-known I
that a visible appearance, which is ordinarily due to an j
image formed in the eye by the light reflected from an |
external object, and then conveyed by the optic nerve to a K
certain part of the brain, may be precisely simulated by a !
change which originates in the brain itself even although j
there is no external object, and no visual image. Further- j
more, it is known that a brain change of this kind is pro- !
duced very frequently, and in many states of disordered I
health, and the results of the change are called ‘subjec- j
tive’ sensations, in order to distinguish them from the j
‘objective’ sensations, which are produced in the ordinary j
way. The insane are very liable to subjective sensations |j
which in their case are called ‘hallucinations,’ and |j
which are referred, not to the eyes only, but to other ||
organs also. They see phantoms, but they also hear !
strange voices and smell strange odours. Persons suffering ||
from delirium tremens, whether this has been brought on by ||
drink, or by nervous exhaustion innocently incurred, are j
almost always the subjects of hallucinations ; and they occur
also in far less serious states of emotional excitement or of ||
disturbed circulation.”
Further on, while speaking upon the subject of dreams, |j
the same writer in The Times says : I
“ All are perfectly explicable as natural phenomena. We j
have no space to enter into the necessary explanations, but n
all who desire may find them in a book which we have lately j
noticed—Dr. Carpenter’s Principles of Mental Physio- !
logy. Dreams, in most instances, are results of what Dr. j
Carpenter calls ‘unconscious cerebration’; and the phe- |
nomena of Spiritualism, although naturally more complex, j>
and often additionally complicated by imposture, are easy to n
be understood by those who will take the pains to acquaint {<
themselves with some of the elementary principles of mental
activity.”
This paragraph displays modest advertising proclivities not \{
unlike those of Dr. Carpenter, whose utterances on psycho- !
logical subjects are regarded by Spiritualists who have prac- |
tical knowledge, as the acme of absurdity, as unworthy a ||
moment’s attention, and striking examples of unlimited |
uninformed prepossession. The Editor of The Times, the K
reviewer, and Dr. Carpenter (if the two latter be not the !
same) should try to make their theories fit in with Mr. K
Wedgwood’s facts, and the circumstance that the late Lord !<
° 7 . . i (i
Brougham was so frightened as to jump out of a bath in l<|
London when he saw the apparition of a friend who was then !< |
dying in India, and this before the days of electric telegraphs K
to the East. K
We are very much (says a Yankee editor) of the opinion of Charles j/
Dickens after once attending a seance. Having requested the attend- K
ance of the spirit of Lindley Murray, he was informed that the spectre j)
awaited his questioning. “Are you the spirit of Lindley Murray?” ;)
asked the great author. “ I are,” replied the incorporeal visitor. Mr, :<
Dickens was immediately convinced. So are we. »
The Persecuted Editor oe the “Revue Spirite.”—Letters have j)
been received from M. Leymarie, dated, “Prison de la Sante, 3rd May.” K
He says: “To say that I am happy in this place {que je m'amuse) n.
would be contrary to the truth; nevertheless, I can affirm that our j)
philosophy is a great support to me in my solitude, and when I reflect K
on the cause of my incarceration, I smile in recalling the words of i)
Virgil—‘ How can so much anger enter the hearts of the gods!| My i)
cell is about as large as a cage of tame birds at the Jardin des Plantes, i\
and yet I am said to be an aristocrat, recommande, it is supposed, as a i)
friend of the Home Minister! My occupation is making match k
boxes!” i. I(
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
Ox Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed, after
which the following new members were elected : Captain Kelso, R.N.,
Mr. W. W. Westcott, and the Rev. C. J. Taylor.
Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary secretary, next read a communica¬
tion from Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, which is printed on another page
of this issue.
Mr. George Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., then read the following paper :—
OBJECTIONS TO PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTS EXAMINED.
I propose in a series of very short papers to bring under the notice
of the Psychological Society a few cases of what I consider well estab¬
lished psychological phenomena, some of which have come under my
own notice, while others have been communicated to me by persons of
undoubted credit. Having laid the facts before them, I shall leave it
to the members of the society to draw their own conclusions from the
premises submitted.
Before however I proceed to state the circumstances to which I
advert, I intend in the present preliminary paper, to refer to what
appear to me to be the two principal arguments, the main missiles if I
may so term them, by which the real existence of psychological and
supernatural phenomena of every kind is sought to be attacked, and
which form a line of reasoning that to several persons appears quite
satisfactory and even conclusive.
In many cases of controversy, arguments are adopted by one side or
the other, not because they are the most satisfactory which might be
used, but simply because they best serve the object of the disputant.
Ridicule for instance, comes in very well where reasoning would fail,
and fallacies will do to prop up a falling case, when we are afraid to
try sound logic. The late Mr. Mill well remarked that every new
theory has to stand three different tests. First, it is treated with
absolute scorn. It is next assailed with ridicule of every description.
And if it can stand the brunt of these two ordeals, fair argument is
resorted to to determine its truth. Psychological phenomena have not,
I consider, as yet been subjected to the last of these processes. The
principal arguments by which they are sought to be confuted are those
which attempt to throw scorn and ridicule on the whole system. The
subject is at present deemed by many not to be worth the effort of
sober reasoning.
The two arguments to which I refer as the leading agencies by which
psychology is sought to be stamped out, as we may term it, are :—
1. That in every case of asserted psychological phenomena, the
balance of apparent probability will be found decidedly to preponderate
against it.
2. That each case of this kind will be found on examination to be the
result of delusion or deception.
The term supernatural, as it is commonly used, appears to me to be
open to much objection, and to create a prejudice in inquiries of this
kind, which it is very difficult to dispel. As it is ordinarily applied, it
seems to indicate, or at any rate to assume, or admit, that the
phenomena alluded to are contrary to the regular course of nature, and
so ought not to command credit; whereas in reality all that it implies
is that they are contrary to or beyond our own experience of the course
of nature, which is but very limited. Before we can pronounce with
certainty what proceedings are contrary to that course, we must know
with certainty what is the actual and regular order of that course.
Hence, psychological and spiritual phenomena are in reality no more
out of the course of nature than are the ordinary operations of
material beings which we constantly witness. They are simply out of
and beyond the range of our own limited experience of nature, and so
on this account we somewhat presumptuously pronounce them to be out
of the course of nature itself.
If we are to regulate our belief as regards ordinary events by what
appears to us the balance of probability, we shall be often mistaken
in our judgment. In fact, in order to determine with any degree of
certainty the probable issue of events in any given case, we ought to
possess a full and complete knowledge of all the various operations that
together contribute to determine such issue; but of which we are in
the great majority of such instances in a state of extreme, if not com¬
plete ignorance. This is peculiarly the case with regard to phenomena
of a psychological, supernatural, or spiritual character.
That truth is stranger than fiction, is a maxim established by wide
experience. And yet if we are to be guided by what seems to us to be
probability, we must often disregard truth, and follow error in order to
be on the side of such apparent probability. In many cases of murder,
where the criminal has been convicted on conclusive evidence, the
actual weight of seeming probabilities appears to be on the side of the
culprit. He has committed an atrocious crime, without any apparent
motive, by which he could gain nothing, and for which the decided
chances were that he would forfeit his life ; looking at the obvious pro¬
babilities of the case, is it not more likely that the witnesses against
him were mistaken or untruthful, than that a man should commit
an act so wholly against his interest, and without any adequate induce¬
ment.
The fallacy of the test of probability as a conclusive argument in
cases which are beyond the ordinary course of events, and which de¬
manded a special application of the reason to their investigation,
which is precisely the case with psychological, spiritual, and so-called
supernatural phenomena, has been well shown by Archbishop Whately
in his historic doubts respecting Napoleon Bonaparte, in which he
points out from the career of this extraordinary man that if we are to
be guided by mere probabilities, our belief will be that he never existed
May 12, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
at all, and that the whole story of his life is a fiction invented by the
newspapers. Thus, what could be more improbable than the story of
his rise from obscurity to the highest eminence 1 So, though descriptions
of his battles agree, different persons give totally different accounts of
his character. The relation of his fall seems as improbable as that of
his rise ; and more improbable still is the account of his return from
Elba, and reassumption of power. The archbishop adds in a post¬
script that inquiries having been set on foot to ascertain whether there
really is such a person as this Napoleon Bonaparte, we are told that he
is gone to an out-of-the-way island in the Atlantic ; and when he is
followed there, it is said that he is dead, and a stone is pointed out
under which it is asserted that his body has been buried. Now, I
will venture to assert that few cases of psychological phenomena, nay,
I will go further, and say that some of the most astonishing assertions
of apparitions, and of spiritual manifestations, are not half so ap¬
parently improbable as the story of Napoleon the First. Yet nobody
doubts of his real existence, so utterly fallacious is the balance of
seeming probability, taken by itself, as a test of the truth of any
matter requiring careful and comprehensive inquiry.
Those who contend that each case of the kind alluded to should be
determined by the apparent weight of two opposing probabilities, tell
you that one should be set against the other, and the issue be decided
according as the balance prevails. Consequently they will maintain
that in every case of supposed supernatural phenomena it is safer to
conclude that the witnesses were mistaken, than that the phenomena
in question were actually real. But, as Archbishop Whately remarks,
how few persons can give a satisfactory reason for their conviction in
cases where it appears to be most sure and well grounded. The fact
is that they mistake, or rather misunderstand, the grounds of their
own conviction.
Indeed, as the Archbishop remarks, all the evidence that we have
as to the existence of Napoleon Bonaparte rests on mere newspaper
reports, while the fabrications of foreign newspapers are notorious.
Their statements, too, were obtained from mere hearsay, or copied
from other journals. They had an interest, too, in inventing these
marvellous stories, in order to effect a sale of their journals. And in
this respect they were all leagued together. Yet, with all this, the
discrepancies in their statements are quite irreconcilable. Even those
who assert that they actually saw Napoleon when he was in Torbay,
only know that they saw a man in a cocked hat, who, they were told
by somebody, was the man.
But some persons may very fairly exclaim, If we are not to be
guided by what seems to us to be the balance of probability in cases
where we have to exercise our judgment, how are we to be guided ?
This brings us to the real point in the controversy. We are rightly
guided by probability in all those cases where our knowledge respect¬
ing the causes and events that precede and determine the result, is
complete and accurate. It is in inquiries respecting psychological,
spiritual, and so-called supernatural phenomena, where our knowledge
is peculiarly imperfect in this respect, that the test of probability
uttei'ly fails.
The accuracy of determination in cases of arithmetical operations is
owing entirely to the certainty of our knowledge respecting the num¬
bers to be taken into account. If by any mistake items on either
side are omitted, all surmises as to the probable amount of the sum
told, must prove abortive. In most cases of inquiry into psychological
phenomena, a large number of the items which should have been
taken into the account will be found to have been omitted.
The other main argument against the reality of psychological and
so-called supernatural existences is, that as some of them have been
discovered to be the result of delusion or deceit, so they must all be
concluded to be of this class. Because a bank-note which I have in
my possession turns out on examination to be forged, are all bank¬
notes to be rejected as spurious 1 Because some professional men have
been found to be unworthy of confidence, are all professional men to
be alike distrusted and discarded ? A vast number, I believe, of
asserted psychological and (so-called) supernatural phenomena are
unworthy of credit, and have been proved to be the result of delusion or
imposture. But that does not prove that all phenomena of this de¬
scription are of this class. Each case of this sort ought to be examined
independently, and to stand upon its own merits. I could indeed
adduce some cases of this description, some of them within my own
personal experience, where the appearances were undoubtedly to be
accounted for by ordinary causes, which had nothing of the so-called
supernatural about them.
It is, however, most important, and indeed essential here, to bear
in mind that, although a hundred cases of delusion or imposture will
not suffice to prove that there are no real cases of psychological or
supernatural phenomena, one real case of this kind, fairly and con¬
clusively proved, will serve absolutely to establish the existence of the
order. Indeed, the very fact of imposture being practised proves that
the reality which is imitated is in existence. On the whole, it appears
to me that at certain periods men have been too much inclined to
superstition, and too eager to give credit to any appearance of a
supernatural order; while, on the other hand, it can hardly be denied
that at other periods, and particularly in the present age, they have
gone as much into the opposite extreme, possibly from a reaction
caused by a consciousness of the folly of the former proceeding.
Matter seems now only to be regarded. Spirit, and its operations and
phenomena, are not only disregarded, but their very existence is
denied. And yet there can be no doubt that spirit is as real as, and
far more potent than, matter. In conclusion, I do not hesitate to ex¬
press my conviction that a total disbelief in psychological phenomena
of every kind, is in every respect fully as irrational and unphilosophical
as is the extravagant credulity with regard to these matters which pre¬
vailed in the dark ages, and to the ridicule cast upon them, which is mainly
owing to the disinclination at the present day to test such inquiries by
the strict and severe processes of reason, which alone must be our
^uide.
THE VALUE OP HUMAN TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
Mr. Charles Carleton Massey opened the discussion on Mr. Harris’s
paper, by remarking that the first objection commonly made to psycho¬
logical phenomena was a reproduction of the argument of Hume in his
celebrated essay on Miracles, to the effect that a miracle could not be
proved to be real by human testimony; this argument had been well
dealt with by Mr .Wallace in his book, Miracles and Modern Spiritualism.
The reliance of man upon what is known as the course of nature
depended entirely upon experience, and so did the reliance upon testi¬
mony, but in the first case that experience was uniform, and not so on
the other. Some persons assumed that these psychological phenomena
were so exceptional and rare, that the scale in which the uniformity of
nature was weighed utterly outbalanced apparent deviations from that
course. In every age there had been perpetually recurring testimony
to these existing variations, and there could be no doubt that if popular
discredit were not unnecessarily thrown upon them, more evidence
would be forthcoming than that which the public at present possessed.
Remembering this, strong testimony existed in favour of the reality of
i\ such exceptional occurrences. The Spectator thought the argument of
11 Mr. Wallace the most conclusive that had ever been attempted in reply
[i to Hume. At the same time, inquirers should keep their eyes open to
i the failure of testimony in regard to the phenomena. When weighing
i testimony every portion of it which was of a vicious nature must be
i removed, but their confidence in the rest was legitimate and fair to
i some extent. In many of the cases there was a screw loose, and he
i would say to those who were in the habit of observing such pheno-
i mena—“Do so under conditions which are absolutely unexception-
i able.” This idea should be impressed upon those who were in the
; habit of observing psychological phenomena, but that was not the
i place to speak upon the point he had just urged.
ARE PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA OPPOSED TO THE ORDER OF NATURE?
i The Chairman asked what men of science meant when they said
ji that supernatural phenomena were opposed to the order of nature ?
I In the present day men’s ideas of the order of nature had changed very
i much from what they were a few years ago, when they believed that
); the whole of the material universe had been made in six days. At the
(! present time they had a different kind of knowledge, and knew for
j! certain that the world was not made in the way described, but by
)\ development in an infinitude of time. They knew now that man had
h progressed from a state altogether different to the present, and that in
millions of years to come his ideas of the order of nature
II will have expanded still more. Although men of science had
h had experience of this change from ancient ideas, they still
(| talked about things being “ contrary to the order of nature,” for-
i getting that those things in which they now believed were not
(| accepted as truths a few hundred years ago. What authority had they
(j for saying that no new force could be discovered, remembering that
11 the force of electricity had been found out within the historical
(i period l They might laugh at the idea of psychic or soul force, but
\\ why should they ? Ages ago, if somebody had said that the force of
?j electricity pervaded human beings, and co ild be obtained by rubbing
(! sealing-wax, the idea would have been met with ridicule, especially
! when it was asserted that the new power would cause small pieces of
j; paper to rise against the force of gravitation; the objectors would
(j say that it was a delusion, that what they saw was fancy, or that the
)\ person who exhibited the experiment was tricking them, for it could
?| not be a fact; how could things possibly rise against the force of gravi-
ji tation ? They might be told to “try it,” and they would answer that
: if they saw it they would not believe, because it was contrary to the
?! laws of nature. Since Dr. Carpenter first began to attack psychic
j realities, he had turned round a great deal from his first position, and
i now tried to explain them away upon the “ prepossession ” theory, for-
i getting that prepossession was to be found on both sides. To a
(i certain extent- Dr. Carpenter was right, for every man who bad had
I; experience in a court of justice knew that prepossession influenced
?| the evidence. If they wanted to get anything proved by men of
(! science, it was well known that numbers of them could be put into
> | the witness-box to prove anything whatever. He had recently had a
j i case under his own notice about the construction of the Portsmouth
: Waterworks, in which eminent men of science swore on the one hand
! that the proposed works would be cheap at £20,000, whilst on the
j other side they swore that they would be dear at £14,030 ; they did
: so honestly, but they were prepossessed ; they looked at their own
n side of the question only, and they entered the witness-box to sup-
ji port a theory rather than to discover what was true. Evidence was
I necessarily coloured iu this way in the case of every inquiry. Wit-
i \ nesses should never care what the issue is, but want to state and to
U know only the very truth. (Applause.) Dr. Carpenter forgot that
11 his argument applied equally to himself and to those who broached
?j the subject of psychological phenomena with strong prepossessions
(i against them. He, and others like him, did not sit down to discover
i: what was true, but to prove if possible that the thing to which they
objected was false, and that prepossession in their minds coloured
everything they saw and heard. Anything at all the other way was
ignored, and they stood before the public as prejudiced witnesses.
(Applause.) Nevertheless, the questions they had raised deserved
consideration.
SEANCES UNDER TEST CONDITIONS—THE INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE OF THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Mr. F. K. Munton stated that the question was substantially one
which had been discussed by that society eighteen months ago, and
he regretted that from unavoidable circumstances Mr. Harris’s paper
had been somewhat curtailed, consequently they had lost much which
THE SPIRITUALIST.
226
May 12, 1876.
they would have liked to have heard that night. He could not agree
with Mr. Harris in his argument that because there were cases of im¬
posture, there must therefore somewhere or other be a reality ; but he
thought that if one single case of the reality of a psychological pheno¬
menon had been proved, it was as good as if they had proved a thou¬
sand. Still, if they tried to prove something entirely contrary to
their previous experience, it was their duty to prove it to the hilt.
(Applause.) He was in the Court of Queen’s Bench recently, when
the counsel on one side said—“ My Lord, I will take for granted such
and such things,” and the reply was—“ 1 never take anything for
granted,” and that is the best plan on all occasions. He (Mr. Munton)
did not say the phenomena did not occur, for it was within his own
experience that they did occur, but there was often looseness in the
evidence on the part of those who witnessed them, and not unfre-
quently there was a link wanting in the evidence. He thought that
there was a certain amount of reason on the part of many learned
professors for the course they had taken in keeping aloof from the
subject; although they had not treated the question altogether fairly,
they still had some ground for their position ; so many cases had been
established to be imposture, that they had the right to demand extra
proof of the instances wherein the phenomena were said to be true.
The Psychological Society had appointed an investigating committee
of about a dozen persons of all shades of opinion ; some of them had
witnessed the phenomena before, and were full believers therein ; others
of them admitted the facts but accounted for them by other than the
popular theory; and the rest who had been appointed on the com¬
mittee had not only never seen the facts, but stoutly asserted that they
never should or could see them. With all these varieties of opinion
present, he thought that the committee was fairly constituted.
Whether they could produce a report which would be satisfactory to
the society on the one hand, and to the public on the other, was
another question. The more he himself saw of the phenomena, the
more convinced he was of the prevalence of imposture. The testimony
of ordinary witnesses was not very trustworthy; he had seen how
very easily his own friends deceived themselves. He did not wish to
cast the slightest doubt on the fact of the existence of the phenomena
in question, for he believed in them ; but as an active supporter of the
Psychological Society he believed that there was much deception to
clear away, and that the members of the committee must be thoroughly
on the alert to guard against self-deception. He had discovered during
the last eighteen months that there was a vast difference in his own
feelings when sitting in the dark instead of in the light; he did not
say that no facts whatever could be proved if they took place in dark¬
ness, but he had observed that after sitting in the dark fora long time,
people were not so well able to observe things, in consequence of a
change which gradually took place in themselves. Prom what he had
seen, he thought that the time was coming when the alleged pheno¬
mena would be seen in the light, and that was a point that the
observers were all aiming at; they were very anxious to see things in
such a way that they should be altogether unmistakable. The pheno¬
mena were contrary to previous experience, so they were entitled to
say that they required more evidence in relation to them than to any
others. The society would take measures which would absolutely
prevent the possibility of imposture.
THE CONDITIONS INFLUENCING SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Mr. Bergheim said that there was a difficulty in getting a repetition
of the phenomena. Faraday once told him of the difficulty he had in
repeating electrical expiriments before a large audience, although the
experiments had gone off well in the laboratory; and if the same argu¬
ment had been brought against Faraday on this account that had been
brought against spiritual phenomena, the audience would have said
to him, “ You are a humbug ! It must have been phosphorus loose
on the outside of a bottle, and you fancied it was a spark ! ” When¬
ever Faraday failed, he tried to find out the cause of his want of
success. Suppose that long ago, when very little was known about
electricity, a man told his friend that by rubbing a piece of amber he
could attract a straw from the table, that friend might try it by rub¬
bing the amber upon a damp dress in a damp room, and the experi¬
ment would fail. It was better to try to discover the cause of the
failure than to rashly assert that such things had never taken place.
He (Mr. Bergbeim) had been present at many investigations of the
phenomena, and when they were produced freely everybody was
pleased, but when they did not take place they pulled long faces, and
went away disgusted at the waste of time. They had better have sat
down to find out what was the difference of conditions between the
seance that failed and the one that went off well, even if they found
that difference to consist merely in the number of nails they had in
their boots. Scientific men wanted to know how to get the phenomena
with tolerable certainty, consequently they must be told the right con¬
ditions, or they would fail, just as it was of no use to search for mush¬
rooms in a desert. The committee should first of all try to discover
what was the peculiarity of the people called mediums, then what
conditions they should avoid when they wanted to obtain successful
results. If the committee were successful one evening they ought 'to
know how to be able to be successful the next.
JUGGLERS AMONG MEDIUMS AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
The Bev. W. Stainton-M!oses, M.A., remarked that if Professor
Faraday had ever proposed to investigate Spiritualism, with all its
difficulties, he would have had a rare treat. (Laughter.) Difficulties
were put in the way of inquirers by persons who objected to any |
investigation at all. Why should they object to investigation?
(Hear, hear.) If psychology were one vast disease, what was the I
objection to its investigation l Electricity might be investigated, and
why not psychology ? The Psychological Society intended to deal only
with facts; objections to investigation were mainly brought up by men |
of science, and the said objectors took it for granted that those who '■
ij wished fo inquire into the phenomena were either knaves or fools,
'I incapable of putting two and two together, or of being able to trace
i! out cause and effect; all this jumping to conclusions was to be found
I on the other side, and not on the side of investigators. Dr. Carpenter’s
I last book was full of “prepossession” from one end to the other. It
would be all very well if he kept upon his own ground, but if a man
wrote to prove that a thing could not possibly take place, he must of
necessity write it from prepossession, and nothing else. (Hear,
hear.) How could he know without investigating ? (Hear, hear.)
Those only would arrive at valuable results who entered into the
investigation desirous of obtaining truth, whatever the truth might be,
and wherever it might land them, and a man did not do that who
started with a theory; for instance, the man who started on the inves¬
tigation to prove that spirits were acting at the other end of the line,
as well as the man who started with the intention of proving that there
were no spirits there, was acting under the influence of prepossession ;
!' the mean between the two was the position of the unbiassed mind.
When the phenomena were so well understood that anybody could say
to a scientific man that he would produce them in any room, under any
reasonable conditions which the disbeliever chose to impose, Spiritualism
would be in a much better state than at present; still, the conditions
prescribed by disbelievers must be reasonable, just as a slight altera¬
tion in conditions would prevent the evolution of electricity altogether.
He had not much confidence in investigating committees. The Harvard
University committee had been afraid to state that which it knew, and
the St. Petersburg committee—supposing M. Aksakof’s version to be
the true one, as it might be assumed to be—had displayed conduct
which was a wholesale disgrace to science. (Applause.) There had
been no end of exposures of fraudulent mediums, it was true, but there
had been exposures of men of science also. (Hear, hear.) All the
fair dealing on these subjects was not to be found in one bag. He
hoped to see the time when committees would not be appointed to
prove that two and two make four, but to elucidate the conditions
iinder which the phenomena occur. If half the time spent in trying
to convince people who did not want to be convinced were spent in
elucidating the laws governing the phenomena, and in developing the
phenomena, so that a tumbler could be raised from the table and held
some time in the air whenever it was desired to present such a fact,
then there would be a much greater power in the movement of con¬
verting disbelievers.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
Mr. Coffin said that scientific men had been well abused, and that
there was a misunderstanding of terms used by psychologists and
materialists. The simile of the president, that the force of electricity
when not generally known would have involved those who knew about
it in abuse, was a somewhat unfair one, and not to the point, for the
alleged psychological phenomena were not brought in the same way
under the notice of men of science. If, for instance, he disbelieved in
magnetism, those who knew about it would show him on the spot that
a piece of iron rose to a magnet, and he would be obliged to admit it;
if they then told him that this was done by spirits, he should be
justified in thinking the explanation unsatisfactory. A man was not
j ustified in saying that known laws did not explain any phenomena,
until he could produce some law which did explain them. Certain
laws turned up so frequently that they had been formulated; they
were intersected at certain points -by other laws which were not yet
recognised; when those laws were eliminated which were known,
others of which they were at present ignorant would be discovered,
and these others seemed for the time being to reverse the order of
nature. He supposed that half the recent discoveries of value had
arisen from investigating anomalous actions. Prepossession and ex¬
pectant attention had been spoken of, but scientific men were not free
from such failings. He believed that Tyndall had said of Faraday,
that when Sir Humphrey Davy first brought the new metal potassium
under his observation, and recommended the performance with it of a
certain experiment, Faraday said to him—“ What am I to look for ?”
Mr. George Harris, in reply to the various speakers, said that in his
paper he had intended only to grapple with two main arguments,
namely, the improbability of the reality of the phenomena, and the
circumstance that many of the cases turned out upon investigation to
be failures. BSdicule had been thrown at the facts, but little argu¬
ment. Mr. John Stuart Mill had said that all new things were at
first assailed by scorn, next by ridicule, and lastly by sound argument.
Psychological phenomena were now in the second stage, and he hoped
that before long they would be found in the third. It was remarkable
that with regard to supernatural phenomena, there bad been no couptry
in any age of the world, either savage or civilised, that had not
believed in them, and that circumstance ought to have great
weight. (Hear, hear.) Witnesses often deceived themselves. Once
he was present when an old lady made a long statement,
and afterwards in the course of cross-examination she left only one-
fifth of her first statement uncontradicted; the next day she asked
the court to allow her to withdraw the other fifths (Laughter.) She
had not intended to deceive them, but was led away by her own feel¬
ings. How scientific men contradicted each other was well exemplified
in cases of insanity, for one set of medical men were ready to prove
that all men were sane, whilst another set were ready to prove that
all were more or less mad. Science had done much to clear away
superstition, but psychological phenomena stood upon a firmer footing
than they ever did before. This, again, tended to show their reality.
He was glad that such an animated debate had followed the reading
of his paper, and considered it to be an earnest of the hearty way iu
which the investigating committee would enter upon its labours.
The Chairman remarked that physicists, in imposing their own con¬
ditions upon psychological phenomena, forgot that they were not deal¬
ing with the inanimate objects they were in the habit of handling, but
May 12, 1876,
227
THE SPIBITUALIST.
with intelligent beings, even supposing that the facts had nothing more
than a mental root. Therefore they could do little but watch and
wait; they were not handling inanimate matter, but dealing with
some intelligence possessing passions and emotions. If they required
to apply to intelligent beings that which they would apply to unin¬
telligent matter, they were not acting in a manner founded either upon
reason or justice. (Applause.)
The Secretary announced that at the next meeting Mr. Tagore would
read a second paper on “ The Psychology of the Hindoos.”
At the next meeting also Mr. Harris will offer some remarks on
the account given by Lord Clarendon of the apparition of Sir George
Villiers.
<Eom8ponnence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to time of this journal and its readers.}
A SEANCE WITH MB. AKTHUR COLMAN.
Sib,—You may perhaps consider the following account of an im¬
promptu seance, held at my house last Tuesday evening, of sufficient
interest to insert in your journal.
I will commence hy briefly stating that Mr. Arthur Colman and Mr.
Potts called to spend a few hours with me, without, however, any in¬
tention or expectation of sitting for manifestations.
Immediately on Mr. Colman’s entrance, the raps in all parts of the
room became so numerous that it was suggested we should sit at the
table to ascertain if our spirit friends wished to communicate with us.
The room was accordingly slightly darkened, and we took our seats;
the table then became apparently alive, and tilted and moved about in a
most eccentric manner. It was quite evident, however, on close
scrutiny, that Mr. Colman exerted no physical force to produce the ex¬
traordinary movements we witnessed.
It will be well for me here to state that the size of the room in which
we were sitting is 13 ft. 9 in. by 11 ft. 4 in., and the only access to it by
one door. In a corner of the room I have had a sort of frame-work
erected, projecting about two feet from the wall, and about six feet in
height, to admit of curtains being suspended from it, so as to enclose it
and form a cabinet.
I was desired to hang curtains over the frame, and Mr. Cdlman was
directed to take his seat within. The room was then completely
darkened, the door locked, and the table pushed up to the curtains. I
and Mr. Potts seated ourselves at the table facing the cabinet. After
waiting about five minutes, we heard deep groans and sighs proceeding
from the corner of the cabinet where the medium was seated, and
gradually a luminous appearance became faintly visible, emanating from
the centre of the cabinet. This luminosity slowly advanced, increasing
in intensity, and revealing as it approached the head and bust of a man,
apparently about forty years of age, having a magnificent grey beard,
and holding in Ms hand a substance emitting a pale greenish light, with
which he illuminated his features.
The figure, which, by-the-by, appeared to be only material as far
as the waist, stated in a clear, distinct voice—entirely unlike the voice
of the medium—that his name was William Scott, and that he had been
a doctor in earth-life. He allowed us to stroke and examine his beard,
he holding the lamp behind it so as to render it distinctly visible ; he
also permitted us to shake hands with him, his hands feeling perfectly
warm and lifelike, in fact, as natural in every respect as our own. He
bade us listen while he breathed heavily, as a man would after severe
physical exertion, and also clashed his teeth together, the sound being
very distinctly heard as he stood close to us. He floated up to the ceil¬
ing and looked down upon us, the back of Ms head apparently resting
against the ceiling. At times his lamp flashed forth so brilliantly that
the contents of the room, including his own form, draped in a beautiful
white material, similar to cambric, were clearly visible.
Furthermore, to convince us beyond a doubt that the medium and
the spirit were two distinct individuals, I was desired to approach the
cabinet, when the spirit, by the light of his lamp, showed me the recum¬
bent form of the entranced medium.
We were then requested to light a candle, when the spirits would en¬
deavour to manifest in the light.
In a few minutes a female face peeped through the curtains, and ad¬
dressed me by my Christian name. The voice I immediately recognised
as that Of my deceased wife. She asked me if I recognised her. I re¬
plied—“ I do partially, but should have less difficulty if you would
remove your veil.” This she instantly did, and, to my unspeakable
joy, I saw and recognised her well-remembered features. Involuntarily
I exclaimed, “ Yes! that is you beyond all doubt.”
I had her hand in mine for some minutes, and recognised that also in
an equally unmistakable manner.
She expressed her joy and delight at this blessed recognition, and that
she had been enabled to give me such convincing proof of her continued
existence and undying affection.
The spirits then informed us that they would endeavour to speak to
us in the direct voice, and in the light, while the medium was visible.
Mr. Colman thereupon appeared in front of the curtains, and, while deep
moans came from him, a brief conversation was carried on by us with
the spirit Johnny Grey, the spirit speaking in short ejaculatory and
broken words, obviously with great difficulty, but none the less with
perfect distinctness.
We were especially requested to watch critically the medium’s face
while the voice was speaking, and we could detect no movement of a
muscle except that produced by the continuous and uninterrupted
heavings of the chest, occasioned by his moans. In fact, that a voice
was speaking to us, and that it did not proceed from the lips of Mr.
Colman, was quite manifest.
I must not forget to mention that afterwards, during supper, the table
was moved and tilted while we were busily engaged plying our knives
and forks, and loud knocks were heard and felt on the sofa on which
Mr. Potts was sitting.
Before bidding us good night our invisible friends informed us that
however wonderful we might consider the manifestations with which
they had astonished us that evening, they were as nothing compared
with what they would give if we continued to furnish them with
similar conditions.
We again sat yesterday evening, when William Scott showed him¬
self more distinctly than on Tuesday, in fact, in full lamp light, as
high as it could be turned up without the lamp smoking. We also un¬
mistakably heard the voices of Johnny Grey and the medium in con¬
versation, especially when the spirit woke the medium up at the close
of the sitting.
In conclusion, I may mention the following incident as being, to say
the least, a remarkable coincidence.
Miss Eager, who, by the way, is entirely unknown to Mr. Colman,
they never having spoken to each other, was spending an hour with
me on Sunday evening. She was entranced and became clairvoyant.
While in this condition she said that she saw my wife in the cabinet
with two male spirits, apparently engaged in consultation. One of
the spirits she described as having a splendid beard reaching nearly
to his waist.
In the course of our sSance yesterday evening I asked the spirit
William Scott, described in the foregoing, if he had been to see me on
Tuesday evening. He replied in the affirmative, and corroborated Miss
Eager’s statements in every respect. Joseph Cottereix.
10, Addison-place, Melbourne-square, Brixton, 7th May, 1876.
I have much pleasure in adding my testimony to the above.
Hewlett Potts,
MATERIALISATION OP A PULL FIGURE.
Sir,—A short time since, in describing to you some of the physical
phenomena obtained at Mrs. Bullock’s Hall, 19, Church-street, Islington,
through the mediumship of Mr. E. Bullock, junr., I stated that we were
expecting the materialisation of the whole figure, and that when we had
obtained this desirable species of manifestation, I would inform you of
the fact.
I have much pleasure in stating that at our last Tuesday even¬
ing’s stance our hopes were most fully and unmistakably realised,
under the following circumstances:—
Our circle comprised about thirty persons, and although many were
strangers, great harmony prevailed.
The first part of the seance was in the dark, and of about the
average quality and quantity of manifestations generally obtained at
this hall, such as bells ringing to the time of our singing, guitar
played by invisible hands whilst floating over our heads, musical
box weighing 19 lbs. floated, and placed on the floor outside the circle,
flowers and sweets distributed, hands materialised and used to touch
the sitters, my own mother’s and father’s being amongst them; con¬
cluding by taking the medium’s chair from him and placing it on the
table, then floating the medium round the circle, and eventually landing
him on the table, in his chair. All hands were joined during this
sitting, and whilst the medium floated I held him by one hand and
another gentleman by the other.
We now received instructions to “ light up, and place the medium in
the cabinet.” The spirit of Daniel Watts, intimating his intention of
trying to materialise himself, a stranger bound the medium to his
chair, and examined the cabinet; we then place the guitar, tube, &c.,
inside, and put down the curtain. The guitar was almost instantly seen
over the top of the cabinet, knocking the wall; then the musical box,
which had been kept on the platform outside the cabinet appeared at
the aperture, and also at the top of the cabinet, which was open at top.
Several hands of various sizes and complexions, and the head and
face of Darnel Watts, now appeared at the aperture in succession.
Daniel, clothed in a long white robe, then came out at one side of the
curtain, and called Mrs. Swindin—a lady, whose ministrations to her
daughter, lately deceased, had prevented her attendance for nine
months—and cordially shook hands with her, stating that he was glad
to see her. He then retired, and coming out at the other side, ad¬
vanced to the centre of the platform, and said, in a clear, natural voice,
“ Mr. Bullock, will you give me a pair of scissors ?- ” A pair of shears
was then brought from upstairs, which Mr. Bullock handed to the
spirit, who took them, and, making a fold in his garment, proceeded to
cut out a piece from it, measuring about nine inches by four. He then
held the robe out, to show us that the piece had been rematerialised,
and having said, “ Mr. Starnes, did you see me?” and received my
affirmative reply, he retired, saying, very impressively, “ God bless
you all! ”
Small portions of the piece cut out were then given to all who
applied for them, and the remainder retained by Mr. Bullock at the
hall, who will be happy to show it to any one making personal applica¬
tion to him to inspect it.
The fabric of the garment is similar to that sold by linendrapers as
Victoria lawn, and having had about twenty years’ experience in that
trade, it is with difficulty I can bring my mind to realise the fact that
it was not manufactured at or near Manchester, it being in appearance
made of cotton, coarsely woven, and dressed in the usual way in which
most common, thin cotton textures are. And yet at the same time I am
as confident that the piece in question was actually cut off by the
hand of the embodied spirit, Daniel Watts, as I am of my own
existence. Several of my friends to whom I have shown a specimen
of the above, consider me now fully qualified for Colney Hatch,
one very intelligent friend, advising me to be careful how I circulated
such tales as this, stating that if I told it to a policeman he would have
me locked up and examined by the divisional surgeon, and then it
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 12, 1876.
would be “ a case f with me. Of course I can afford to laugh at all
such comments as these, knowing that when I go to an asylum for
believing in spiritual manifestations similar to those which I have so
imperfectly described, I shall go in company with some of the loftiest
minds and greatest men of science of the present day, who have had
the courage to look a new truth in the face, to critically and patiently
examine it, and having discovered it to be not a myth, a delusion, or
the product of an over-heated imagination, but an emanation from the
great central sun of truth itself, have also had the courage fearlessly to
assert their convictions, in spite of the sneers of materialism and the
anathemas of superstition.
Daniel Watts is no stranger to us at Islington ; this is the third time
I have seen him, although I never saw him come out on the platform
before. He has been in the habit of speaking to us, and producing
spirit lights for about ten or twelve months. George Starnes.
22, Sparskolt-road, Crouch-kill, N.
MR. COATES’ CASE.
Sir,—While admitting that in the frenzy of a moment, in an evil
hour, a sad and painful occurrence took place, yet I ask, for the sake of
the past, from all who have known me, that they suspend judgment in
my case until the issue of the indictment at the forthcoming sessions.
To all who know my painful position it is unnecessary to say anything,
and to those who do not it is equally futile to try to explain. But to all
I would say, as well as to yourself (you having published the imperfect
account of the affair from the Liverpool Courier), “ Judge not according
to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.”—John vii. 24. In
conclusion, if any man knows aught against me, he will find ample
opportunity to state it at the trial. I remain in Liverpool to abide the
result.—Yours in sorrow, Jas. Coates.
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool, May 7, 1876.
P.S.—The magistrate who presided has admitted me to bail in the
small sum of fifty pounds, which was promptly furnished by a compara¬
tive stranger.—J. C.
“THROWN OFF” DUPLICATIONS.
Sir,—The subjects considered in Mr. Harrison’s article in last
number, touch so closely on the old philosophy of Democritus and
Epicurus, that I may be excused for suggesting the adoption of a nomen¬
clature which has the advantage of age, and which may simplify some
questions.
The theory of the Epicurean philosophy was essentially that of De¬
mocritus. The atoms of which the universe is formed are constantly
throwing off some of their parts, dxoppoai,* and these in contact with the
senses, produce sensation, <uoQr)<ng. But Epicurus, as Mr. G. H. Lewes
has well pointed out, did not maintain that these diroppoai were images
of the atoms; he believed them to have a certain resemblance to their
atoms, but was unable to point out where, and in how far this resem¬
blance exists. Every sensation {e.g. that which an observer outside
the cabinet feels of the grasp of a “ spirit hand ”) must be true as a sen¬
sation; and as such it can neither be proved nor contradicted; it
is akoyog. The faculty of recollecting the various sensations, or of con¬
ception, TrpoXtif/ig, leads to the formation of general ideas, and it is in
these general ideas that error may reside; e.q. a sensation may be per¬
fectly true, and represent the occurrence of an objective entity, but the
general idea that such sensation is referable to any particular cause may
be false.
Till such true cause of the phenomena which are now under investi¬
gation is demonstrated to all persons, will you allow me to suggest a
return to the old modes of thought, as exemplified by the coinage of the
word aporeusis, as applied to a form which exists apart and at a distance
from the body of the ‘•medium,” and which may or may not duplicate
or resemble a part or parts of his own structure. If any of your readers
could suggest a shorter or more elegant word I should be obliged.
C. Carter Blake.
THE OBTAINING OF RELIABLE COMMUNICATIONS FROM DEPARTED FRIENDS.
Sir,—Apart from the usual motives of affection or curiosity, or of
scientific interest in the momentous question which Spiritualism has now
made the leading order'of the day, to the intellect and conscience of
civilised mankind—apart, I say, from these motives, many situations
exist in which it would be of very great importance to families, and to
individuals, to be able to get reliable communications from deceased re¬
latives or friends. There is many a secret buried in a grave, many a
wrong that might be remedied, many a sorrow consoled, many a tor¬
menting doubt resolved, could but certain lips, now closed in death, re¬
open, with no uncertain sound, to the appeal of the living.
I can point out means to that end which, when prosecuted with a
righteous and religious purpose, such as should command the desire of the
seeker to the favour of good spirits, would secure its accomplishment, if
not with absolute certainty, with at least very, very strong probability.
There is a medium in Paris, a lady of high respectability (whose
name I cannot publish, but who is already known as “ Mme. R.” to such
of your readers as have followed my letters about Publius Syrus), who
seems never to fail in the exercise of her wonderful faculty. For the
purpose of doing good, either the Count de Bullet or myself will readily
introduce to her any person who may bring us a recommendation from
the editor of any Spiritualist journal, or from any Spiritualist society,
in England or on the Continent, and we can promise that she will at
least do her best for the gratification of their legitimate wishes.
* An analogous verb, ’A-Troppiimo, is used “ to throw aside, or down, or
cast down, out, or down,” in Acts xxvii. 43, so it cannot be said to be an
out-of-the-way word.
What will then take place will be as follows :—She will give them
(on proper introduction) a sitting, one or more. If the spirit from whom
they seek information should be present, attracted by affection or by
sympathy with them, the name will be pretty surely announced to them
by the table tilting to the letters of the alphabet. They can then inter¬
rogate the spirit in their own language (the lady knowing no other than
French. If the desired spirit should not be present, some other spirit
friend (to be identified by his name) is sure to be there, who would
then be pretty sure to bring them, or to cause to be brought to them, the
desired one.
To multiply probability as to the reliableness of the result, I would
recommend that before coming they should consult the best medium or
mediums within their reach at home, even though their confidence in
them might be uncertain, and if the results obtained should coincide or
correspond, they may feel reasonably assured of its correctness.
I am specially prompted to make this suggestion, for the benefit of
those to whom it may be useful, by the following incident which occurred
a few days ago. An American friend of mine had a particular and very
proper reason for desiring to obtain a certain piece of information from
no less a person than the late Mr. Greeley, the world-wide-known editor
of the Neio York Tribune, and the opposition candidate against General
Grant at the last Presidential election. Greeley alone could give it, and
Greeley living would not have failed to give it. I took him to Mme.
R. In response to his request, a spirit present at once gave his name
as “ Horace Greeley,” and proceeded to give, an answer to the inquiry
put to him, an answer which contained intrinsic evidence of its correct¬
ness. I also had known him long years ago, with personal relations
somewhat peculiar, and he also answered what I said to him in a was
entirely corresponding to what might have been expected. It way
impossible to doubt, from the intrinsic evidence, that it was really Horace
Greeley, and no mistake. The whole passed in English, of which
language the lady does not know a word.
I also took yesterday to Mme. R. another friend, the Hungarian
Count, to whom two spirit friends gave their names correctly, with
replies opposite, and to his satisfaction correct. One of them was a
cousin of his, and on the name being given, he took out from his pocket
his cigar-case, and showed me the name inscribed in the inside. In
both these cases the friends I introduced were not known even by name
to the lady.
In similar manner I have myself received appropriate responses at
different times from three relatives, giving maiden or middle names, as
well as Christian and surnames. One of them answered correctly a
written letter I had sent to her (see my former letter on ‘‘A new Spiritual
Post-office,” in your paper some weeks ago), in which were six dis¬
tinct points of inquiry, one of which involved the giving me (correctly)
the names of three other brothers and a sister long deceased. In regard
to my Latin communications from Publius Syrus, I may say that they
now number six (at my last date to The Spiritualist they were five), in
the course of which there have been given the names of four of his
contemporaries, viz., Julius Kcesar, Laberius, Dolabella, Cassius.
I send you this letter for the benefit of those whom it may interest,
believing that there may be persons among your readers who would
gladly take the trouble of the journey to Paris for the object of which
it suggests to them the opportunity. They will judge for themselves by
the evidences above submitted of the remarkable powers of Mme. R.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, April 30th.
AFFECTION IN SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Sir,—Not enough stress can be laid on Mr. Harrison’s remark in a
recent Spiritualist that the indispensable element of “affection” is
ignored on the part of scientific men in testing spiritual phenomena.
To compare a medium with a musical box, to be wound up in any place,
is a sad mistake. Affection, along with other dispositions of the mind,
forms an essential ingredient—becomes in a certain sense more mate¬
rialistic—in the spirit circle. If this affection, which is in general in
close affinity with confidence in a well-tested, reliable medium, could be
established at once in a new circle, without a trained medium, sur¬
prising phenomena may occur just the same. A powerful medium
would thus be the instantaneous result of favourable surroundings, other¬
wise elicited by gradual development. C. Reimers.
THE INFLUENCE OF ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS ON MEDIUMS.
Sir,—A gentleman, who is at once a physiologist, a metaphysician,
and an earnest inquirer into the facts of Spiritualism, has requested
me to ask your readers whether any observations have ever been made
on the influence exercised by the north-east wind on the functions of
mediumship; and what are the results, if any, of such observations ?
_ E. K.
Miss Fowler’s Physical Manifestations.—The success of Miss
Fowler’s experiment of obtaining physical manifestations in the light
is becoming greater with each trial. Last Thursday evening Miss
Fowler was secured by a comparatively new and searchingly accurate
investigator, who at the close of that part of the seance devoted to these
particular physical manifestations, declared himself completely satisfied
as to their genuineness, as well as to the thoroughness of the test.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several interesting communications reached us on Wednesday which might
have been forwarded earlier in the week, instead of at the last moment
before going to press. Their publication is consequently delayed for
a week. Letters which- reach the office on Mondays and Tuesdays
usually take precedence, as regards time of publication, of those which
arrive later.
May 12, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
Loudon, VV.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay deftning the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ' by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
J,aw. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or. the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlyjpublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mounlford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Superaatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniclh that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Go.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
TIIE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6S.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tnke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF1 SPIRIT UALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and {Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie See?'." s d-
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .70
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ ... 76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .70
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .70
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .30
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .. . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .30
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . G 0
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .70
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims ... 26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . ..30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . <76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom-
' - - ~ - j e
> 0
mended by Thb Spimtualist Newspaper _
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .5
History of American Socialisms.(Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . < 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiskc, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Col]yer,M.D. . . . .2
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America-
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ....... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S
Special edition for Schools . , , . 1
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Pi'ice One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas P.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE ^OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gil.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R, T.
Hallock. 2s.
V
T HE 'S FIRIT UAL I ST.
May 12, 1876.
BOOKS- ON. SPJRITUALISM. .PSYCHOLOGY, I
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
^ BldLOGY,
Itepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of Harrison, Bpritoialist1
paper Branch Office, 38,-Great Bussell-street,' Bloomsbury A
London, W.O. . / ...... 'i-
[For purposes of mutuaL convenience the abovQ offi.ce;has,heen|
rented on the premisestof ^he.National Association;of{Spfi'it-a
ualists, but the Association and 7V(.t .S/w--(.'j;o//s/.NcA'spapi?r‘:anil 5
publishing business/are'“nbt hv any'\vlfy?fconnccted’nvith}eachj
other.] A ' . * ' **'4
A; ' Price 7s. Gd.,' cloth. : 'f 4/'
POEMS<FROM- THE HNNER
.LIZZXEt.DQTEN*- TenlhAdit'ion.JtThisTgplumejPpens^
with the wonderful; expgjien.C.esTof f tlTeVaut&Prto^icuiSjp_iecu-^
liarly gifted*as a -trance' medium';andt;ptiblic^speaker.’-*Her|
platform labours have for a loite timei;beeii''uuce^ng, andthej
deep rbligiotfsiahcf spjjrtttSaiHohe of - her'dipcSui!fes|*'haye?ex-7
tended^ heripfljffince^farjpcsg^tke limit of her voice|Ahr6ugh
the 'instrurngh®ity ofCtbe'; press.%This'i,v&lume' contains the
gems of the-iinspirational, utterances,. given chiefly before
public- audieuceS? under fdirect spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of.Edgar A. Poe. They have
the.rhythmiFfieauty,'grandeur, tahd’imagery of his produc¬
tions 'invfearth-lifel • Th^hBtograpkhiai'Introduction gives a
succinct account of the me.ans.by^hich these poems are given
tp the world. The peculiarUnilpehce which each spirit exer-
cisedTover the mediumfisTstated,': and the unmistakable cer-
tainty-and^significance,of athisfehigher phase of spiritual com-
muniShnraSuraSPlSdMtoie book'is a valuable addition to the <
eyifencesnn favbfir*oflspirtl intercourse and of its ennobling,
tendencies.—I!oslbu>U::S.:'C’oCey anu hint. London jMsa
wa/i£^Office.-
R’‘eJl» LIFE IN SPIRIT- LANDBeing
'’SmfeExperiences, Scenes, Incidents,-and'Conditions
illustraiiye of Spirit-Life and the princjple^ofjthe- Spiritual
Philosophy^. Of practical value to any^who are1aii2qpus'to'
study the meories of Spiritua^istsiandMediujpigiffir the purpose
of deducihg# at’consistentiSystemof r failh*. concerning, the
future. its'reLw&rd^,ahd*'punishxnehtsJjr&cFas'tit''estabIishesva
basis in jease^for its prcip&itionsSandfaskh ho' blind^ac’hep-*'
tance'bf ltaten^mlSIfliut^Bli.i^nsAhe st-ffSiestr'Snalysjsof tl^m.
Given .iBspiratiphally4thjou^tt^Mrjs^Ms.ria%M. • KingYCioth,-
5s. 6d. . newspl5>er:bfancn office/^;.;'rii-
The trapped medium • or, the two
CLEVEB , SCEPTICS. A pamphlet, by - Christian’
Keimers.—This brochure contains a senes pf illustrations,
setting forth' the exciting adventures of. Professor Molecule,
F B S., X.Y.Z., B.LG.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr, Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. • It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, G$d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
STRANGE YISlTORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Beligion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, te^thngpirits of Irving, Willis,-Thackeray, Byron,
^)i^^!^h&i^fi®S!MMhiriSe?r'iWesley*HuShhQ'Idh’iBhiowaMbfc
and others. These wonderful articles were dictatea through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, fis.
Colby and Bich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
The debatable land between this
WOBLD AND THE NEXT. By Egbert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence, on that subject as the^
apostles .had. More than balf the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will se^m incr,edible at
first sight to niany,*yet which* are',sustained Ijyericlence rfs
strong as that which, daily determines; in our courts’'of‘law,
the life and-death'of-menl-This book* affirms, that the strongest
of all historical ^evidences for modern Spiritualism are.found
in the Gospels; ahdi that the' strongest 0! all proof ,going to
substantiate.the GoppelY&rratives are found in the phenomena
of Spirituahsrrf. ifClotlh 7sn>37'‘ k ’ iyfc# , , f
Vie ^p.intMohsiiANfew.spaper. Branch .Office. *
THEvA^1HR|€ AN.SPIRITUAL: MAGAZINE..
Devoted'’to l3piritualism.%Its,history, phenomena,'and {
teachings ffom'a Chrigtiarfjttajd-point.-—The^E jitorjhas been •'
an Itinerant Meth'bdis t Minister for over 36 years, §3 of which *
have been spent, in’Memflbis,-.Tennessee, and-;ydpinitw'whdre <
the Magazine is published.' 5 It belongs to no sect or*party,‘but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found, >\
On Christian or on heathen ground.” •
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
coyer.' Published monthly, price 10s. per anflum’ Spiritualist
newspaper branch office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Beduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
rand SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser-
vations75alsp„.illustfatiye instances of analogous phenomena
occtirfingt'spontaheousiy, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by - ••• *
- ^ , EDWIN LEE,.M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy,:ofMedicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of,taiis^*Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence. ' ---- A . •
The Milan Society for the: Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded;,th^prize,offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the abbve work’.bn mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the'life^of^Dr. Arnold, of Bugby,4 that he
said:—“I should like"to hear-something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has alwayp, elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life. itself probably4lies^ within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of-nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a’fthinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of theiwonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced imprice to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
'iThe &iSecmd WVolume ; qAJ The f Identity - of^Pnihitive
; Cliri&wMtyimd % Modem Spiritualism ^
I - CEO WELL, SmgWH Y. j
Alhis OctavoWolume; %pAs.bmeIy printed and ^ounipiif clOJth,
I a ..-n■ibjfi i*. b-SiLcOmpietes the work. i*,, .-.tfcAA*
I ' „... , * iL^ONTENTS.*-'*’®
I * L. ii-Lj-Spirit^i^iting.i I : : ki”,; A .‘1 ;
II.^-Leyitatjbn and Conveyance; b^Bpirit-power
; • .I@^-IhSehsibjlity to Fire. - »- >»*•
I Jhi .^ivbYciairyoiance and Somnambulism. ‘
.. iY^-ClarrauaienceT* 
} i". .^ASi.A-.Dreams^bnd Visions., ,
I ," WIL—Trance'and Ecstacy.
i " ^YlII.^Hb^ GfiSst.--* ■ - ***—
| _■-'A* HK.-AHeresjjis and Contentions. *
X.T^-Prayer. '
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
: f " XIL—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World. ■
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church. --
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in Apterica,'.and copiesi
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 'Gd.' at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. V’fcAt.Tr--ir ■'■A -‘A
, MUt j * • First Edition, r SHMH
JMPQNTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
JNFOIIMtION^FOB-INQUIRERS'INTO SP1R1T-
! . *• : ••. HP - UALISM. ^... .
.-A jAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
l^rge amount of information, compiled especially, for inquirers,
will, be sSbrtly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office tat' 38, Great Buss'ell-street, London,' for sale at pubhc
meetings, -.1 •*, ■ g ‘ '
PBICE ONE PENNY.,5 ‘
There has long been a demand‘for "some such publication
as this, the curreht: spiritual new'spapers-'hot.always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom .the.suhjegty)fHpirituaiismi ia a,strange. one.
Mahy>thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept pffl.sald\by Abqdbrs’of^siriritual'litefature, and at
spiritqal n^etjpgs^th.r^ugliput the country^
W From the large circulation uius secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL'FOB ADVEETISEMENTS
To^Meffifims,'Mesmerists,'Authors of Spiritual Books, and
othSr§y The chsngewfofiAadvertisements will he One Shilling
for|thj ;jlrsii, twgnty-five words, jmdJSixpence, for every addi¬
tional twenty-five worrfs, or portionYhereoK .Displayed adver¬
tisements Fixe^Shillingsper.inch. •’
All. adyeflisemenlk should be sent in as^soon, as possible, as
the publication wifi come 'out in'a few'Weeks’.tjme..
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and-l§th, of-every.,month.- Price
,2d., or.6. francs y.Mriy.-Belgium—37. Bue• FldrimohVL^ge.
;®p*»§p<a?f*rAleWSpaper -Branbh Office. ’’ -
Reflexionen AUS der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Becord of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda*
Pesth: Jdeefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically , accurate
description of manifestations f recently ^produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
''observers in London. By. William H.-Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. .PriceIs.; post Jree ls. \A.—Spiritualist Newspaper
BranchOffice.  ,#■* . •  ■ r .
--- , i'~: In'Two Volslf 8v6.}cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
-XJL NATUBE - AND -CONSTITUTION OF MAN. -i By.
.Georgh Harris, LL.D,, F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy-
\ chological Society and of. the Anthropological Institute,“anfi
author of “ The Theory of- the' Arts,-11-11 Civilisation considered
as a Science,” <fcc. This work embraces a comprehensive and
‘complete "survey of theinature and constitution of man
rphysical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mufual* connection and'dependence of each branch. Topics
•‘Connected .with-the spiritual being, and the leading opinions
on thi^ subjMt,.including, the.nature, essence, properties,'and
•mbdehf,opera’tion;.of the-soulYthe alliance between matter
and spirit; reasonrandrinstinct, their affinity and diversity
are here di^cusqed; and-a hew theory is propounded of bur
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,-mode
‘of-adtion,'*discipline,- and Cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities oh certain of the topics here embraced,
'among them, some' distinguished writers .on psychology, phy¬
siology j and natural history, have been in correspondence
.with, *and ;have been consulted by the author, by. several of
whom notes of much interest and value, bn different inaportant
controverted points, have been contributed. \
London: G. Bell <fc Sons, York-st^eetj-Covent-gafden:, 1876.
’ By Royal Letters Patent. 0
“RHINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR .
- BEAUTIFIER,
PBOMQTJLS.THE GEOWTH OF .THE HAIB, AND
IMPABTS.TqYt A HEALTHY BEILLIANOY; 7
IT CLEAN’SES THE' HE AD,‘AND
EESTOEES TO 'GB'EY'.HATB ITS OEIGINAL COLOUB.
It is a Preventive of Cold- in' the- Head, and afords'a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all eiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis..
The above fact renders THE “KEINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilbt of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Betail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London,-S.W.; or of Mr. John BOUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
^< COLEMAN.
- *- j, ; COMMITTEE:
The Countfigs ftf Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charges Isham; Bjirt., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
WillianifHowitt^E&ci’v Borne, Italy.
S. C. HalkkEsq’*F,S.A5f.50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander.Cpl^erT’Esq.,!, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
Charles'JfiaoiibunL Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. WiHi’insgn,-. Esq,t 44,|Jiiin"cQln.’s -inn-fields.
A. A. 'WattsI'Esq7,'119,'Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinhery, Esq., 142, Strand,* Londqn, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Eampre-park,-S.E. -
IC. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snpdl&jidj' Bochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annanda|e,‘UpjpenNprwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Blpbmsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Glqucester-gate, Begent’s-
park. . - • j 11 • .... - ,
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool. *■
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildines, Liverpool. ‘
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.'
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Eegent’s-park,';N^vV.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescenfi-Bochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of W^lgSTfoad, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,Esq, M.D., 8 Great Ormond-.gtfeltj»W70.
W. H. Harrison, Esq, 38, Great Bussell-sfre|0^fC.
J. H.Gledstanes, Esq, Junior United SeryiCqClub*, S.W. ,
W, C. Copperthwaite, Esq, Malton, Yorkshire. :. .; .
CrbmwelUF.'.Varley, Esq, F.B.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. Jr O’Sulliyan, late U.S. Minister to the'^Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet,-' Esq.’; 219,'George-street, Glasgow. - (j
Mrs. Hamilton,’York-placeiTPortman-square.
John Lamont,'’ Esq7,' Finfleldj Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq.? 19, Leamington-road-villas,'Westboume-
park: *-'fe
Andrew Glendinnipg,-Esq.,ji,\Castledino,-rqad,-Anerly, S.E.
W. J. Williams^Esq.'^plS.rence'Cluljjj.Wateflqo-place, S.W.
Subscriptions!wiirbe receiyed'Ind'^duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer,! Alexander Calder^Esq,' 1, Hereford-square,
South .Kefisirigton; or by the^Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq,
Junior Ifnited Service Club, St. James’s, S.W.
HP HE :ALPHA; OR, THE. FJRST PRINCIPLE
I OF-THE H OMAN MIN D; A Bevelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent'and Steel-1 Portrait of the'Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We qan call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. •■’•■“It contains more truth, _ poetry,
philosophy, and logic/than any. work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, Wd one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the,world.”—Cosmopolitan. 4* • i
} Also •just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound/price 3s. Gd. "
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
-I PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
Tbe.gbildhppjLjOfi JqSus;;: Religious Liberty; Eleotipn a*>4
-Grace- Time/Uin; Law the Regenerator; the Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Beligion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d, done up in neat wrappers.
‘ THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each. , ,
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
•progress,-and. religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
-these works, as widely known as possible. They contain the
most impqrt/ipt ?of( all knowledge,-by a deep and original
thinker," and will-be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation.- They! have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the mean’s of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
' Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED'WEEKLY, PBICE TWOPENCE.
‘ ' V ESTABLISHED IN -1869.
FPHE SPIRITUALIST,’ published weekly, is the
-*-■ oldest Newspaper connected! with. the movement in the
■United Kingdom, and is.the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
istsin allthe English-speaking countries throughout .the Globe; it
also }ias an influential body of readers on the Continent’of Europe.
, The Contributors to its.'pages .comprise most’of the leading and
jmore experienced Spiritualists, includnig many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science’, andthe-Peerage.. Among those who
'have, .published their names in connection with their communiea-
t tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
j Crookes.-.F.B.S.-; Editor of'.tfie,“Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
.'admits the reality of the phenomena,'but lias'; up to the present time,
' emressed* no' decided opinion, as. to their., cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace;* the-Naturalist;' PrincetEmile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) ; The-Countess of‘Caithness: :the Duke of Leuchteuherg;
Mr.'H.* G.'Atkinson, F.G.S. rLord-Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr.'.Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
, Isham.xBart:; iMrs.v Ross-Church' (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
r dougall Gregory; ithe’ Hon. 'Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
.Councillor, and. Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters-
■burg); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Diinphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J.' C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
•Honywood; Mr,‘Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
■fFahyan Dawe ;-Herr Christian Renners ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
-the “ Life of' Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
•Hall.'F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
•Algernon Joy; Mr. D. til. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
.(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
•bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
■Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
-Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
- Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, 10s. lod
•To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per.annum, which
may be: paid in‘ to Messrs. Colby and Rich,. 9, Montgomery-placc,
Boston; U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38. Great BusShll-street, London
W.C.”’
[December, 1875.]   
Printed for the Proprietor- by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
