Registered is a Newspaper.
oiV ^^Ydfio^oG^idS^
©Ibtfsi JMasjjajjtr rmnutitit luiijt Sjjiri.tnalism in ©mt §riiam.
T HE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.; g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS ,
U.Sl: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 227.—(Vox., ix.—No. 22.) LONDON: FRIDAY^ DECEMBER 29^ 1876. Published weekly ; Price Twopence.
(StontentB.
Materialism Considered as a Superstition  253
An American View of the Slade Case     ...255
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Winter Meet¬
ings — Materialisation and Transformation Phe¬
nomena—The Nature of Materialised Forms—The
Eddy Brothers—A German Baron—Spirit Drapery-
Curious Statements about Materialised Spirits ... ...256
Direct Spirit Writing Between Slates Screwed Together... 258
Psychic Phenomena. By Thomas Bell 258
Dirge. (Poetry.)     258
The Spiritualists’ Defence Fund 1...  258
Additional Original Besearches in Psychology. By T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.:—Critics and Criticism—Occult Sub¬
jects—Theories Postponed—Replies to Criticisms—
Natural Ability — Thought-Beading — Comparative
Anatomy—In My Absence—On Light—Beyond the
Knowledge of the Sitters — Proof of Independent
Knowledge—Opposed to My Opinions—Lightning
Conduetors—Galvanic Electricity—Is Mind a Pro¬
perty of Matter?—Knowledge Acquired Prior to 1864
—The Human Ear—Knowledge Acquired during
Earth-Life—Knowledge Limited, of Course—Igno¬
rance of Recent Inventions—Circulation of Blood in
the Brain—What is Thought ?—Concluding Reflec¬
tions—Summary of Facts ...   ...  259
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Clairvoyance
—Is the Mesmeric Sleep a Self-induced State ?—Pain¬
less Surgical Operations during the Mesmeric Trance
—Various Stages of the Mesmeric State-—The Mes¬
meric State Produced Without Previous Suggestion
to the Sensitive—Mr. Serjeant Cox on Various Phases
* of Mesmerism  ••• ... ... . ...   ..... ... 263
Poetry:—The Spider of the Period   ...- ...264
Paragraphs —The Royal Institution, 255; Private The¬
atricals ...  - v.    264
Spntalist IsUtosppr*
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
xpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement' is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
animal subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s. 1,'Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &o., apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, Hon, Sec.
EIGH SPIRITUALISTS’^ ASSOCIATION
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and.pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire^ 
C ARDIFF.—FREE “LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildlugs, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda for December, 1876.
Friday, Isf.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 4tt.—Seance Committee at 7 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 6th—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments.* Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 1th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, %th—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, Vlth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„; Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. At the
close of the ordinary meeting of Conncil, a
Special Meeting will he held to consider
Resolution 653, as stated in Report of the
last Meeting.
Thursday, XUlu—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
run.
Monday, House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Tfmrsday, 21st,—Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 28tt.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seanee, at 7.30 pm. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members of the Association and of Allied Societies are
admitted to the Seances by ticket, at a nominal charge, but as
there is a great demand for admission, and the numbers are
strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in advance.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be dosed from the 23rd
to the 27th December, indusive.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Conncil of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist andF.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom deplume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages. .
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. I£d., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and 9th of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also he received :—
1. TheBest Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientifie Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Ptiblie Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religious Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain: the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37. *
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to annouce that he will deliver, in January, a series of
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Ropm.
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing Jan. 12th.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles Involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE II.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“ Pneumatics;' or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”.
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modem Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answered.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,’49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
A COMMITTEE OF LADIES have much
pleasure in announcing that they have made arrange¬
ments for
A BALL,
To be held at Mrs. Burke’s Residence,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE,
On Tuesday Evening, January 9th, 1877,.
For the Amusement and Entertainment of tho younger
Spiritualists.
The tickets will he 5s. each, including supper. Dancing to
commence at half-past eight o’clock.
Tickets can be obtained at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford-
place, Russell-square; Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Lpugbborough-
road North, Brixton; Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-
street ; Mr. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and of
Mrs. Maltby, 41, Marylebone-road, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABUSHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
[Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blvton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticatprt
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus-
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigator:.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances i
several .well-known professional mediums on payment of reducfd
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the wellrsiocked Librarj,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kinuiv,.
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the room's for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of .seances,” and library catalogm-,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. . . . : - . i
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual. 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the mumns
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Veceons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment qf a minimum donation of £2 2s.
w
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 29, 1876.
BRITISH N4TI0NAH ASSOCIATION- OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S*W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, upper Horwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., IP, Cambridge.street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 81, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Mitchman, William, M.lt.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiok-square, S.W. , , , „,
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 90, Portland-plaee, W.
Itogers, E. D.,Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,X.W
Smith, Martin B., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead. N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-bmldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
A.rmfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binhey, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, CornwaU-gardens, Queen’S-gate, S.W.
Colley, Kev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe,N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook,C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kenningtcua-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, IV.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy.Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S.E,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifie-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-parkJBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house. Leeds,
wuson, D. H. M.A., Ll.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq,, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr, J. B. Andre,
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook. |
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
■ Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General do S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassois a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
U. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rqcroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 0, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.,Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq.,;F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54,Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. fi. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Nowlands-street, Liverpool.
L’ Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. 0. Emery,-Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sooledad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Bitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
TRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D!J etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the j
greatest literary ability, aud contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
S
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s. ' '
London Simekin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old- clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above*
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
iHealing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discoutinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Bue St. Honors
Paris.
MR. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his ro6ms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C.
MRS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price' Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. Johu’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
The trapped medium • or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.LG.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. ALDRIDGE (Healing Medium) has
been very unsuccessful in Business this last 3 years,
and failed about 6 months ago—since that time he has tried to
obtain employment hut could not, which has rendered himself
and family quite destitute. He is desirous of Emigrating to
Australia by the Assisted Passage, which will !cost about £25,
with Outfit and Clothing necessary for the voyage, which he
hopes to raise by Subscription. The next Ship sails about the
middle of January. Cast-off Clothing will be very acceptable,
there being three young children.
7, Alien-road, Stoke Newington, N. 12th Dec., 1876.
The particulars of this case are known to Mr. J. Wilks of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establisn-
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists,
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
' Manatee—Mbs. A. C. Bubkk
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annnm.
REVUE SPJRITE, Journal d’etudes paycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soci&tt,
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner Is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
J[ of |>WSs of anit of jlptijiittafrm,
Vo^ujvie Ki^e. Kumber Twenty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29th, 1876.
MATERIALISM CONSIDERED AS A SUPERSTITION.
The Rev. H. R. Haweis has just written a book entitled
Current Coin, in the course of which he points out how the
orthodox theology of the day has been gradually undermined
by philosophical materialists, apparently without the know¬
ledge of the clergy, who are so absorbed in contention among
themselves about minor points of doctrine that they do not
realise how largely their position is weakened. He admits
that which his brethren in the ministry are slow to own :
that there is an uneasy feeling in the minds of the old that
the foundations of the religion of the day are not so very
secure, and he truthfully promulgates that young people are
for the most part growing up without any faith at all in theolo¬
gical teachings. Mr. Haweis argues that the materialists are
doing good work, for they can but sweep away that which is
false, and that the clergy, instead of harbouring petty dif¬
ferences, should give earnest attention to the assaults made
upon the foundations of all religion, and when the ground
has been cleared by the materialists should bring down upon
the cleansed world a new baptism of spiritual fire from on
high. He also takes his readers behind the outworks of
materialism, which appear to be so firm and so strong to
those who examine them for the first time; 'he pioneers
them to the vital points, to the inner citadel, and points out
how in the first instance materialists cannot agree among
themselves as to the fundamental points of their doctrine,
and that if they did, they can none of them account for the
transformation of physical action or molecular motion into
consciousness, or vice versd. Professor Tyndall has alway s
admitted this ; he said, in effect, to the British Association
at Norwich—we do not remember the exact words—that if
the feeling of love could be identified with a right-handed
spiral motion of the molecules of the brain, and hate with a
left-handed spiral motion thereof, the great questions at
issue between materialist and idealist would be as far from
being solved as ever. This being the position, Mr. Haweis
argues that he has as much right to appeal to and to start
from the facts of consciousness and mind as his oppo¬
nents have to take their standpoint upon matter, there being
a gulf as yet unbridged between the two. This, we think,
is a fair summary of the strong position taken up by Mr.
Haweis. The general tendency of the materialists is to look
upon all Spiritualism as superstition, upon the mind and
spirit as evolved from matter, and as annihilated by the dis¬
integration of the body. Mr. Haweis argues that there is
no evidence that spirit is so dependent upon matter, the
nature of the connecting links not being known, and that
the one may be as eternal in its nature as the other.
A third, and perhaps stronger position than that of Mr.
Haweis, might be taken—
A. By denying altogether the reality of matter as commonly
understood.
B. By 'presenting the universe as altogether spiritual in its
fundamental nature. \
What is matter ? Some idea of it may best be gained by |
describing some of its properties. Matter is believed to be |
capable of existing in three states,—the solid, liquid, ]
and gaseous. Mercury is solid at a very low temperature, i
liquid at ordinary temperatures, and by the application of j
sufficient heat becomes mercurial gas; cool this gas, the i
mercury falls as metallic rain. Iron is solid at ordinary j
temperatures, liquid in the great heat of the blast furnace, j
and gaseous in the still greater heat of the electric spark.
Platinum, about the noblest and most indestructible of the j
metals, is solid at ordinary temperatures, solid also in the j
heat of furnaces, but liquid in the fierce flame of the j
oxy-hydrogen blow-pipe, and gaseous in the heat of the I
electric spark; Mr. C. F. Yarley, by means of elaborate |
electrical appliances, once, at the Royal Institution, trans- f
| formed several inches of platinum wire into platinum gas
| instantaneously. Hydrogen has all the properties of a metal
| gaseous at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere; as
I yet it has not been liquefied or solidified either by cold or
j pressure, but when appliances and methods improve,
| hydrogen may be expected to be seen as a brilliant liquid
j metal. Thus, in the eye of the physicist all matter is
| capable of existing in the solid, liquid, and gaseous forms ;
| apply heat enough, it will become gaseous; apply cold
] enough, it will become solid, although some substances have
| not as yet been solidified.
Let matter now be examined in its solid form. A bar of
| iron may serve the purpose of illustration. Measure it at
I one temperature, it has a definite length; warm it, and it
I will be found to be longer than before. Cool it, it
| contracts again. On this principle the iron rim of a cart-
| wheel is made nearly red-hot; it then will drop easily over
the wood-work; cold water is poured upon the rim, it con¬
tracts and grips the wood-work with great force. These
molecular forces are so powerful, that Professor Tyndall has
frequently burst a bombshell by the expansion of water in
the act of freezing; and the contractile power of cooling iron
rods has been used to slowly draw to the perpendicular the
walls of a house which had bulged outwards. A bar of
iron, then, is not the unchangeable thing it appears to be;
it is in incessant motion, lengthening or shortening with
every change in the temperature of the air. Therefore its
component particles must all be in a state of motion like¬
wise ; indeed, the particles at the opposite ends of the bar
measurably shift their distances from each other. What is
true of iron is true of all other material substances; they all
continually vary in dimensions with continual changes of
temperature, consequently their component particles are in a
state of incessant motion.
A little examination thus, shows that even the most sub¬
stantial forms of matter are not so very inert and stable as
the superficial observer might suppose, for the component
parts of every object which the eye can see or the hand can
touch are in eternal motion; the marble chimney-piece, the
mahogany table, the solid floor, u- the cloud-capped towers,
the gorgeous palaces ; yea, the great globe itself”—all are
in a state of ceaseless internal activity. There is no rest.
To account for these phenomena of matter the materialist
has to assume the existence of “ atoms,” swinging to and
fro with a motion not yet accurately known, each atom
separated from its neighbour by a definite space, but pre¬
vented from ever touching it by a repulsive force extending
but a small distance from itself. This being so, nobody has
ever seen an atom of matter, pure and simple, at all, for all
of them are infinitely too minute to come within the ken of
the strongest microscope.
Here, then, when the question, u What is matter ?” is re¬
peated, the materialist is constrained to admit that nobody
has ever seen an atom of that matter on which his religion
of negation is founded. At this point he finds himself upon
shaky ground even before the domain of ordinary experi¬
mental physics has been left behind in the inquiry, and before
the unknown region between matter and consciousness is
reached.
Thus, the question, “What is matter ?” cannot be answered
until a reply is given to the query, f What is an atom ?” and
as nobody has ever seen the atoms, and as materialists dis¬
agree among themselves as to their nature, the foundations
of the materialistic belief may well be attacked at this point.
Some philosophers think atoms to be small rigid particles,
something like small shot, vibrating to and fro: to this idea
Professor Tyndall and Sir William Thomson incline, the
latter having gone so far as to approximately measure he
size of the particles by a process of mathematical reasoning
254
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 29, 1876.
founded on experiment. Others consider them to be a forces
emanating from .points,” and as a point has no Ibngth or
breadth, this conception, coming, be it remarked, from the
materialistic camp, and endorsed to some extent by Faraday,
almost abolishes matter, as commonly understood, altogether.
Moreover, the fundamental nature of all force being con¬
fessedly utterly unknown, this school has landed itself, with¬
out any impetus from idealists, in a region of vague specula¬
tion. It is as difficult to define the nature of matter as to
define that of spirit.
The theory of the action of heat in altering the condition
of matter is that heat consists of the wave motion 'of a fluid
called the interstellar ether, which extends from star to star,
and fills the spaces between the vibrating atoms of solid
substances. When the waves of heat play with greater force
and velocity upon the atoms, they vibrate with more vigour,
the space between them increases, the rod of iron conse¬
quently lengthens. Increase the heat, the force of cohesion
is more completely overcome, the atoms no longer occupy
the same position m relation to each other, they roll over
each other like marbles in a shaken box; in short, the iron
bar is melted, ?and it is now possible for the atoms which
were at one end of the bar to flow to those which were at the
other. Increase the heat still more, the force of cohesion is
altogether overcome, the atoms freed from control, dart from
side to side of the vessel containing them, and this
is the gaseous state of matter. This theory of the dart¬
ing motion of the particles of a gas, has recently been applied
in a most satisfactory manner by Mr. J. Johnstone Stoney
to the explanation of Mr. Crookes’s radiometer, which for so
many months was a source of perplexity to physicists. The
accelerated vibratory motion of the atoms of ignited bodies,
also explains why the ether around them should be thrown
into waves, producing the effect called “ light.” There is
apparently no difference between radiant light and radiant
heat, but that of wave length ; the retina of the eye not be¬
ing sensitive to the impact of the longer waves, does not re¬
cognise heat as identical with light, though both obey the
same laws as regards reflection, refraction, and the way in
which they travel through space. The fact that the ether is
thrown into waves by ignited bodies, is a proof that something
in a state of vibration starts the waves, consequently is
strong evidence that the particles of a bar of white hot iron
are in a state of violent motion.
To build a world out of these hypothetical atoms, the
materialist further assumes each of them to be endowed
with polar forces, so that in quietly depositing themselves
from a liquid, they build themselves together in particular
directions, thereby constructing the beautiful objects known
as crystals. He then anxiously strives to imagine that a
complex system of crystallisation might build up the living
forms of the animal and vegetable worlds, but this assump¬
tion demands an excess of credulity and superstition rarely
found. Blind force will not account for the determination
of energy in living forms; it will account for the chaotic
piles of rock drawn by the attraction of gravitation from
the precipice above, but it will not account for atoms flowing
to their proper places, and building themselves in an orderly
way into animals, instinct with life and passions.
Hence, if we trace materialism to its roots by its own
methods, the very existence of matter is shown to be doubt¬
ful, and the theory that by its innate powers it developes
into living things a mere superstition.
The second point of the argument now presents itself—
u Is the universe altogether spiritual in its fundamental
nature?” The philosophy of Berkeley on this head is so
sound, that after giving it due consideration Professor Huxley
said that if he were compelled to choose between ptire
materialism and pure idealism he should endorse the claims
of the latter. As the theory of Berkeley harmonises so
well with the facts of Spiritualism the union of the two
builds up a position of great strength.
The following speculation, which we have several times
within the last six years put forward in these pages, tends
to show how an external world might be the result of mental
conditions; moreover, it brings in the evidence of experi¬
ment in support of the position, consequently is less
open to challenge than the fundamental doctrines of the
materialist. A mesmerist upon a platform will make
I three or four of his “ biologised” sensitives believe any-
jj thing he pleases. He tells them that a number of pigeons
I are flying above them; the youths look up at them,
j whistle, point imaginary guns, and make comments about the
jj gyrations of the birds. In this illustration we have a man
(I using but one of a number of great psychological powers, of
• j the philosophy of which he is quite ignorant, and by the exercise
| of his will simultaneously surrounding a number of human
j beings fora few minutes with a little world which is real to
j them. Is it not conceivable that an infinitely greater Intellect,
| possessing full knowledge of all psychological powers, may,
j by the exercise of an infinitely greater Will, surround a world
j| of human beings with conditions which are real to them,
! conditions which educate them morally and spiritually, con-
1 ditions based upon just and unalterable law, forcing the
j subjects to work out their own salvation in the school of
! experience? At last a time comes when these laws have
j served their purpose, and that same Will then surrounds
j the individual with other conditions and other laws, puts
jj before him another ladder which he must climb to reach
jj those altitudes to which all men, good and bad, more or less
I aspire, but, as we Spiritualists believe, cannot reach with-
s out work.
j “ But,” says one of those harmless objectors whom authors
j stick up to have the easy pleasure of knocking down—“ But,
I notwithstanding all your arguments, I have a clear convic-
i tion that that inkstand is there, and not in my brains.”
j Tell one of the boys under the control of the biologist
j that the pigeons are not real. He will smile incredulously,
j will take one of the phantom birds in his hand, stroke its
I head, lift up one of its wings, and contemptuously ask—“ Do
j you not see the feathers?”—and this pigeon, so very real
j to its fortunate possessor, was created by the will, perhaps, of
i but one uneducated man, knowing little of the powers at
II his command.
j The experience of the world tends to show that things are
I not always what they seem. The promulgation of the truth
I that the world moves round the stin, and not the sun round
j the earth, subjected Galileo to the persecution of the Inqui-
| sition ; and the presentation to the vulgar by a medium of
I phenomena greatly in advance of the average experience,
j may similarly result in his incarceration in prison, with the
I full approval of the multitude. A few years ago, had men
j been told that the dark rays from the sun, and not those of
j the light seen by the eye, exert most heating power upon
| the earth, they would not have believed the revelation; yet
jj the dark rays from the sun exert about eight times more
j heating power than the rays of light. On the same principle
j it is quite possible that the time will come when all will
U admit that matter has no existence, but that men are
j hedged in by educational limitations existing only in the
j will of the Supreme. A world thus composed is none the
jl' less real; in either case the laws are the real things, not
1 their external manifestation.
j The spiritualistic theory explains practical facts before
I which the theories of the materialist break down. In
| clairvoyance, wherein some of the spiritual powers of the
| next stage of existence are partially developed, scenes hun-
j dreds of miles away, and events which occurred in times past,
|j are seen; the materialist can but angrily deny such facts,
j but on the hypothesis we have laid down, the consciousness of
j the clairvoyant is simply surrounded for the moment with a
jj few of those conditions, and endowed with a few of those
j powers which are the heritage of all men in the next state
j of existence to the present.
| Not only are idealistic theories more in accordance with
j fact, but they meet more fully the requirements of the moral
j sense. The creed of the materialist encourages the senti-
| ment—il Let us eat, drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we
1 die.” It encourages the commission of wrong that good to
! self may result—“What matters it tome if I injure an
I innocent man ? Before the day of retribution can come both
j he and I shall be resolved into ammoniacal gas, phosphate of
j| lime, and other substances which form such interesting play-
j things to my philosophical compeers.”
! Thus on moral and religious grounds, on logical grounds,
I and on the ground of appeal to the universally acknowledged
j tribunals of fact and experiment, the position of the
: Spiritualist is stronger than that of the Materialist, and
Dec. 29, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
255
Mr, Haweis has set a good example to the clergy by carrying
the warfare into the camp of the enemy. Materialism
is a statue of burnished brass, bright and terrible to gaze
upon, but its feet are composed of those clods of clay in
which the superstitious worshippers of the fetish see “ the
promise and the potency of every form of life.”
AN AMERICAN VIEW OF THE SLADE CASE.
{From the “ Philadelphia Sunday Press.”')
Dr. Henry Slade, a medium for spiritual manifestations, has been
summoned, by judicial process, before the Bow-street (London) Police-
court, for having, on Sept. 11th, 1876, “ unlawfully used certain subtle
craft and devices to deceive and impose on certain of her Majesty’s
subjects,” &c.; and in the person of this gentleman has been commenced
a warfare on the phenomena called “ Spiritual,” which can be met and
only successfully combated by the stern logic of incontrovertible facts.
The defective testimony on which the charge is sought to be sustained
was deemed of sufficient weight by the presiding magistrate to justify
conviction, with a sentence of three months’ imprisonment with hard
labour. The case has been appealed, and the defendant released on
bail. It is foreign to the intent of this article to comment on the cha¬
racter of the evidence that produced this result, or the spirit of bigoted
blindness that prompted the accusers to bring so grave a charge, as
their sworn testimony proves, upon no more substantial basis than
“ conjecture, inference, and theory.” Whatever be the final result of
the case, Dr. Slade’s coming trial will bring the truths of the Spiritual
philosophy of religion prominently before the public, and eventuate in
raising a host of new investigators of the phenomena of which he is one
of the exponents.
The experiences of the writer with Dr. Slade have been of a character
to justify these few words in his disinterested defence. In the bright
light of day, in apartments free from juggling appliances, often in the
rooms of friends, where the medium had never before set foot, the varied
phenomena shown in the presence of Dr. Slade have repeatedly occurred.
The “ writing on the slate ” independent of any human power, has been
performed in my presence, upon a double slate, purchased an hour
before the seance, and which never left my hand. Held by the writer
under and against the top of a table on which both of Dr. Slade’s hands
rested in sight, the tiny piece of pencil has been heard to move, and the
inner faces of the slate found covered with writing, perfectly legible,
and forming an intelligent communication from a relative long deceased.
A small slate was thoroughly washed and cleaned, and while held on
the head of a gentleman present at an angle of 45 degrees, by the thumb
and finger of the medium, the minute portion of pencil thereon main¬
taining its position, a long message was legibly written. Another slate,
purchased for the purpose, was laid on the top of a table, and with the
atom of pencil beneath the under surface, this slate was covered with
writing, no human hands being near it during the manifestation. Every
precaution that intelligence and experience could suggest was taken to
prevent deception and trickery. No theory of “ sympathetic ink ” is
tenable in these cases, nor by any possibility could the medium have
performed the writing without instant detection.
Following these remarkable proofs of the presence of intelligences,
invisible, but apparent by other evidences of sense, were many other
surprising facts. With the sunlight streaming into the room, chairs
were moved without contact, a clothes-brush was violently flung upon
the table from a cabinet ten feet distant, and, resting on the floor at our
feet, at request slowly appeared rising from the opposite edge of the
table, until it fell over upon the top. Holding a large accordion with
the keys downward under the table, the keys were manipulated with a
power that tested the strength of the writer, and “ Home, sweet home,”
played in masterly style: all this while Dr. Slade’s'hands rested
quiescent upon the upper surface of the table. While the medium’s
hands remained thus, the writer’s watch was jerked out of his pocket,
his knees and legs patted and pressed, small hands, white and perfect
in shape, were thrust up between his body and the table, and his chair
and its occupant lifted from the floor. These manifestations have been
repeated again and again, and hundreds of reliable witnesses in this and
other cities can testify to the facts stated, from their own experience.
The elevation of a heavy table into the air, its position reversed com¬
pletely, with the hands of Dr. Slade barely touching the centre of its
plain surface, the powerful raps and blows accompanying his seances,
are minor phenomena equally substantiated. It is not generally known
that through the wonderful mediumship of this gentleman the incredible
feat of what is known as “spirit materialisation” has been, and can be,
positively demonstrated.
All the “ Exposes” real and fictitious, of mercenary mediums, would
fail to shake the faith of those who have been privileged to witness, in
the presence of Dr. Slade, the absolute fact of the production of ghostly
faces and forms, having the semblance of humanity and the likeness of
the departed. In this nineteenth century it is a lamentable truth that
intelligent persons deride facts at variance with their preconceived ideas
of the possible, or that may not agree with their theories of a future
life. Popular ignorance and prejudice may place under the ban of its
ridicule and incredulity, subjects of inquiry relating to the laws of our
being, that should be paramount in the world’s scientific research. The
theory of the return of the dead to earth, and their ability to manifest
their presence, is claimed as a truth by wise men of all ages, and, when
brought within the scope of actual knowledge, no language can ade¬
quately pourtray its vital influence on the scepticism of the materialistic
philosophy.
In the spring of the present year, the subject of this article, then on
a visit to this city, was induced to give a series of sittings in a private
residence. The object to be attained was the conclusive proof of the
I reality of appearances that had been witnessed in Dr. Slade’s residence
in New York, and the recital here given of the events of one evening
will suffice for the general information of the reader. A small cord was
stretched across the corner of the room, at a distance of five feet from
the floor. Upon this was hung a piece of black muslin, having an
opening or square cut out, through which could be seen the bare walls
of the room. Placing an ordinary table close to the lower edge of the
little curtain, the small circle assembled around it with hands resting
i thereon, Dr. Slade being seated in the midst. The light was sufficient
to plainly distinguish every object, and all the circumstances of the
j meeting satisfied each participant that whatever appeared, it could not
be produced by the direct act of the medium without prompt detection.
After a few moments the curtain was violently shaken, and through the
| opening appeared a white, semi-transparent face, gradually growing more
j palpable to our vision, and approaching close to the surface of the fabric.
| The features bore a striking similitude to a well remembered relative of
| one of the investigators, and when the inquiry was made as to the
correctness of the recognition, an affirmative nod was given. This ap¬
parition dissolved and successively reappeared three or four times, and
was followed by other appearances of perfectly formed faces, male and
female. In one instance a white muslin cap on the head rustled
against the edges of the opening. After each face had disappeared the
curtain was promptly lifted, but nothing was visible save the corner
formed by the walls of the room. The mysterious phenomena of the
evening culminated in a sudden blaze of light, of an intense and blinding
i brightness, illuminating the apartment with the splendour of an electric
light, and diffusing a strange odour. In a few moments this was re-
! peated, at request, in a more powerful degree, and, though lasting but
for an instant, the effect can be more readily imagined than described.
It was a startling evidence of the existence of an occult force, as
I powerful as it was transient. Dr. Slade refused to continue the sitting,
I with every indication of extreme terror at the forces which his medium-
! ship had evoked.
Many additional facts could be recounted in connection with this gen-
I tleman’s mysterious gifts of “ Spirit Control,” but sufficient has been
| given to pourtray the general character of his seances. The writer has
often witnessed these almost inconceivable manifestations, under circum-
I stances accorded but to a few privileged friends, and knows whereof he
| speaks. Golden grains of esoteric knowledge reward the honest seeker,
| gleaned from fields of research, often polluted by mercenary impostors,
but vast in extent as the universe, and embodying the forces and powers
! of all nature. Assuring man of his existence after this life is ended,
the phenomena produced through Dr. Slade and other “ sensitives ” are
well worthy of serious investigation. The earnest student can lift the
veil, and be permitted to view the great land beyond the border, even
though it be but in transient glimpses. Delving amid the occult forces
of nature he seeks for the solution of the mystery of “ Life,” and his
reward will be ensured in the actual knowledge of the presence of those
whose gently falling footsteps will be welcomed, as those of the “ de-
| parted,” ministering to the loved ones of earth. The facts recited in
1 this narrative form but a trifling portion of a mass of evidence demon-
| strating the existence of intelligences around us not of this world, exer-
| cising powers that set at defiance the known laws of nature. In a
I rapidly ascending scale of phenomena, they culminate in the reappear¬
ance in objective bodily form of those who have passed the portals of
| death, and satisfactorily identified themselves. The chilling and unsatis-
| factory creed built upon mere faith, need no longer swell the ranks of
I the materialists, but is swept away by the knowledge that there is a
“ Spiritual body,” which is indeed the everlasting temple of God. Into
I the blinded eyes of scepticism can be let the “ fight that shineth in
j darkness, though the darkness comprehendeth it not.” To many a
heart burdened with affliction and doubt, consolation will be given in
i the facts of super-mundane intercourse, and the candid and patient
investigator, willing to lay aside old prejudices, will in time realise the
| solid foundations upon which is reared a belief that to-day numbers
I among its converts some of the brightest intellects of the civilised
| world. E. D. M.
| Philadelphia, Nov. 30, 1876,
The Royal Institution.—The new session at the Royal Institution
| began yesterday with the delivery of the first of the series of six
Christmas lectures, adapted to a juvenile auditory. These Christmas
lectures, which by the labours of Faraday and his successors, have
come to be regarded as quite a national institution, are experimentally
illustrated by means of the appliances in which the establishment is so
rich, and are attended not only by boys and girls fresh from school, but
by those of older growth. To the last days of their lives it was the
pleasure of Sir Roderick Murchison, Faraday, and other aged philo¬
sophers to be present at these annual gatherings, at which members of
the Royal Family think it a pleasure to occasionally preside. The
present series is by Dr. J. H. Gladstone, F.R.S., on “ Fire ”; the second
lecture of the course will be delivered to-morrow (Saturday) at three
| o’clock, and will end at four. Among those who will give Friday
i evening discourses shortly are Professor Tyndall, Sir John Lubbock,
Bart.,M.P., and Professor Huxley. At the Royal Institution the best
!! philosophers of the day popularise the latest of their discoveries in
I such a way as to interest general but intellectual audiences, and it is the
best establishment in this country for gaining information as to the
i recently-unveiled secrets of the universe—as to new discoveries in the
j realms of nature. True, the most important of all the facts of nature
I are there ignored or even abused. This is not the fault of science, but
j of those professors who in this respect have proved themselves un-
j worthy of their high calling, and of the principles they profess. A
splendid full-length statue of Faraday in white marble is now on view
j in the entrance hall of the Royal Institution; its permanent position
; has not yet been decided.
THE SfIRItftlALIST
Dec. 29, 1876,
^56
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
On Monday night, December 18th, one of the ordinary fortnightly
meetings of the members and friends of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
under the presidency of Mr. W. H. Coffin.
MATERIALISATION. AND TRANSFORMATION PHENOMENA.
The Chairman said that the cause of experimental psychology and
Spiritualism at large had been greatly indebted to the lady who would
read a paper before them that evening; her labours, particularly in
the braneh of the subject which she had taken up, entitled her to re¬
spectful attention from the audience.
Miss Kislingbury, Secretary to the National Association, then read a
paper upon the “ Transformation of Form.” The memoir was printed
in last week’s Spiritualist.
■ The Chairman remarked that the paper was a valuable one, and that
Miss Kislingbury had done good service in pointing out the way in
which one term had been employed to cover a great variety of mani¬
festations, for until the phenomena were differentiated, it would be
useless to apply an hypothesis to them ; each fact should be tried upon
its own merits, arranging the manifestations in the order of their im¬
portance, as experience dictated. Many Spiritualists understood, or
believed in, the passage of matter through matter, by the medium being
released from his bonds, and giving by his appearance the idea of the
presence of a spirit, thus enabling the observers to begin to appreciate
the reality of higher manifestations. The least complex of these
manifestations seemed to be that in which the medium in some way
became released from his bonds, and by rearrangement of external
environments presented form and features different from his own, and
such phenomena seemed to have been understood before Spiritualism
itself came to the front. When a person was in a state of hypnotism it
was only necessary to suggest to him that he was another person, for
the characteristics to take such firm hold of the subject as almost to
change form, feature, and gesture, to resemble the person who the
subject was told that he or she was for the time being. In ancient
times it was said that such transfigurations had been seen. This
being the most frequent manifestation of the kind, it would seem that
the next was that in which the tangible body of the medium was not
released, but another body appeared resembling that of the medium.
These things were believed in, and had been experimented upon by
many people and philosophers. It was quite an old thing in the East
that a man can travel in spirit while the body is in a state of sleep or
reverie, and some mesmerists believed in cases in which a person had
been told to go to a place very far distant, and had projected some of
his psyche to such an extent that a body had been seen at the distant
place, where it has been recognised, heard, and felt. If that were the
case, and if the spiritual body could make itself so very tangible and
visible, it would seem to be an advanced form of the phenomena. If,
on the other hand, a form manifested differing in external character¬
istics from that of the body of the medium, there he thought they had
a manifestation much deeper than could be accounted for by their
speculations. If intelligence worked with certain energy to produce a
material form, it was to be supposed that there must be some matter
from which the body of that form could be made, and it would seem
impossible for the most transcendental chemist to assume that in the
atmosphere there were enough material particles to form such tangible
bodies as were sometimes presented, differing altogether from the form
of the medium. It seemed as if a spirit could take some material
from the medium, and insinuate into it some of the character¬
istics of the body intended to be shown; thus the parts became as
much transfigured as if they were a new and separate individuality
altogether. Miss Kislingbury had read a logical paper on a subject on
which angry personalities had been raised, and she had put the facts
in a clear, common-sense point of view, a view which did not oblige
the. observers to speak of fraud, imposture, and so forth, but to divide
the manifestations into their proper orders.
THE NATURE OF MATERIALISED FORMS;
Mr. G. R. Tapp remarked that an exhaustive paper had been read
by the worthy and able Secretary, and that his own observations
corroborated hers—indeed, they had attended many seances together.
The term, “ materialisation,” was vaguely used to cover a variety of
phenomena which were worthy of consideration. He thought that the
personation of a spirit frequently took place under conditions pre¬
cluding the medium from doing it by ordinary means. Nevertheless,
he was sure, from his own experience, that the form was sometimes
built up entirely separately from that of the medium; this he had
tested on some few favourable occasions, both by sight and touch. He
had found that the form so built up, and apparently so solid, was
sometimes but a mere shell. He could not explain this, but so it was.
On the other hand, he had proved that the medium was sometimes
biologised by those influences called spirits; the form was altered, and
the individuality of the medium gone for the time being. It was a
curious and perplexing subject. Some time ago he thought he saw
daylight and the way to a clear theory, but as his knowledge of the
facts increased, he had occasion to alter his first views and to defer the
application of his hypothesis. The best way to get information was not
to discompose or to worry th$ medium by th,e imposition of severe tests,
but to let the phenomena take their own course, and watch them care¬
fully to find out all about them by observation. Outsiders might think
this to be encouragement of trickery, but experience proved that in
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the mediums were quite unconscious
of what was going on. They were in the same condition as a sensitive
upon a platform hopelessly under the control of a mesmerist. Where
deception and trickery were practised, they were in the majority of
cases not due to the medium who was in an insensible state—but to
those influences which the observers called “ spirits.” He had met, he
was sorry to say, with cases of decided imposture on the part of the
medium, but these had been few. Before sitting down he would men¬
tion a remarkable fact; in some of those instances, in which he had
seen real materialisations, there had been for a moment a most horrible
and cadaverous odour which became perceptible directly the separation
occurred between the materialised form and the body of the medium;
it was the odour of decomposition. Others had noticed it as well as
himself, and had spoken to him about it before he pointed it out to
them.
Dr. Carter Blake said that he had tried to investigate the nature of
that body which appeared in a place where the medium’s body was not;
the form of the medium might be there, but the matter and substance
of the medium were never there. Although the matter of the medium’s
body was absent, they were not entitled to affirm that there was any
diminution of the quantity of the medium’s body, and if they gave at¬
tention to the substance underlying matter they would see no difficulty
in supposing that it might be in two places at the same time. He had
tried to bring out the more ancient views of the Peripatetic philosophy,
by means of which one could imagine conditions in which form existed
at a separate spot without the matter being there, and the conditions
might be due to spirit control. About the mimetic resemblance be¬
tween the materialised form outside the cabinet, and the medium when
thoroughly secured inside, the form so produced was a mobile form, it
was in a state of change. It changed from causes within itself and not
from the thoughts of the observers, and it was objectively there to all
the spectators. The cadaverous odour mentioned by Mr. Tapp he had
not smelt, but was inclined to ask if it were associated with the cold
wiud which often passed over persons in circles. He was thankful that
the subject had been brought before them, and the differences clearly
pointed out between form manifestations and that higher phase called
materialisation.
Mr. W. H. Harrison stated that he thought what took place when a
materialisation medium was tied and sealed inside a cabinet was this—
Energy was taken from his whole body or from that part of his body
intended to be formed, the result being that at a little distance from him,
an invisible hand, for instance, began to form; although the hand could
not, at this stage, be seen, it gradually approximated so nearly to
ordinary material conditions as to be able to move a chair or other
object. When objects were moved about a room in daylight, at a dis¬
tance from the medium, there was something occasionally to be seen
in their motions tending to indicate that they were moved by a hand
governed by intelligence, rather than by some blind force. To return to
the phenomena going on in the cabinet. As the invisible hand gradually
grew more material that of the medium became colder and colder, be¬
cause of the vital energy drawn from it, and at last a point was reached
where two living hands could be both seen and felt; at this stage that
point of delicately balanced conditions was reached in which the
medium and the materialised spirit bad frequently been seen at the
same time. But the operation might be continued still further, until a
greater amount of intelligence and life was contained in the materialised
form, and the body of the medium gradually disappeared altogether
although a ghost of it might still remain within the bonds. This
accounted for the common manifestation of the freeing of mediums from
the securest of bonds which had been carefully and leisurely applied and
sealed by critical men ; they were commonly enough freed from such
bonds in the twinkling of an eye, so as to be able sometimes to walk out
of the cabinet almost upon the heels of the person who had just
finished securing them inside. He could never understand the
theory of the persons who in the past had sometimes been
admitted to spirit-circles, but who in the future he hoped would be
locked out altogether—he meant those persons who sometimes seized
one of these forms. Did they expect to find a spirit in their hands,
and the medium inside the cabinet ? If so, by the mere act of grasping
one of these things they expected to have two persons living on this
earth where but one had existed before—a positive act of creation.
Clearly the two forms must coalesce, and whether they united in the
hands of the observer or in the cabinet, he thought to depend upon
the relative proportions of energy in the two forms at the time of
the seizure, and that the lesser proportion would fly to the greater.
He felt convinced that a medium would be killed some day by some
such trick. A. case had occurred recently in America in which the
form, by mere physical force, was freed from the hands of a press¬
man ; the medium was found in the cabinet directly afterwards sealed
and secured as at first, but very ill, and her face covered with blood.
He had never seen any good recognisable-face manifestations. He had
sometimes been present when excitable persons had gazed doubtfully
at a white thing which, in the semi-darkness, looked something like a
human head, and had asked, perhaps, “Are you my uncle Roger? ”
The object then bowed three times, and some enthusiastic reporter
had chronicled it as a wonderful recognition of a departed relative.
He had seen several such cases, but not one in which a living and
mobile face had appeared in a good strong light, so that its features were
clear to everybody, and some responsible person had then recognised
it beyond all doubt. He nevertheless believed that such manifesta¬
tions were common in America, but in this country they had not yet
generally developed to any extent.
THE EDDY BROTHERS—A GERMAN BARON.
Mr. C. C. Massey : I can confirm what Mr. Harrison has said about
the way in which these phenomena are observed by enthusiastic persons.
I passed a fortnight in the United States at the stances of the Eddy
Brothers, in Vermont, last year, and anybody who could describe
things well from a disbeliever’s point of view could make a good book
out of the facts. We were all seated at a distance from the cabinet,
iu an execrable light. No accomplice could enter the cabinet, and the
Deo. 29, 1876.
THE SPlHlTtJAlilST,
257
question simply was whether the figures which appeared in different
costumes were William Eddy, the medium, or not. Usually we had
the Indian business first, all of us holding hands. Afterwards a dusky
young man would look out, and we had to say, in turn, all round the
circle, u Is it for me ? ” When the right person was reached, three
taps would be given, and the fortunate possessor of the ghost would
gaze doubtfully, upon which the ghost would look grieved, and that
generally softened the heart of the observer, and brought about a
recognition in the remark, “ Lor, so you be ! ”—(Laughter)—and that
sort of thing went on night after night at the Eddy’s. During the
fifteen or sixteen nights I was there, no one came who claimed to
belong to me, and if a ghost had done so I had made up my mind to
anxiously ask, “ Are you so-and-so ? ” at the same time naming some¬
body that I never knew1. But now comes the mystery. I went to Mrs.
Huntoon’s, who is said to have been lately caught cheating, and very
likely she has. I examined the seance room closely, even to the grain
of the boards, until I was quite sure that there were no means of
entrance except through the doors, after I had sealed up the window
outside with mosquito curtains. My observations extended over
several days, and I took every possible precaution against fraud. I
induced the medium to sit outside the cabinet in a fair light. Faces
came between the two curtains at the entrance of the cabinet; one of
them had on a gold uniform cap, and nodded to me. I applied my
test, saying, “Are you James Mansfield?” The head was shaken
impatiently, and I thought to myself, “I have failed.” It then gasped
out half a name, “ Will .” The people in the circle said, “ He says
his name is Will.” I had a brother in the navy whose name was
William, and not a soul in "Vermont knew that such was the case. I
thought, “ Maybe this is true after all, and perhaps spirits can come
back even in such a place as this.” Day after day, night after night,
I toiled several miles to give this spirit a chance of enabling me to
identify him. I asked for the name of my brother’s last ship.
Gurgling attempts to give me that name were made, without
success, and I said, “ Will you rap ? ” I called over the alphabet, but
there was no rapping. At last I got a rap- at the wrong letter, and I
said, “You are not what you pretend#to be;” then, even in that
miserable light, I could see a look of distress and embarrassment which
almost made me relent the harshness of my judgment. I attended
again, and said, “ I have heard of a medium who gives "answers to
communications; can you answer through her 1 ” He gave an eager
assent. I said, “Will you give me through her your Christian name
and that of the ship 1 ” He said, “ Yes.” I accordingly wrote to the
medium, and my letter was returned to me with in t result whatever.
Dr. Carter Blake has said that it is rare that the medium is conscious
of imposture. There was once a very good medium here from
America, but who, unfortunately, took to giving materialisation
seances. I attended one, and out came the medium as - a German
Baron. Somebody suggested that the Baron had on a false moustache,
and as the medium had full confidence in me, the gentleman in charge
asked me to go up to see. I held the little woman by both hands, and
I nearly burst out laughing; I then gazed at her mournfully, as much
as to say, “Why do you do this ? ” but she looked me full in the face
without the slightest symptom of consciousness, and after staring at
her for some time I released her. I am positive that that was the
medium herself, and that she was quite unconscious of any fraud.
These are facts, if they are of any use to you, make the most of them.
Mr. Harrison remarked that he had seen the German Baron ; one
corner of the moustache turned down towards the left shoulder, and
the other side of the moustache turned up in the direction of the right
eye. He did not venture to make any remarks, but one of the sitters
present hesitatingly asked—“ Is there not something wrong about that
moustache ? It is all on one side.” A lady present remarked—“ Yes.
I saw that too. Perhaps he died so ! Perhaps he died so!! ”
(Laughter.)
Mr. Thomas Shorter remarked that there were several accounts of
materialised spirits having been weighed at the Eddys, and that they had
been found to vary very greatly from the weight of William Eddy.
Could Mr. Massey tell them anything about that 1
Mr. Massey: I had no experiences of that kind. Although the
Eddys knew that I had come all the way from England to see them,
they would not allow me to try a single experiment, and did not give me
the commonest facilities for observation.
Dr. Carter Blake said that he knew of no statistics as to the weight
of a medium when under control, and that information on that head
would be valuable. Though he admitted that the features of the
German Baron resembled those of the medium, he was bound to
state the fact that the height of the Baron, when the boot-heels
were firm on the ground, was much greater than his own; that the
diameter of the shoulders was much broader than his own ; and the
clavicles, on which he had placed his hands, were distinctly masculine.
The medium alluded to was of small and delicate feminine stature.
SPIRIT DRAPERY.
Mr. Simmons knew a little about Mrs. Compton’s manifestations, still
he could not speak from his own experience. Dr. Newbrough had told
him how he had bound Mrs. Compton with waxed cords made for the
purpose, after which he nailed her black alpaca dress to the floor.
After he had secured her to his satisfaction, he joined the circle outside,
and out came .a form smaller than Mrs. Compton, and elaborately
dressed in white; indeed, he said that it would take thirty or forty
yards of cloth to make such a dress. He was asked to go into the
cabinet, and found nothing there but the medium’s empty chair. He
then came out, spoke to the form, and asked for a piece of her dress.
She said—“If you cut this out there will be a hole in the medium’s
dress” j and he replied that in such case he would give her a new one.
He then cut a piece about the size of a man’s hand out of the white
robe ; the form then entered the cabinet. After a time he was asked
||\ to go in, and he found the medium secured with the waxed cords, and
nailed to the floor as at first, and in her black dress was a large hole in
which the piece of white cloth fitted. He afterwards cut out a large piece
from the black dress in order to show to others the hole in which the
fragment fitted. Since then, Dr. Newbrough had had the materials
examined and analysed, and they were found to be in every way of the,
same nature, although of a different colour. His (Mr. Simmons’s) ex¬
perience in materialisation had not been so extensive. He did not
| think that he had ever seen what appeared to be a double of the
medium on any occasion. He had seen many mask-like faces, also faces
like those of living beings, and which had the power of moving their
eyes and features, and were in every way perfect. They had, in New
York, a painting, executed by Mr. Fanshaw, of a spirit who had been
regularly materialising for the purpose through one medium, and who
| more and more perfected the manifestation at every sitting. When
the face could appear perfectly enough the spirit sat about five times
| to have his portrait taken. On one occasion the head of hair only was
| very perfectly materialised ; at the second sitting another part of the
| head was more carefully materialised, and so on; when the picture
was finished, the gentleman for whom it was painted said it was a good
likeness. The owner , of the picture was the Hon. M. C. Smith. The
I spirit of which he had been speaking sometimes appeared in the pre¬
sence of Mrs. Kane.
CURIOUS STATEMENTS ABOUT MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
| Mr. G. R. Tapp remarked that he had never been present when a
I materialised spirit was weighed. Once he was present when Mr.
| , Crookes wanted to weigh “ Katie,” and had fitted up a mercurial
| balance for the purpose, but when she saw the preparation she! ex-
| claimed, “ I do not like to be weighed like a sack of coals, and I wont
I • go on that thing.” (Laughter.) It was of no use trying to persuade
| her, and the experiment, fbr that evening at least, had to be given up.
Katie then volunteered the information, “ Sometimes I am heavy,
sometimes I am light.” She was almost always larger than her medium.
Once he (Mr. Tapp) lifted her up with her permission, and she felt like
| a lay figure with loose joints, and he told her that she was like a doll
| She remarked “Well I have made myself as; well as I can.” The
figure was scarcely human. He believed that these figures were not
anatomically perfect. Once he found that Katie had no bone in her
Ij wrist, and after he had proved this by careful examination, he told Dr.
Gully, who was present, that such was the case. Dr. Gully then
examined the wrist and found that there was no bone there. After
some little conversation with her about there being no bone in her wrist
she said, “ I will put one in presently.” She went into the cabinet
and shortly came out with a wrist like that of any ordinary human
] being. Dr. Gully saw that this also was the case. Miss Cook had the
habit of biting her nails, so had none to scratch with, and one night
when Katie let him examine her hand, he found that she had large fine
round nails. She said, “ Do you see them ?” he replied, “Yes, and I
should like to feel them,” upon which she drew them down the back
of his hand, and he felt them much more than he wished. This was
one of many pieces of conclusive evidence that Katie was not the
medium.
| Miss Kislingbury, in reply to the various speakers, remarked that once
| she was at the house of Mr. Crookes when “Leila,” materialised
| through Miss Cook’s mediumship, and the members of the cirele asked
whether Mr. Crookes might lift her, in order to ascertain her
weight. Permission was granted.* Mr. Crookes used his utmost
force and could not move her in the least. Once Mrs. Cook asked
Katie to bring her medium out into the open circle when she
had a favourable opportunity, and some days later Katie did it,
! but Mrs. Cook said that she never wished to see such a sight
again. The body of the medium had shrunk, and the sight was
not a pleasant one to look upon. As to the difficulty of proving
| identity in the present phase of the manifestations, she did not think
that every unrecognised spirit should therefore be accused of deception,
for there were many difficulties in the way of manifesting, and it
might be as difficult for them to deal with matter as for mortals to
deal with spirit. The case in which the wife of Mr. Livermore, the
New York banker, appeared to him and wrote long messages in her
well-known handwriting, was one of the instances m which identity
was absolutely proved. She (Miss Kislingbury) had not been present
at Bastian and Taylor’s seances, but the appearance of the brother of
| Mr. Eonalds appeared to have been demonstrated. As to the subject
of the releasing of mediums from bonds—once Miss Cook was fas¬
tened and sealed by the neck and waist to the library ladder in the
! house of Mr. Crookes, and almost before the spectators had taken
their seats outside the cabinet, she was with them bodily, with the
| tapes and seals unbroken.
| Mr. Massey (who now occupied the chair, in consequence of the
| unavoidable departure of Mr. Coffin) moved that a vote of thanks
should be given to Miss Kislingbury for her paper. Most of those
j present were looking out for some philosophy to explain the pheno¬
mena with which they had been dealing; he had none, but he thought
that he was upon the track of one. He had been going back to the
philosophical writers of antiquity, and he found them to be pregnant
with hints and experiences, and that something of all these things
was known to observers of past ages. Afterwards came“a momentary
lull, owing to the rise of modern thought, which, unfortunately, was
almost coincident with the rise of modern materialism. He was sorry
to say that the wholesale destruction of what we called “witches”,
must have almost destroyed the race of persons who propagated these
phenomena. It almost amounted to the extermination of the species ;
] but now modern toleration—which was scarcely better than a kind of
contempt—had allowed the irrepressible phenomena to spring up again
to distress their friends the materialists, and some of the latter were
I evidently inclined to resort to the means of the Middle Ages to stop
THE SPIRITUALIST,
258
Disc. 29, 1876.
them. There was a mine of wealth on these subjects in the literature
of the Middle Ages, especially in the history of the Fathers of
the Church, and in the writings of Plato, Porphyry,. and the later
Paracelsus. These records contained hints which might be worth
following up.
The proceedings then closed.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING BETWEEN SLATES SCREWED
TOGETHER.
Mr. John Mould, of 12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, writes to‘us under the date of December 22nd,
1876
“ I have been holding sittings with Willie Petty in my
own house for slate writing on a folding slate tightly screwed
together, and I have had several most successful seances, but
the most conclusive obtained was on Wednesday night,
when I put a sheet of my own note paper between the slates,
screwed them together, and, after sitting ten minutes, I un¬
screwed the slate and found a side face drawn on the paper,
with a message written below ; this experiment was repeated
with improved results in the caligraphy of the spirit, who
also signed his name.
P The sitting was conducted, in the usual gaslight of our
house. The medium never touched the paper, and had
nothing whatever to do with the experiment beyond holding
the slate under 'the table with one hand while the other
rested on the table.
“The only sitters present were my wife and son and
daughter.”
For the sake of Dr. Slade, we hope that five or six
mediums who obtain slate-writing manifestations will be in
London during the coming season, so that members of the
intellectual classes to the number of more than 500 per
week may witness the facts and be able *to form as just an
estimate as Spiritualists of the merits of the Slade case.
PSYCHIC PHENOMENA *
BT THOMAS BELL.
On the 10th November, 1874, I had, at a few hours’
notice, to visit London. Shortly before starting from New¬
castle, I received a telegram from Middlesborough to the
effect that a vessel belonging to me was wrecked that morn¬
ing near a place in the neighbourhood I had never heard of
before, and that the captain was very much injured. This
was all the information I possessed of the accident. Within
twenty-four hours of receiving it I called on a well-known
professional medium, Miss Lottie Fowler, of 21, Princes-
street, Regent-street, London. She was a stranger to me,
and I believe I was unknown to her. No other person was
present. After conversing a short time she appeared to
become entranced; her eyelids remained fully open, but only
the whites of the eyeballs were visible, the pupils being
turned away. After reciting with considerable detail and
accuracy, though not without some error, many events of
my life, extending over a period of thirty years, down to the
day of our interview, and including the particular business
on which I went to London, she described the loss of my
vessel in the following terms, which I wrote down the same
day, with the view of testing their accuracy: “ She said
that a vessel belonging to me was wrecked, but not lost.
She had run on shore—not on the sands nor on rocks, but
on a bank 'kof something like stones, but not stones. The
ship had a big hole in her bottom, and the mast, steering
wheel, boat and rudder were washed away. The captain was
very much hurt. One man was drowned. The vessel was
now out of harm’s way, being on shore, but she would take
a deal of fettling up, as she was much damaged. I had
insured her, she said, a short time ago, but not nearly for
her full value, and I would sustain a great loss. The vessel
was not loaded with coals nor with casks, but she thought
there were some bags. She sailed between Shields and a
distant place.”
With the exception of asking if she knew anything of
one of my vessels, and what she was loaded with, I studiously
avoided putting any questions that might lead to the answers.
On my return to the North I had the vessel surveyed, and
* A communication read at the last meeting of the Psychological Society of Great ii
Britain. ■ i
the following is a verbatim extract from the surveyor’s
report, dated 17th December, 1874 :—
“I have to-day been to Middlesborough, and surveyed the Hebe.
I found her sunk about 3 feet into the slag-bank, with considerable
damage. Her keel bilges, floors, and keelson, I think, are broken, star¬
board, sides and deck are risen up nine inches, butts all started, rails
and bulwarks partly gone, foresail, mainsail gaff, and rudder gone,
wheel and spindle broken, fore and afters and hatchers gone. I esti¬
mate if she is got off and repaired under Lloyd’s surveyor she will cost
from £900 to £1,000.”
The vessel was on her passage, in tow of a tug boat, from
Middlesborough to the Tyne, laden with ironstone, and when
off Hartlepool was overtaken by severe weather, and had to
run back to the Tees, but was driven on shore at its mouth
by the force of the storm on a deposit of blast furnace slag.
I had insured her shortly before for £1,200, but I neverthe¬
less sustained a loss of several hundred pounds by the
disaster. No sailor was drowned, but the captain was
seriously injured.
In conclusion, I call attention to those points, of the
recital of which I was totally ignorant at the time of my
interview with Miss Fowler, viz.: 1. Of the nature of the
shore on which the wreck occurred; 2. Of the extent of
damage to the hull and fittings on board; 3. Of the vessel
being out of harm’s way; and 4. Of the loss that I would
sustain by the mishap.
Crosby-court, Northallerton, Yorkshire.
DIRGE.
Fare thee well, Old Year, for ever,
Kindly let our parting be,
Joy or sorrow thou canst never
Bring again, old friend, to me.
Mindest thou our early greeting?
Tears thy first gift were to me;
And in this our last sad meeting,
Tears are all I leave to thee.
Tell me, tell me art thou winging
To some mystic zone thy flight,
Where the stars their hymns are singing,
O’er the waves of endless light ?
Where sweet harmonies are swelling,
Strains unknown to mortal ears;
Where reclad in youth are dwelling,
All the dead and buried years.
Tell them of my spirit’s yearning,
How through passion and through strife,
Faint and wounded, I am learning
The deep mystery of life.
For the sweetness that they brought me,
Tell them that I love them yet;
And the evil that they wrought me,
For that sweetness' sake forget.
Each with ruthless hand hath broken,
Some link of the golden chain;
Of its passage left a token,
In an aching, wordless pain.
In pale silence thou art lying,
White thy shroud and still thy face,
While through space the New Year flying,
Comes to fill thy vacant place.
Hark! the winds thy dirge are singing,
Fold thy hands above thy breast;
Would that I with thee were lying,
Shrouded in eternal rest.
Georgina Baker.
THE SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
The Executive Committee met ou the 4th, 11th, and 18th inst.
Messrs. Munton and Morris’s account for past legal proceedings in
the case of Dr. Slade has been settled, and £50 has been allotted to
Dr. Slade on account of future proceedings.
Dr. Monck has been invited to address a statement of his case to the
committee.
Mr. Jones was requested to watch Mr. Lawrence’s case.
The Chairman reported having received £264 3s. from Messrs.
Colby and Rich on account of the subscriptions received by them for
Dr. Slade’s defence, and that he had paid the same into the account of
the Treasurer at the London and Westminster Bank.
The Chairman also handed in a cheque for £50 received from Mr.
Aksakof on behalf of the St. Petersburg Committee who engaged
Dr. Slade.
Mr. Martheze has increased his subscription to £20. Mr. W. Tebb
has doubled his subscription on hearing that the Treasury have taken
up the prosecution of Dr. Slade.
The total of subscriptions reported on the 18th instant amounted to
£718 3s.
The Committee will meet again on the 1st of January.
A. Joy, Honorary Secretary*
Deo. 29, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 259
ADDITIONAL ORIGINAL RESEARCHES IN PSYCHOLOGY* j j
BY T. F. BAEKA8, P.O.S. ^ 1 v lU
I do not in the least exaggerate the facts when I state that the |jj
address which I was privileged to deliver to your society a few weeks i !
ago, under the title of “ Original Researches in Psychology,’’ has been ||i
the means of rousing a considerable amount of interest and earnest j/j
inquiry in the minds of large numbers of thoughtful persons, of all j (j
classes, who have read the very lengthy reports which appeared in the j 11
newspapers, or who have become possessors of and read the verbatim j j
report which has been issued by your society in a pamphlet form.
CRITICS AND CRITICISM. ! j
The almost entire absence of all calm and rational criticism of the ! j
address I have already delivered has somewhat surprised me. I had i j
hoped that some really intelligent and candid minds would have re- j j
viewed and criticised the address in a becoming and logical spirit, but ijl
instead of honourable criticism and review, for which I always feel duly j| |
thankful, and to which I always give proper consideration, there has j
been little else than ribald buffoonery, the genuine characteristic of
prejudiced minds. However foolish and inane may be the proceedings j
at some seances, they are excelled by the nonsense which men, who are [f!
ordinarily sensible, write when the alleged phenomena of Spiritualism iji
are placed before them. j |
OCCULT SUBJECTS. ' j j
Why are these occult subjects not approached in a dispassionate j j
manner? Why should men lose all calmness and reflection when ! j
extraordinary phenomena are introduced to them by ordinarily credible r j
witnesses ? Why are they, after the world-wide experience of the use- j j
lessness of nearly all d priori methods of discriminating between the | j
true and the false, still resorting to that method, and utterly neglecting 11 j
the only rational process of investigation and verification by oft-re- |||
peated experiment ? j j j
I had intended to reply to such reasonable objections as might be j j
offered by the press in reference to my last address, but on the exami- j ]
nation of the letters and criticisms which have appeared, I have been | |
ashamed of the crass ignorance and blind prejudice which are manifest | i
in the productions of one circle of Kterary critics, and the erotic gross- | j
ness which presented itself in others. I may except the Literary World jj |
for November 24th, 1876, in which there is a reasonable, though some- Ij |
what adverse, criticism of my previous address; and also the Newcastle j j
Chronicle, oi October 25th, in which there appeared a critical article ijj
under the title of “ The New Apocalypse.” I j |
Time, however, which is always on the side of truth, and has worked j i
wonders in the past, will do so in the future, and when facts have been in
sufficiently accumulated and placed before the general public, the blind- | i
ing influence of prejudice will gradually disappear, and many men who j j
now look at the subject through a thick barrier of rigid preconceptions, j j |
will be enabled to examine it with unbiassed minds, with a sincere lj
desire to learn the truth, and not with the resolution to expose a pre- j
determined error. ' jj
THEORIES POSTPONED. jj
It was my intention to have proceeded to the exposition of a theory j
which I think fairly covers the whole ground of the phenomena, but in jj
view of the ignorance and prejudice which so extensively prevail, I have ij
determined to proceed with the statement of facts, leaving the philosophy j j
which underlies the facts to do, what in the end it very well can do, viz., j j
take care of itself.
The battle may continue to rage round the theories of fraud, self- !
deception, obscure physical laws, automatic nerve action, unconscious j
cerebration, psychic force, occultism, seducing spirits, doctrines of j
devils, human supra-mundane ministrations, celestial influences, or jj
what you will; but, in the meantime, facts are the most important jj
verities to be established.
What is objective truth in relation to these strange phenomena? To jj
a department of that problem I propose to address myself this evening, jj
It will have been observed, that in my previous lecture some of the jj
answers, although doubtlessly clever, were, nevertheless, erroneous; j
that, however, is not a matter for surprise, because whoever or whatever jj
the answerers were, they were human and finite; and perfect knowledge j
is not predicable of humanity in this world, nor, possibly, in the next. j j
The finest student who ever took a degree or senior wranglership in a i j
university, did not receive that degree for the infallibility or absolute j
accuracy of his replies, but merely for their general excellence, and, on j
the assumption that the replies given to the questions I asked were ij
given by a departed human being, it would be, in the last degree, absurd j
to suppose that the mere removal from one state of existence to another j
should give him perfect ability to answer, with absolute correctness, any i
scientific questions that might be propounded to him. This, however, I jj
can say, in reference to the questions asked, that, although there are errors i
and misconceptions in some of the answers, the vast majority of them jj
would not do discredit to the cleverest terrestrial student of science.
REPLIES TO CRITICISMS.
I have, by voice and letter, received various objections to the supra- j
mundane nature of the phenomena which I introduced to you in my i
previous lecture on psychology; the chief objections being two in i
number. First, that the answers bear a considerable resemblance to j
those I would be likely to give to the same questions, and that, there- :j
fore, they may have been read clairvoyantly from my mind; and second, j
that the lady herself may have been sufficiently well educated to possess j j
the knowledge, or may, from week to week, have read up for the purpose j
of answering the questions. ij
I shall endeavour to reply to the last objection first, viz., the ability jj
of the lady normally to answer the questions. 1 H
* An Address delivered to the members of the Newcastle Psychological Society, in it
their Lecture-room, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, on Monday evening, l(
December 18th, 1876, under the presidency of Mr. H. A. Kersey. i(
NATURAL ABILITY.
I have ascertained that she has received a very ordinary education,
having been for a short time a scholar in an infant school in the north
of Ireland; at an ordinary mixed Wesleyan day school, in London, from
the age of nine to that of twelve years; and at a female school from the
age of fourteen and a half years to sixteen years. At none of those schools
was she taught science. I have further ascertained that she is not, and
never was, devoted to the study of science; that she never read a scien¬
tific book, nor attended a scientific lecture, until she attended some of
mine in the winter of 1875-76. I have conversed with her many times,
but never on any one of those occasions did she let fall a word that gave
the slightest indication of her possessing a knowledge of science in her
normal condition. With respect to the suggestion that she gets the
subject up from week to week, I may state that questions are propounded
of which she has no previous intimation; that she does not possess,
and has not access to, scientific books; and those who live with her, and
see her from day to day, have informed me that she never looks at a
scientific work, nor does she take any interest in Scientific subjects.
THOUGHT-READING-.
To the first objection, viz., that the questions may have been
answered through some process of thought-reading, I shall reply by
giving illustrations of questions and answers, the answers being opposed
to and beyond the opinions and information I possessed, and relating to
scientific and historical facts of which I had never heard or read, and of
which I possessed no conscious knowledge.
I shall also, I think, be able to prove that whoever the real answerer
of the majority of the questions is, his information respecting terres¬
trial science does not extend beyond the year 1864 (the year in which
the chief control says he departed this life), and that although his
knowledge of scientific facts prior to 1864 is unusually extensive, his
knowledge of scientific facts discovered after 1864 is almost, if not
entirely, nil.
To the proofs of these positions I shall now address myself, and I
ask your patient and discriminating attention while I place them before
you.
COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.
In order to meet the objections of thought-reading I shall, in the first
place, quote answers to three questions which I forwarded for replies
through a member of the seances held by the lady in March, 1874, or
fifteen months before I had spoken to or become acquainted with her, and
the fair inference is that, under those conditions, the probability of her
reading my mind was very small. I may next state that the questions,
as you will perceive when I read them, are of a kind the answers to
which were not likely to be known to the members of the circle, and, indeed,
not likely to be known by more than one in one hundred thousand
educated persons. The control has, according to previous and subse¬
quent inquiries, no special knowledge of comparative anatomy or palaeon¬
tology, but the answers are manifestly those of a well-educated person,
who has a general knowledge of the fundamental principles of these
sciences; and they are not such answers as could be given by a com¬
monly educated person.
Q.—Is the distinction sought to be established between Sauropsida
and Ichthyopsida accurate, and, if so, why ?
A.—I have never studied comparative anatomy. I cannot answer
that question myself, but I will try and bring some one that can.
Q.—Have all the sauroid fishes, ancient and modern, the same kind
of enamelled teeth, and, if not, what are the exceptions ?
A.—That is a question for a geologist as well as an anatomist, but I
will try to get it answered.
Q.—What is the difference between Batrachians and true reptiles ?
A.—By Batrachians I believe you mean toads, frogs, and the like
amphibia. They are the connecting link between the aquatic and ter¬
restrial animals, and differ from them in the respect of their respiratory
organs.
These are general answers, but they certainly indicate that the
answerer has a respectable although not a special knowledge of these
obscure departments of natural science. Possibly no single person in
this room could answer the questions better, and as far as the answers
go they are correct.
The conditions under which the answers to the questions were given
it is unnecessary to recapitulate, further than to say that they were
written instantly after the questions were asked, and within sight of the
sitters, necessarily without premeditation, and in all cases without
revision. Those who know the difficulties which attend writing with
accuracy hastily composed unrevised communications, will be able to
appreciate the comparative accuracy and clearness of expression which
characterise the communications from the controls of the medium.
Who among us has literary skill and reputation enough to afford to have
the rough uncorrected drafts of our best compositions published without
revision, and without the opportunity of verbal corrections ? As to the
mode of conducting the seances, the details were given at length in my
last lecture, which has been published by the Newcastle Psychological
Society, and may be had of all booksellers.
IN MY ABSENCE.
I shall next quote answers to questions which were submitted to the
controls of this medium by members of the circle prior to my attending
the seances. It will be seen that the mental characteristics of the com¬
municating agent closely resemble those that obtained during my
presence, and the answers, therefore, and forms of reply could not in
those cases be read from my mind, as I neither heard of nor read the
questions and answers until many months after their occurrence.
On April the 3rd, 1874, Humnur Stafford professed to be present,
and the members of the circle asked for instructions on light. The
following was written■
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 29, 1876.
ON LIGHT.
A.—There are two theories of light, the emissionary and the
undulatory. The emissionary, generally ascribed to I. Newton, sup¬
poses that light is composed of small particles of matter emitted from
a luminous body with exceeding rapidity and celerity, and travelling
with the enormous rapidity of 180,000 miles per second; these particles
falling upon the retina, thereby causing a vibration of the optic nerve,
propagated along the solid fibres of the eye, causes the sense of sight.
This theory is, I believe, now generally rejected for that of the un¬
dulatory, which assumes there is a subtle elastic fluid pervading not
only infinite space, but all bodies, solid, fluid, and gaseous. Suppose
you consume all the gases which compose the common air, as in the
exhausted receiver of the air pump, there is that left which, I believe,
you call luminiferous ether. This ether, when acted on by a luminous
body, becomes subject to certain rapid movements, or vibrations, or
waves. This ether cannot be eliminated by the processes commonly
used, as in the air pump. These two theories are the subject on which
your scientific men disagree, yet both are correct. In continuing these
studies, I shall have to give acoustics with light and heat, as, being so
closely related, one explains and teaches the other; yet I almost despair
of teaching you more than you could learn of yourselves, for any views
I may here set forth would be probably rejected by all your scientific
men as being too simple for a sensible person to entertain. When I say
that motion is the source of light, heat, and of sound, and that mag¬
netism is the cause of motion, where is there a person who would listen
to another word ? And yet it is so! Science is as yet in its veriest
infancy, and it is too early to proclaim such facts as these. I must
content myself with teaching you such things as may be useful to you
here, remembering that the angel called Uriel said to the prophet
Esdra, “ Unto the woods was given the ground, to the sea its floods, and
to the earth such as are of the earth, knowing that only they who are
of the earth can understand the things of the earth, and they of the
heavens those things that are above the height of the heavens.”
In the foregoing answers, notwithstanding my absence from the
seances, we have illustrations of scientific knowledge, forms of ex¬
pression, and style of composition very similar to those given in my
previous lecture, proving, I think, the individuality of the control, as,
whether I am present or absent, his scientific knowledge and modes of
expression remain the same.
I shall now proceed to prove that the information conveyed was
beyond that which I possessed, and in fact beyond the knowledge of the
vast majority of those who are not specialists in the particular depart¬
ment of science to which the essay or reply refers.
BEYOND THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SlTTEBS.
Towards the close of a long seance, held on the evening of September
6th, 1875, at which music and acoustics had been the subject of con¬
versation, I suddenly changed the topic, and asked—
Q.—What is light?
A.—Before answering any questions on this subject, would it not
be better, for the uninitiated, to give an anatomical analysis of the
structure of the eye, since, without that, the subject is but imperfectly
understood? Either you or I will do this.
Q.—I should be very glad if you would give us your ideas of the
anatomical structure of the human eye, and especially with reference
to the recent discoveries of Helmholtz in relation to the structure of the
retina.
A.—This gentleman, you so often quote, is quite strange to me; I
shall be glad if you will tell me of him.
I then explained to the control the substance of what I knew respect¬
ing Helmholtz and his scientific labours, and asked the following
Q.—Please to confine yourself to a popular description of the struc¬
ture of the human eye, unless you are acquainted with Helmholtz’s
recent theories.
A.—I know nothing of this gentleman, his theories, or his works.
The human eye is convex, in front of which the spherical cornea is
placed. It is enclosed in three, or, as it is not generally acknowledged,
in four coats, the schlerotic, the choroid, and the retina, which is not
really a coat, but merely an expansion of the optic nerve. On the outer
side of the schlerotic is a coat, covering even the cornea, which is known
in medicine as the adnata, or conjunctiva. The choroid coat, which is
within the schlerotic and is of a dark brown colour, is known as the
pigmentum nigrum, to absorb all unnecessary waves of light. First,
we will take the cornea, or window of the eye, a laminated, transparent,
talc-like substance, within which, enclosed in a tunic, is the aqueous
humour; behind that is the iris, which acts as a diaphragm, cutting off
all the outer rays which would otherwise enter the pupil. The crystal¬
line lens, a convex lens, or a double convex lens, more convex in the
part which is situated in the vitreous humour, which fills the large
cavity of the eye, collects the rays of light which enter the pupil, and,
being focalised, these are photographed on the retina, which being set
in motion by the rays of light which enter the eye—not those which
reflect the object—acts as a stimulus to the optic nerve, which carries a
sense of feeling to the brain. The eye no more sees than does an in¬
strument made by the optician, it only reflects and photographs the
objects.
I am not sure that this is a very clear explanation. I cannot better
answer your questions respecting the structure of that organ.
PROOF OF INDEPENDENT KNOWLEDGE.
We have in this reply a very lucid, and, on the whole, correct de¬
scription of the anatomical structure of the human eye, but the portion
of the description to which I specially desire to refer is the use of the
word adnata. I had never either seen or heard of the word, and cer¬
tainly did not know that it was a synonym of conjunctiva. I next day
asked several medical friends the meaning of the word adnata, and with
one or two exceptions none of them had ever heard of it. One medical
j j gentleman kindly looked the matter up, and found that, adnata and con-
>1 junctiva were synonymous; they did not, however, appear in any
| modern work, but he found them in an old edition of Quairis Anatomy,
)j p. 228, nata born, ad with, adnata born with. Here we have an indica-
) I tion of one of two things, either the medium is acquainted with ancient
(| anatomy, or her hand is controlled by some one who possesses that
( i knowledge. In view of all the facts, the latter is much the more probable
) i hypothesis. This fact, which is one of many, clearly proves that the
( | information is not derived from my mind, as some of it was entirely out-
[ i side of my circle of knowledge.
OPPOSED TO MY OPINIONS.
I now propose to give you illustrations of answers to questions, which
answers were not in accordance with my own opinions, but in fact
directly opposed to them.
On the evening of January 10th, 1876, an anatomist professed to be
present at our seance, and after replying at great length to questions
respecting the brain and nervous system, at the close of his answers or
essay, there was written through the hand of the medium:—
He says he thinks this sufficient for once, and proposes to continue
next week. May I ask you to repeat to us the explanation you gave
of the manner in which lightning conductors act on the charged cloud ?
This request had reference to a lecture on electricity, which I had
delivered a few days before, and I wrote—
LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS.
Q.—So far as I remember, this is the substance of what I said in
reference to lightning clouds and conductors. When a positively
charged cloud comes into the neighbourhood of a building having a
lightning conductor on it, the electricity of the conductor is polarised,
and the top or distal end of the conductor is charged with negative
electricity by induction, and as the cloud approaches the induction
increases, and when the cloud comes sufficiently near, the tension
becomes so great that it discharges itself into the conductor, and is
conveyed to the common reservoir—the earth—without injuring the
building.
A.—Thanks; then allow me to 'correct you. Lightning conductors
never at any time withdraw electricity from the clouds—the rod draws
the negative electricity from the earth, and discharges it into the
positively electrified cloud, and partially neutralises it. At times when
the clouds are positively charged to such an extent that the conductor is
not sufficiently large to withdraw sufficient negative electricity from the
earth (the earth is always negatively charged by induction from the
positively charged cloud), then it is that buildings are destroyed.
Q.—Do you not think that, in the majority of cases, the electric charge
leaves the cloud and strikes the earth or building on the earth ? and is
it not more probable that when electricity, as you describe it, leaves
the earth and goes to the clouds, that the clouds in those cases are
negatively charged and not positively ?
A.—It may not be generally known or understood, but it is really the
case, that in almost every case negative electricity is given off either
from the earth or negatively charged cloud by the conductor, whether
on an ordinary lightning conductor, or hill, mountain, or water. A
positively charged cloud induces negative electricity iu everything,
whether that be cloud, water, or the earth, and it is a fact that the earth
always gives off its negative electricity in preference to receiving
positive from anybody. This may not be accepted, but it is nevertheless
perfectly true.
Q.—If your theory be correct, how is it that during thunderstorms we
almost invariably observe the luminous streaks, whether zigzag or chain,
appear to leave the cloud and strike the earth, and rarely ever appear
to leave an object on the earth and proceed to the clouds ?
A.—For this reason; it seldom happens that the electricity is dis¬
charged directly into the cloud from the earth, but from the vapours
contained in the atmosphere, and for the same reason that in obtaining
a spark from an electrical machine, the spark which is supposed to leave
the conductor appears as though coming from the finger. This theory
is not my own, but is held by Faraday, Alphonse Galvani, and many
others.
Q.—With all deference to you and your friends, we yet feel disposed
to hold the opinion that when a body is positively charged, as for ex¬
ample a prime conductor of an electrical machine, that the luminous
spark or stream certainly appears to come from the machine and enter
the discharger.
A.—What! do you suppose a flame, say the flame of a candle, in¬
duces positive or negative electricity, and in what condition do you say
it is always to be found ? You wifi at least agree that it is a powerful
conductor.
Q.—We do not know whether the flame of a candle induces positive
or negative electricity. Please to inform us, and at the same time
will you explain this—How is it that some clouds are negative and
others positive?
A.—A flame is supposed, by all I ever spoke to on the subject, to be
strongly positive. If a wire from an electrical machine be pointed to
the flame after the positive be drawn off, the negative electricity will
rush towards the candle with sufficient force to put it out, This supports
my theory that it is the negative electricity which combines with the
positive to neutralise it, not the positive combining with the negative,
and I believe in no case is positive electricity given oft', but negative
withdrawn to restore the positively charged body to an equilibrium.
The reason why one cloud is positive and another negative is, that
the earth is always negative, some philosophers say minus, but this is
not correct. The upper stratum of the air is positive, and when much
moisture is given off from the earth it becomes charged with the posi¬
tively charged cloud by induction. This induces opposite electricity
in all under it, and the under cloud induces the opposite in the one
under it, forming a continuous succession of positively and negatively
Dec. 29, 1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
charged clouds, and unless by the wind decomposing or dispersing
the clouds the equilibrium is maintained, but as soon as one posi¬
tively electrified cloud comes into close contact with a negatively
charged one lightning is the result, as you explained.
GALVANIC ELECTRICITY.
Q.—Thank you for this interesting explanation. Having six jars
with zinc and copper plates, and properly charged with acid, how would
you arrange them to obtain the greatest quantity of galvanic force, and
how for the greatest intensity ?
A.—Please repeat the question. Dp you mean Leyden jars, or the
ordinary galvanic battery ?
Q.—I mean the ordinary galvanic battery.
A.—By having the conductors of each pair in connection with an
extra conductor from the first and last of the jars, and to obtain the
results you mention, I would use zinc and graphite, not copper and
zinc.
Q.—Would the arrangement you describe give us quantity or in¬
tensity ?
A.—It would give both. The zinc and graphite give a greater
quantity, and the conductor receiving the electricity from each of the
six pairs, gives you intensity. Quantity always tends to give intensity
if drawn off by a fine conductor, and another plan would be—rub the
surface of the zinc with mercury, ordinary zinc not being pure. This
is always done in Daniell’s battery. He calls it amalgamated zinc, but
of course voltaic electricity is never of so great a tension as frictional
electricity.
Q.—Do you not obtain as great a tension from voltaic electricity by
induction in superior induction coils as you obtain from an arrangement
of frictional electricity ?
A.—I think not. So far as I personally know, voltaic electricity is
obtained in almost any quantity, but is of low tension, while frictional
electricity, though small in quantity, is of high tension, and I know of
no method whereby it may be obtained in as high tension as frictional
electricity.
Q.—Recent arrangements have, I think, through voltaic electricity
and induction, developed electricity of as high a tension as in ordinary
frictional arrangements. The best induction coil is Ruhmkorff’s, and
at the lecture on Thursday evening I shall have pleasure in explaining
it to your medium, if she be present. I hope you will also be there.
A.—I shall be glad to see the coil you speak of. The only apparatus
I am acquainted with that obtains the electricity of the highest tension
is Bunsen’s or Daniell’s. The first is composed in the first place of a
glass vessel filled with eight parts of water and one of sulphuric
anhydride. Into this is inserted a zinc vessel, within it is placed a
porous cell partly filled with nitric acid, and in it is suspended a plate
of platinum. The oxygen of the water and the nitric acid by sym¬
pathy unite through the porous cell, and form nitric peroxide, which
exercises a very powerful influence on the plate of platinum; the elec¬
tricity thus generated is of high tension.
Reflect for a moment on the absurdity of the hypothesis that a person
illiterate in science could conduct a discussion of this kind, or that any
ordinarily educated person could by any means be so prepared at
numerous points as to reply to, refute, and instruct one who for many
years has devoted himself to the study of the physical sciences; and
the preposterousness of such a theory must be manifest to all who are
not hopelessly blind to possibilities.
.1 have not in any way cooked these remarkable replies. They are
given verbatim with their manifest errors—errors in grammar and fact,
that are evidently the result of hasty composition and rapid communi¬
cation, and they are frequently corrected by the controls in other portions
of their communications.
IS MIND A PROPERTY OP MATTER?
If these phenomena be true they suggest very important reflections.
Mind is not a mere property of ordinarily organised molecular matter,
secreted by the brain—as bile is secreted by the liver—as Cabanis and
many other physico-psychologists state, but is independent of any
ordinary physical brain; and yet Professor Huxley professes to have no
more interest in this subject than he has in “ the chatter of old women.”
Marvellous is the supremacy of prejudice, and the conservatism of the
pride of supposed knowledge.
KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED PRIOR TO 1864.
I shall now endeavour to prove that the knowledge of the control is
extensive in reference to scientific discoveries made prior to 1864, the
year on which he says he departed this life, and that his knowledge of
scientific discoveries made after that date is very limited, if not nil. I
have on many occasions engaged in scientific conversations with this
intelligent control, and, after having conversed with him for hours, I
have suddenly introduced a question having reference to discoveries in
science made since 1864. In every instance, when I have tried an
experiment of that kind, I have been met with a reply to the following
effect: “ That is an experiment I have not before heard of; ” or, “ That
is a subject of which I have not any knowledge; please to explain it to
me.”
I have never had any difficulty in obtaining replies to scientific
questions, within the range of his professed sphere of knowledge, when
those questions referred to scientific facts discovered prior to 1864. I
shall now give one or more illustrations of these strange facts.
On the evening of December 20th, 1875, after a learned conversation on
optics, I changed the conversation to that of hearing and auditory appa¬
ratus, and asked for a description of the external and internal auditory
apparatus of a crustacean, a fish, an aquatic reptile, and a mammal?
A.—I have never studied comparative anatomy ; I might be able to
give the anatomy of the human auditory nerves, and explain the
apparatus for hearing, but not that of difl'erent forms of animal life.
26i
i Q.—-We shall be glad to have a description of the human ear.'
I THE HUMAN EAR.
A.—The human ear is divided into three distinct parts, each for the
purpose of condensing and magnifying sound, and the apparatus itself
is the most complex and intricate of all the functions. It is divided into,
first, the external ear, that cartilage known to anatomists as the pinna,
which is situated at the ramus of the jaw at the back of the temple.
Its elevations and depressions each have a name to distinguish it, as the
helix, anti-helix, trkgus, anti-tragus, &c. This is the ear proper, or the
visible portion; the several depressions merge into one central cavity,
| which is called the concha, from its shell-like or funnel shape, and is
the entrance to the auditory canal or meatus. The meatus terminates
J on what is called the tympanum, a fine membrane, which is stretched
across a cavity in the temporal bone; at the back of this membrane are
placed four small bones, called each by a distinctive name. One the
malleus or hammer. The other three have the faculty of stretching or
tightening the membrane when a wave of sound impinges on it, and the
malleus, or hammer, strikes upon it, causing a magnified sound to enter
the cavity, beyond which it is reverberated along the rugged interior of
the cavity, and is sent through a system of semi-circular canals, which
| are placed ready to receive the tremor of the membrane or tympanum.
These semi-circular canals are known as the perpendicular, the hori-
| zontal, and oblique, and at their bases are a.series of vase-like cavities,
each filled with a watery crystalline substance. At the end of these
• j canals is a convoluted shell-like cavity known as the cochlea. The in-
II terior of this cavity or cochlea is filled up with a thin bony partition,
11 separating the inner convolutions, and are called the scala tympani and
11 the scale vestibuli from the direction in which they are found. Over all
[ j the convolutions of the cochlea is spread an exceedingly fine membrane
11 called the cochlear nerve, which is fitted to receive the slightest vibra-
) | tion of air or sound, and directly at the back is placed a series of fila-
! | ments, known as otoliths and crystalline particles. These filaments and
| the cochlear nerve are the expansion of the auditory nerve, spread as a
I disc in the same manner as the optic nerve is spread to form the retina
| of the eye.
i Q.—Had you before departing this life ascertained the separate
j functions of these filaments to which you refer, and do you know how
| many there are of them, and if their functions are common, i.e., can
| one of them do the work of another ?
KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED DURING EARTH-LIFE.
A.—I had ascertained all my knowledge of these things, and such like
j subjects, during my earth-life; but the knowledge of the otoliths and
(| the filaments is not my own, but of a friend with whom I was a short
11 while ago conversing. Of their actual functions I am not able to speak
) | positively, though the nerve auditory, or seventh pair, is separated into
| two branches, one forming the facial portion, branching out over the
I face and neck, and the other the soft portion, being broken up into
(| exceedingly fine branches, and distributed all over the interior of the
(| labyrinth, vestibule, and other parts of the ear, in fact, forming the
| i whole lining of the interior and middle portions of the ear, finer in that
n part surrounding the cochlea; the filaments behind the cochlear nerve
\ | act in a vibratory manner on the nerves spread around them, and the
)! impression of sound is conveyed to the sensorium by the immense num-
/1 ber of vibrations caused by six millions of branches of the auditory
(i nerve, and these vibrations are too numerous to be determined.
Q.—Do you mean six millions or six thousand ? Perhaps you are
(| not aware that recent investigations, in Germany particularly, appear
(! to have led to the conclusion that those small free filaments which you
> i describe as being in the ear are, in reality, about three thousand in
(I number; and that each filament has a distinct function, that, in fact, it
II is constructed to respond to only one sound, just as a vessel of glass will
) i respond to only one sound, This is Helmholtz’s theory, and you will
| i remember that I have often before mentioned his name.
{\ A.—Thank you. My information is not of very late discoveries, and I
} I am glad of any knowledge of later discoveries. I was not mistaken in
(i saying six millions, that is the lowest computaffibn. These small nerves,
j I or branches of nerves, are so minute that they may not be seen except
) \ by a powerful microscope, and even then the finer ones escape observa-
(j tion, they are an interlaced net-work forming the entire lining of the ear.
) | Q.—Thanks. What are the sizes of the otoliths in the human ear;
| they are'mere grains in rudimentary ears, and they are large bones in the
(! ears of fishes. What are their sizes in the human ear ?
j I ‘ KNOWLEDGE LIMITED, OF COURSE.
(| A. I cannot tell their exact dimensions, but they are visible to the
j | naked eye without difficulty, though I believe they vary considerably.
) j Q.—Thanks. How are the various motions appreciated in the human
(! ear, when music from a large orchestra is being performed. I mean how
j: are they discriminated by the mind ?
) i A.—When a large orchestra is heard of course an immense number of
\ ] different sounds are produced, and as each pulse of sound falls upon the
j j ear in isochronous vibrations, the bones which stretch the tympanum
t: are drawn to their fullest extent, the mallens work with exceeding
i \: rapidity, and the sound of course is conveyed with equal rapidity to the
|) i tympanum, condensed by the canals, reverberated again, and brought to
i( j a focus, as it were, on the cochlear nerve, and the filament set in motion,
I! each acting as the fingers do on the wires of a harp, on the different
branches of the auditory nerve, and a sound is produced in the sen-
| sorium, or that sensation of feeling which all the senses are but a modifi-
j cation of.
In the foregoing answers there are distinct indications of an extensive
i knowledge of the anatomy of the human ear, as understood about fifteen
i) [ or twenty years ago, but of more recent discoveries, and especially those
in by Helmholtz, there is no indication of such recent knowledge, but, on
I {i the contrary, an aknowledgment of the want of it, and this want
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 29, 1876.
of knowledge of all the more recent discoveries in science harmoniously
characterises the whole of the answers given in this investigation. I
shall quote another illustration from the many cases of the absence of
recent knowledge which have transpired during this investigation.
IGNORANCE OF RECENT INVENTIONS.
On the evening of Jan. 3rd, 1876, after a long and critical conversa¬
tion with the control on various branches of Frictional and Voltaic
Electricity, I introduced the following question relative to a, newly
invented electrical machine, and [said—
Q.—Will you kindly explain to us the principle of Holtz’s inductive
electrical machine, and received the following brief answer.
A.—I do not know it.
CIRCULATION OF BLOOD IN THE BRAIN.
As a concluding illustration of the variety, scope, and cleverness of
the answers given to the questions asked, I shall quote the substance of
a seance held on the evening of January 24th, 1876, at which six gen¬
tlemen were present, none of whom (except myself) profess to possess
any knowledge of human anatomy. The usual control, Humnur Staf¬
ford, informed us through the hand of the medium that a doctor was
present, and I wrote—
Q.—We shall be glad to' have the Doctor’s further remarks on the
brain and nervous system.
A.—All that the Doctor wishes to say in reference to the brain is as
regards the circulation, to finish the superficial sketch he has given.
Q.—Thanks; please to proceed with the circulation. '
The medium, before writing the following reply, hastily and auto¬
matically sketched a diagram of the arrangement of the basilar arteries,
and then wrote very rapidly.
A.—The sketch is intended to present the square junction of the
arteries, which are called the circle of Willis. The main trunk is called
the basilar artery, being a junction or union of the right and left inter-
costals, connected with a transverse bar called the posterior cerebral.
The two arteries forming the sides are the communicating arteries,
given off from the upper ones at the corners of the upper part of the
square union, called the internal carotids; the upper bar is the anterior
cerebral, and the centre, where they are joined, is the transverse com¬
municating.
Q.—Thanks; please to continue.
A.—This completes the arterial circulation, all others being continua¬
tions of the same vessels. The venous circulation is carried on in the
first place by means of the sinuses, which are formed by the pia-mater,
and are at times called the interior jugulars, from the fact that, after
leaving the skull, they form the jugular veins, which afterwards unite
with the sub-clavian. The peculiarity of the arterial circulation of the
head and brain is, that the vessels take such zigzag directions, doubling
upon themselves in such a manner as to double the distance between
the heart and brain. This is in order to prevent a too rapid flow of
blood to the brain. Each vein has a double quantity of valves while
within the cranium, and also in the jugular vein, to prevent a too rapid
exit.
Q.—If you have not anything further to say respecting the veins and
arteries of the brain, will you oblige by informing us how the blood acts
on and nourishes the brain 1
A.—Arterial blood is known to be some three or four degrees lighter
in weight than venous blood. This is from the fact that those gases
which are generated in the lungs, or cellular tissue, and thence sent
through the whole body, expand themselves in the brain, which absorbs
all the gas from it and the blood, and the blood returning through the veins
absorbing all the substances the residue which gathers in the membran¬
ous tissue of which the veins are composed, carries it back to the heart,
thence to the lungs, to be reorganised, as it were, with the oxygen from
the atmosphere, and gives off the heavier carbonic acid gas, with which
it returns loaded.
WHAT IS THOUGHT ?
Q.—Do you consider mind or thought a mere cerebration of matter,
or action of blood upon the brain ? How is thought originated 1
A.—Thought is merely one chain of vibrations set in motion by some
object, as light is the result of a vibration from a common source.
Q.—Is thought, then, like light, a mere mode of motion in the brain,
and if so, how do you think ?
A.—Man spiritually is perfect without a body at all. The body, with
all its organs, is only required for the education of man spiritually.
Each organ and function of those organs is working to the same end.
Every action of life is attributable to vibratory movements. The action
of the air upon the skin sets in motion the nerves spread upon it. Each
motion of the nerves is the origin of some thought; the nerves, magnetic
and sympathetic as they are, convey instantly the vibration to the brain,
and thence to the whole body.
The blood conduces to deep thought in this way. The gases with
which the blood is loaded are the source of magnetic fluid. When the
fluid is in excess, the predisposition to deep thought is more felt.
You are no more your own agents in this matter than is any inanimate
body.
CONCLUDING REFLECTIONS.
The evidence in this case, as in all other psychological inquiries, is
of necessity based on the balance of probabilities. To my mind, after
the most painstaking investigation and the introduction of many critical
tests, I have arrived. at the conclusion that, extraordinary as are the
phenomena, they are nevertheless perfectly genuine. I have many
reasons for accepting the absolute truthfulness of the medium. I
believe her to be incapable of wilful deception; but even if she were
disposed to practise deceit, it is in the last degree improbable that she,
or any other moderately educated person, could reply to the diversified
questions asked in the manner in which they are answered.
The medium has no motive, either of gain or of reputation, which
would induce her to deceive; she declines to accept any remuneration
Hi for her services, and so indifferent is she to public recognition, that she
!) i declines to have either her name or her address published,
j j The two leading charges, therefore, ordinarily brought against
I j j mediums by a thoughtless public, do not at all apply in this case.
| > ] Those only who have passed through the ordeal of acquiring scientific
Hi knowledge will be able to appreciate the difficulty of replying with
|j| approximate accuracy to hundreds of scientific questions on various
m departments of physics, without premeditation and ample time for
| < i preliminary preparation.
I > i The answers which were given in many instances not only cover the
K | questions, but extend much beyond them, and indicate, by their sug-
| i gestiveness, a very extensive, rather than a superficial, knowledge of
!>; the various subjects. Had the questions been limited to pure physics,
!§j the answers would have been sufficiently remarkable, but extending, as
III they do, to physiology, psychology, ethics, and the future life, they are
I > I yet more wonderful and inexplicable on any natural hypothesis.
! | I suggest to those who are desirous of testing their knowledge of the
I) | various subjects that have been submitted to the controls of this medium,
|) i to take the few illustrative questions I have given, even after they have
|) j heard the answers, and endeavour to reply to them with a conciseness
Ijj and clearness equal to those that characterise the answers I have sub-
ijj mitted to you.
| | The great error into which opponents fall in this inquiry is that they
| I allow themselves to be hoodwinked by prejudice, and do not fairly and
i | dispassionately examine the real merits of the phenomena submitted to
!(! them.
jjl During these investigations I have avoided, as far as practicable, all
i/j questions of a merely speculative character, or having reference to a
|(| sphere of existence of which we have no personal experience, and,
I)| therefore, no means of testing the accuracy of the statements made,
j | With the exception of the evening when, in deference to the wishes of
II i others, I asked questions having relation to the future life, the inquiries
| ! were, for the most part, confined to matters having relation to terrestrial
] 11 science, the accuracy or inaccuracy of the answers to which might easily
ijj be determined. I did this because I had every reason to believe, and
j) I now finnly believe, that the medium has no scientific knowledge, and
j j could not possibly normally answer the questions which were asked.
||| Assuming that such is the case, there appear to be only three hypo-
|)| theses by which the phenomena may be accounted for, viz.:—That the
j | j medium was clairvoyant, and read the answers from the minds of the
j ! sitters; secondly—That although she appeared to be in her normal
j ! state, her faculties were by some means so exalted and abnormal that
| j she could give able answers to questions on subjects of which she had no
11 j normal knowledge; or, thirdly:—That she was controlled by some intel-
j jj ligence or some intelligences who possessed the knowledge and used her
j j hand automatically for the purpose of communicating the answers,
j (j Whatever theory may finally be adopted in order to account for these
j) j strange phenomena I feel confident that the clairvoyant and involuntary
j j action theories are absolutely untenable.
1(1 SUMMARY OF FACTS.
|) | I may, in conclusion, briefly recapitulate the topics of the questions
j|| and answers contained in this evening’s address,
ijj In the first instance, we have answers to questions on comparative
i j anatomy and paleontology which no one but an educated person could
i | i give; in the second place, we have an excellent essay on light, which
j j! would not do discredit to any student of science; in the third, we have
i j j information on human anatomy quite beyond the knowledge of any of
11 the sitters at the seance; in the fourth, we have a very elaborate and
ijj learned discussion on the subject of atmospheric electricity, in which
jji the control expresses opinions diametrically opposed to those of the
j 11 questioner; in the fifth, we have some valuable information on voltaic
i j electricity; in the sixth, we have evidence that the knowledge of the
j)j control is to a large extent restricted to that he possessed prior to
ij| j departing this life in 1864; in the seventh, we have an admirable de¬
scription of the structure and functions of the human ear; in the eighth,
we have indications of the limitation of the knowledge of the control,
and of the fact that he is now obtaining information; and in the ninth,
we have through a medical control a very excellent and extensive
| description of the arterial and venous circulations in the human brain,
I and replies to questions on the physics of the brain and the phenomena
of consciousness.
These facts cover so large a field of research, and treat of subjects so
obscure and occult to the ordinary mind, that it is next to impossible for
one untrained mind to give replies at all to be compared with those that
j were given by the educated controls of this young lady medium,
i Inquiries in psychology differ greatly from investigations in physics.
In the latter we have material laws apart from organisation, while in
the former we have not only physical organisation, but psychological
qualities, the nature of which is very slightly comprehended. Man ap-
;, j pears to be the crown of nature’s fruits on the physical side, but the
j I footstool on the side which is spiritual, and the latter is a realm which
j j j the science of the schools appears to be afraid to enter.
I j There appears to be no escape from these and similarly well au-
l|| thenticatedfacts except the cowardly process of intellectual suicide,
ijj At the close of the lecture several questions were asked and answered.
ijl ■ The next fortnightly meeting of the National Association of Spirit-
j)j ualists is adjourned to Monday, 15th January, 1877.
iji Last Sunday the Rev. Dr. Bayley delivered a sermon at the Sweden-
jjj borgian Church, The Mall, Kensington, on Modern Spiritualism. A
ijj report of it will appear in the next number of The Spiritualist.
Ilf The Hon. A. ^.ksakof, of St. Petersburg, informs us that Miss
Iji Lizzie Anderson is in that city, giving her conjuring performance in
iji imitation of Spiritual manifestations. He says that she announces
that her public seances have been approved by the British Association.
Dec. 29, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GEEAT BEIT AIN.
At the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society,
held on Thursday, last week, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, announced that Mr.
Balliston and Mr. Holmes had been elected to fill vacancies in the
Council, and that Mr. Edward Gordon had been elected an ordinary
member. He further stated that the first part of a paper by Professor
Plumptre, on ‘‘The Human Voice considered Psychologically,” would
be read at the next meeting of the Society to be held on the 18th of
January.
clairvoyance:
Mr. Seijeant Cox stated that the following facts had been communi¬
cated to him by a clergyman residing at Darlington. The circum¬
stances occurred some years ago ; the “ A ” mentioned in the narrative
was that of the clergyman’s own wife, and “ W ” one of her servants:—
“ W put into mesmeric state by A . No one else present. In
Durham. L , one of A ’s sisters, ill in Glasgow, was being
waited on by another, E . All are perfectly conscientious, truthful
persons. A had never been to L ’s house in Glasgow. W ,
in mesmeric sleep, is taken to visit L and E . W described
monthly nurse precisely, and even particularly drew attention to the
extraordinary style of her caps. She was asked where is E 1 ‘Not
in the bed-room.’ Then she, with expressions of sympathy, said, ‘ She
has just come in with a tray in her hand, run forcibly against a screen,
and hurt her nose dreadfully ; she is suffering much pain.’ Next day
A wrote to E , and in the corner of her letter, without any
apparent reason, asked—‘ What were you doing last night at seven
o’clock ? ’ The answer was—‘ I nearly killed myself by running
against the screen with a tray in my hand, and I’ve hurt my nose very
much indeed.’ On E- ’s return, in conversation, she told A 
that the monthly nurse’s caps were the oddest things ever seen, and
that W —’s description of them was true. A paper was at the time
drawn up and signed by these three ladies, as the facts were so extra¬
ordinary. This paper was handed to Sir James Simpson’s assistant,
who did not believe in the existence of such facts at all.”
The Honorary Secretary read a communication from Mr. Bell, which
is published upon another page of this number of The Spiritualist.
IS THE MESMERIC SLEEP A SELF-INDUCED STATE ?
Mr. W. H. Coffin re-opened the discussion upon Mr. Valters’ paper
on Mesmerism. He premised that every thinking man would come to
the two following conclusions, namely, that there are times when the
human subject is brought into an abnormal condition in which there
is a suspension for a time of the will and volitional powers, and that j1
in that condition the mind is in a position to receive suggestions
sufficiently forcibly fixed upon it, after which it begins to work out
those ideas in an abnormal way. Under such influences the subject
could be made to do absurd, illogical, and inconsequential things.
There were points also on which all observers were not agreed, namely,
whether the subject is thrown into that state by a determined effort on
the part of the operator as distinct from the consciousness of the indi¬
vidual, or whether the automatic states were brought about by external
circumstances. Another question was—Could the subject become cog¬
nisant of suggestions, or of scenes and events, in a way which could
not be explained, and which had been called—erroneously, as he
thought—“ supersensuous perception,” that is to say, by a sense not
yet recognised ? Sixteen or seventeen years ago he was acquainted
with the Mr. Braid who made so many experiments upon hypnotism.
He (Mr. Coffin) was then a young fellow, and did not understand much
that he saw at the time, although the things done by Mr. Braid filled
him with awe, and he considered him to be a powerful man. Time
usually took away the respect in which persons held great individuals,
but in this case time had but heightened the respect, because Mr.
Braid was a man who had reduced facts but little known to something
like order, and had come to the conclusion that the phenomena of trance, i |
and so on, were automatic and self-produced, and did not arise from any
power exerted by the operator. It was quite a gratuitous assumption
that the phenomena were due to magnetism or electricity, and it was
unfortunate that the professors and disciples of certain branches of I J
psychology should continue to use words which conveyed no clear idea '
to scientific men, who used the words “ electricity ” and “ magnetism ”
in their legitimate application. The peculiar condition of the mesmeric
state could be induced when the operator was doing nothing at all, if I ]
the sensitive supposed that the operator was trying to act upon him.
He had obtained no evidence of the action of the operator upon
a subject when there was a large space between the two. The ques¬
tion whether sealed letters could be read, or the soul travel to a dis¬
tance, had no relation to the subject before the meeting. It was diffi¬
cult to get evidence whether a mental command on the part of the
mesmerist would be acted upon by the subject, because it was necessary
to make sure that there was no suspicion in the mind of the subject at
the time that something was being done in that particular way ; there
should also be nothing on the part of the operator to indicate a sug¬
gestion, and it was difficult to be sure that all chances of a suggestion
had been eliminated. When experiments of this kind had been tried,
he had never been able to make sure that there was not some error in
the conditions, but should be very glad to hear from others any
evidence which would determine this point either in the one way or
the other.
Mr. F. J. Eowan asked what was Mr. Coffin’s experience of
hypnotism.
Mr. Coffin replied that it was a self-produced state of insensibility ;
the subject could hear words spoken to him, but, on suggesting that
various things should be done, he had never succeeded in obtaining a
satisfactory response.
PAINLESS SURGICAL OPERATIONS DURING THE MESMERIC TRANCE.
Professor Plumptre said that as to what was called “ electro¬
biology,” his experiences had been confined to two public exhibi¬
tions, in which he knew neither the operator nor the patients,
but in mesmerism he had had a little experience, and he intended
to give names and places, as everybody else ought to do, in
order that the facts which they stated might be verified. (Ap¬
plause.) He himself believed firmly that it was in the power
of the mesmerist, or of the subject, to produce such a state of
insensibility that the most severe operations could then be performed
on the sensitive with no more pain to him than if he were dead. Some
years ago he was at Dawlish, where, at a place called the Warren,
lived a Captain Corneck, of the Eoyal Navy, and he believed that he
lived there still. Captain Corneck had a servant who was- in bad
health, and Mr. Battis Hill Parker, of Exeter, a member of the
Boyal College of Surgeons, was called in to mesmerise her. Mr.
Parker had obtained a great reputation for his powers as a mesmerist,
and some of the results of his work would be found in the Zoist,
edited by the late Dr. Elliotson. Under his treatment the girl recovered
rapidly, and one day Captain Corneck said to several of his friends
that he would give them a proof of the power of mesmerism, for the
girl had been suffering severely from toothache, and when Mr. Parker
came they should have evidence of what could be done by his powers.
After dinner the girl came in, but just before she entered Mr. Parker
said that she would be mesmerically insensible within half-a-minute
after she entered the room ; and so it was, for she sank upon a chair
as if in a dead faint. Mr. Parker then opened her mouth, and he
(Professor Plumptre) stood close by. There was no waving of a hand¬
kerchief before her nose, nor any employment of chloroform, or any¬
thing of that kind. He then saw Mr. Parker take out four double
teeth without the girl twitching a muscle. The gums, of course, bled
much. Some state of sympathy between the operator and the patient
had been established, for when he put water into her mouth, and at the
same time put some into his own mouth, all he did she imitated. She
continued in this condition for a quarter of an _ hour after the opera¬
tion. Mr. Parker then thought that she had had enough of the
tranquillising sleep, and he restored her to consciousness. In this case
there was no loophole for suspicion of trickery, and he but stated
what he had himself witnessed. (Applause.)
VARIOUS STAGES OF THE MESMERIC STATE.
Major S. R. I. Owen said that the question had been raised, whether a
person had ever been put into quite an insensible state, so that he could not
hear anybody; the old idea of the mesmerists was that there were seven
stages of the sleep; he thought that there were several stages, and that
the one just described by Professor Plumptre was the third. In the
sixth or seventh stage the sensitives were in a very exalted state, and
could feel acutely; in the sixth stage the phenomena of clairvoyance
appeared, and in the seventh those of ecstacy. In the latter stage he
would never try any experiments, such as running pins into the patient,
to show that he was insensible to pain, but would partially awaken him
by making upward passes, which would gradually bring him into the
insensible state. It would be wrong to try such experiments while the
sensitive was in the more exalted stages. When in the insensible state
a pin might be run into'him, while a lighted candle was held close to
his. eyes, without any symptom of pain being given. He did not like
such experiments, and was afraid he should be accused of being an
advocate of vivisection. In all the public discussions which had taken
place of late there seemed to be a tendency on the part of the speakers
to class all the phenomena as one, and to suppose that one pet theory
explained them all. He admitted that there w§re many cases which
could be explained as unconscious cerebration, or as the influence of the
will of the operator; hut he had also met with many cases in which it
was clear that neither of these explanations were of any value. All the
facts should not be ascribed to one source, and if Dr. Carpenter had had
but limited experience, his explanations might be right as applied to
the very little he had seen.
THE MESMERIC STATE PRODUCED WITHOUT PREVIOUS SUGGESTION TO THE
SENSITIVE.
Mr. F. J. Rowan said that there was no doubt that it was possible to
mesmerise one part of the body, such as the hand, while all the rest of
the body was in its normal state, and that while this was the case
pins could be run into the mesmerised member without causing pain;
the subject would look on quietly and say that he felt nothing; but
directly the insensibility was removed, the patient became conscious of
the pain. When a limb was mesmerised, he still thought that it was
the result of the action of the person’s own brain, and that such was the
case in many instances of mesmeric sleep; still he thought that the
reduction of the patient to a state of coma afterwards was only possible
by the action of another mind, with or without passes. It was difficult
to test the sensibility of persons and to keep them in absolute ignorance
i that an experiment was being tried with them at the time. He was
travelling some years ago with two ladies, with one of whom he was but
little acquainted; they arrived at an hotel, and half an hour afterwards
they found a number of The Spiritualist on the table. The lady, with
whom he was but little acquainted, had never been mesmerised in her
life, and the conversation which took place about the contents of The
Spiritualist was on Spiritualism and not mesmerism. Shortly after¬
wards, as they were sitting by the fire, he noticed that she was in a state
of reverie, and in the previous conversation she had told him that she
was a somnambulist. He was seated behind her, where she could not
see him, and he thought that he would try to mesmerise her without
her knowledge; he made no passes, but exerted his will. Two or three
minutes after he had commenced, the other lady asked, her a question
which she did not answer, so she roused her and said, “I am afraid you
are not well.” She replied that she had been lookinginto the fire, which
264
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 29, 3876.
seemed to grow smaller and smaller, and then she lost consciousness alto- f)
gether. Then he told her—and neither of them doubted the reality of j i j
the mesmeric influence-T—what he had been doing. That she fell into a j j j
mesmeric state at exactly the same time that he tried the experiment j |
might have been a coincidence, although one that could hardly happen, j i j
It convinced him that mesmeric power could be exercised without any | (j
special knowledge on the part of the individual. If they admitted the j !
principle of thought-reading—as their president had already done— ] j i
they admitted at once the action of one mind upon another; but if they ! (i
did not admit that, the facts still proved the action of their own minds | j i
upon a portion of the nerve system over which they never had any con- j |
trol in the normal state, and the control of that part of the system by j(j
volition was as difficult to understand as the other hypothesis. (Ap- | |
plause.) ’ill
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I., asked whether bringing the sens!- j j
tive out of the state of coma by means of passes which he did not see j j
did not prove that the operator exercised some power. I (j
Mr. Gordon asked, if the patient were not awakened by the operator, j j j
would he ever wake at all. (Laughter.) j ?
Mr. Rowan hoped that he would. He had known a sensitive to sleep | j j
for hours without waking. 11 j
Mr. C. C. Massey said that that evening the power had been adverted j I!
to of putting subjects to sleep upon the spot, but another power was |(
spoken of in mesmeric works, namely, that of making the subject go to ! I
sleep at a future time, by ordering him to do so directly after he had i) j
been put into his first sleep, and before he was awakened. He could I j
not give chapter and verse for the alleged existence of this power, but it 111
was a statement which had been often made, and perhaps some of those I) \
present might be able to give examples. Dr. Carpenter’s idea was, that j !
many ideas must be present in the mind at one time, otherwise there 11 j
was no consciousness. ; ' |||
Mr. William Volckman called attention to Mr. Coffin’s statement at i j j
the preceding meeting, of a sensitive having gone to sleep while the | j
operator did nothing at all but sit behind him reading a newspaper. In in
that case he thought the question to be determined was, the absolute ! i j
passivity of the operator himself, before the assumption was admitted i i
that he exerted no influence upon the patient. 11 i
ME. SERJEANT COX ON VARIOUS PHASES OF MESMERISM. jjj
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that at onetime he tried mesmeric experi- i (j
ments very largely indeed, and he became quite satisfied that the jjj
mesmeric state was a self-induced condition; also, that the operator j) i
exerted no influence at all, except by fixing the mind of the subject at ju
the outset. In the mesmeric sleep the sensitive retained his power over j j j
his limbs, whilst in ordinary sleep he lost control of the limbs. There j j j
were several stages of mesmeric sleep. The first stage was the mere I (i
sleep, in which the patient could remain for fourteen or fifteen hours, i j
It differed from ordinary sleep, for if his eyelids were lifted it would be fjj
found that the eye-balls were turned upwards and inwards, and if an i( j
arm or a leg were raised, and passes made over it, it would remain in a jjj,
cataleptic condition. If the patient were allowed to remain in a mesmeric jjj
sleep it would gradually change into an ordinary sleep, and he usually j (j
awoke all the better for the treatment. In one case, while he was in- jji
experienced, he threw a young man intojj a mesmeric sleep at Exeter, j j i
and could not wake him, so they put him to bed; he was very much ijj
frightened, and thought that his patient might die, but next day was jjj
glad to hear that the young man woke up after many hours sleep greatly jjj
benefited by the rest he had had. Some patients would wake in a few jjj
minutes. In the next stage of the sleep experiments might be tried re- j j
lating to catalepsy at the will of the operator, but that will must always j j j
be indicated by some action. Silent will would not do, nor would words; jjj
he found that he always had to make some motion. To fix an arm one j j j
pass was enough. By passes the whole body might be made so stiff j i
that the heels might be placed on the edge of one chair and the top of jjj
the head on the edge of another, and the patient would thus remain for jjj
half an hour, a thing which was perfectly impossible under normal con- j j j
ditions. They were so stiff that it was possible for three persons to jjj
stand on their bodies while thus resting upon two chairs. These were i j j
experiments which anybody could try at home in his own family, and j j j
the facts were very wonderful. The phenomena he had just described j jj
belonged to the bodily stage of somnambulism, and the next was of a jjj
mental character, in which cases were observed like the well-known jjj
one of the young French priest who would walk in his sleep, and write j j
while in that state; when solid objects were put between his eyes and j j
his pen, he would go on writing, and cross his i’s and t’s, showing that j j;
he had perception, but not with Ms eyes. Some somnambulists jjj
would walk along the roof of a house with safety, therefore some sense j j j
must be guiding them. Wheii the stage; of bodily insensibility was jjj
reached the mental faculties were not very active, and the patient had j I
to be partially awakened by the operator, in order to rouse the mind j j j
to some extent. The mind then became more active than in its jjj
normal state; indeed all the faculties were multiplied ten or a ijj
thousandfold in power, but the patient then entirely lost the j j j
power of setting the) mind in motion of Mmself. The operator jjj
in such cases set up a dream in the mind of the patient, who at ijj
once proceeded to act out what he dreamt in the mesmeric sleep; j)j
and all that was necessary was to give the sensitive the concep- jjj
tion of the subject upon which he was to dream; he then dreams away jji
and fills in all the details himself. If it were suggested to a person in j/j
the mesmeric sleep that he was a preacher, he would dream that he jji
was in a church with a congregation about him; he would preach an j jj
eloquent sermon, and utter sentiments which, at the time, he believed j) j
to be very good. One of these sensitives could be stopped in the middle j j i
of a comic song, and made to sing a hymn, and curiously enough if he jjj
were afterwards made to resume the comic song, he would begin at the jjj
very note at which he left off. On being awakened he remembered ijj
nothing. Mesmer thought that “magnetism” had something to do in
with producing these phenomena, and he employed elaborate apparatus
for the purpose, but a physician at Bath made dummy apparatus of
wood, and found that it produced the same effect, the real cause thereof
being suggestion.
Mr. Rowan remarked that Mr. Serjeant Cox had said that it was
necessary to partially rouse patients to bring them into the mental state.
If they were insensible how was it possible to do so ?
The Chairman: I have always done it by talking to them.
Mr. Rowan: But in a state of insensibility can they hear ? ,
The Chairman: I never knew the hearing to fail; but all the rest of
their senses are in abeyance. They will not hear a sound made by
another person, not even the firing of a pistol, but if that other person
takes the place of the operator the sensitive can hear, although spoken
to but in a wMsper.
Major Owen: Without contact ?
The Chairman: I think not without contact—not without the new
comer taking the hand of the patient.
Mr. Rowan : I think they hear your will and not your voice.
The Chairman: That is a fair question, but a difficult one to decide.
The Chairman continued that phrenological phenomena were presented
in connection with this subject, and he thought it was the touch of the
operator on a particular part of the head of a patient that caused
the results, and not his will or thought. Once he wanted to touch
ii benevolence,” but by some accident he touched “ combativeness,”
and the boy immediately fell upon him with the utmost violence, so
that he felt himself to be in danger from Mm. (Laughter.) He had to
throw him on the ground, where he touched the other organ; all the
violence of the boy then ceased, and he became amicable. (Laughter.)
The proceedings then closed.
The Banner of Light has been working energetically to raise funds
for the Slade Defence, and deserves the thanks of all English
Spiritualists.
The sixth anniversary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism is to be celebrated at their rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, London, on Thursday evening next, 4th January, 1877. The
proceedings will comprise vocal and instrumental music, congratulatory
speeches, conversation, and inspection of specimens of drawings,
writings, photographs, and other articles of interest. Doors open at
7.30, chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely.
Private Theatricals.—An elegant entertainment in connection
with Spiritualism was given at Liverpool a few days ago. The Rivals
was performed by accomplished amateurs, entirely unaided by pro¬
fessionals ; Mrs. Nos worthy brought them together, and the results
did credit to all concerned. The court dresses were splendid (of the
richest description that could be furnished), and, as the music was of
a high order, especially the instrumental part, the members of the
Psychological Society were pleased. Nothing of the kind had ever
before been produced under its auspices. The amateurs were not all
Spiritualists; they were friends of Mrs. Nosworthy, who played to
oblige her, because she had before acted and read to oblige them.
THE SPIDER OF THE PERIOD.
■ The following poem has just been published by Mrs. Weldon:—
A spider sat weaving his web one day,
Watching a glad little fly at play;
She flutter’d and buzz’d here and there in the sun,
And peep’d at the spider who neatly spun.
She thought his long legs were just models of grace,
And feasted her eyes on the charms of his face.
Now the spider, while making believe not to look,
Was reading her heart like the leaves of a book,
And he said to himself, “Not a doubt but that I
Have quite won the heart of this gay little fly ;
I’ll just break the ice; should I prove in the right,
I’ll coax her, and pet her, and—eat her to-night! ”
So he put on his sweetest and softest of smiles
(For spiders, like men, have their arts and their wiles),
And begg’d her when tir’d of her sport in the sun,
To sit by his side till his spinning was done.
She came all too gladly, for poor little flies
Are trustful and lovipg, and therefore unwise.
Ah! how can I picture the glance of his eyes,
The charm of his voice, and the depth of his sighs!
He touchingly spoke of his desolate life ;
No children to cheer him, to love him no wife.
Ah! could he dare hope that in her he might And
A friend, a companion, a kindred in mind.
Quite melted, she tearfully said, “It were sweet
' To sit all the day on the web at your feet.
I know that I’m only a poor silly fly,
But for you I would live, and for you I would die.”
“ Ha ! ha! ” thought the spider, “ It would be absurd
Did I not take her now and at once at her word.
My appetite tells me ’tis time I should sup,’’
So he caught her, and crush’d her, and swallow’d her up.
And he said, “ What a joke it will be when I tell
How I supp’d on the fly who believ’d me too well.”
For here you must know lay the pith of the jest:
He murder’d the creature who lov'd him the best.
And he still spins his web for the flies in the sun,
And he finds that deceiving is very good fun.
And the whole spider world laud him up to the sky,
For he talks like a saint while he sins on the sly.
****# ****#
But I think that some day when his spinping is done,
And he’s wearied of sitting alone in the sun,
He will say with a sigh of regret, “ Would that I
Had not eaten that poor little credulous fly! ”
Dec. 29, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOQ-Y,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
Ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other,]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. ITs. 0d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With Well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging’the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to HUme’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
1&Q6 ds
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR 'OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism, ss. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
tor inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums jalso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. IL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book.
Which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—‘ ‘Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and ’America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles,
and ;Science; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary hook the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should he established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, Is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM;,MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music,' and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. t
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This hook argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. od.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes, in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. 'P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILiTY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Cd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS.' 2b.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through ’the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Cd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY; 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and phiiosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub, at 7s, 64) 4s.;
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
, MUSIC AND ART . ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNEL as
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ABO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice, Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichhorne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s,
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi-,
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—‘Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
Just published, a New Song.
Remembrance (embossed title)., 4s. in a
flat for contralto or baritone, and in C for soprano or
tenor. Words by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To he had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music. 9, Camhridge-terrace, Railton-road, Herne-hill, S.E.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1. Ivy Lane, E.C.
DR. SLADE. .
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
harrister-at-law; Mr. J. A, Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
By Royal- Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may he proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the' Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the hook and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E. 
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
. Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Dec. 29, 1876,
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,” and will, in January,
1^77, become the forced, associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity..
The affair is not individual, but relates to all The struggle
raised before the nation’ is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates', through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materiahsm would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider inno’cent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle ?
Assuredly hot. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
tipport so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability, forIdetidn. ' <
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the'secretary.
The Executive Committee.'
. Alexander Oalder, 1, Hereford-
sqnare, South Kensington, S.W.
rJ. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers. | g|^'Wtld, M.D.;i2, Great Cum-
l* berland-place, W,
I C. C. Massey, i
W. S. Moses,-.M-A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
. SUBSCRIPTIONS. |
£ *s. , d.
The St. Petersburg Committee .v.......... 50 0 0
Miss Douglas   30 ‘ 0 0
Mr.’G. C. Jqad       30 0 0
“Nicodemus!’     25 0.0
Mr. Alexander Calder 21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze      20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn     ' 20 0 0
Countess Caithness h‘.......... 10 10 ’ 0
Mrs. Weldon  ...r.....'?...’.?   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith1......,.   A.;.......’... 10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant.... .10 10-0
Miss H        10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart  10 , 0 0
Mr. A. Tod        10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel  I   10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ”  1 10 0 0
B. P. J t  10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood      10 0 0
Mr. N. E. Dawe   10 0 0
Mr. W. Tebb      10 10 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein     6 0 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones     ,5 0 0
C.O. Massey ......v.;....       5. 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley i 5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman  5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld ,     ....; 5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge  :.....   5 0 0
Mrs.Hennings     S' 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun.-..,.  5 0 0
„ A. Joy ...;h;....    ;... 5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer    - 5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson      5 0 0
Mrs. H.    5 0 0
An American     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge  3 , 3 0.
Mr. J. B. Stones     2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)    2 2 6
Mr. H. Withall    *   2 2 0
Captain James       2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)     2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson     2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead      2,2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival.     , 2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon...,   2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe    X     2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun   2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace,   2 0 0
,, J. C. Ferguson   '.ir.....  2 0 0
“Disciple”.. i   2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins    2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes    2 0 0
Collected by Mr. J. Burns    15 6
Mr. Geo. Stones  1 10
„ J. Mould  i... ......d.... :... 110
Dr. K. Cook.........’.; J....:........ 110
K. G.        110
J.R.W ..*.....:.h..........A...;.X  110
Mrs. Maltby........  1 10
Major Menars    110
Mr. J. C. Ward         110
,, E. D. Rogers     110
„ Morell Theobald 1  110
„ William Theobald...........  110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A.  110
„ H.N.   110
„ J. Andre .......   ; : 110
„ James Brown ....  110
The Misses Withall .....'    1.10
Dr. Baikie.... 110
Anon, per C. C. Massey    110
A.M.W         110
Mr. T. P. Barkas..        1 10
Tucker     10 0
Mrs. S. Parker   10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley       1.0 0
Mr. A. Smedley ....;   10 0
„ F. Smedley     10 0
“ D ” (Clericus)      10 0
Dr. W.M. Buchanan..      10 0
Smaller sums  '.  5 16 0
From America.
The following consist of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the Fund,
of which £264 3s. has already been remitted to England.
dojs.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston         200,00
/Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
dols.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston     |  60.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit).,.. 25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N, T. City......; 5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass     3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City   2,00
Geo. W. Gray   '..J   . 50
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Chas. Case, Washington, D.C.   1,00
D. R. Arnold, Pawtucket, R. L.  1,00
G. Parker 50
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt   5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass 2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O     100,00
b.    i   i,oo
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass.......   - 5,00
w. h. b.    :  3,00
Margaret Jackson, Greensboro’, N.C  , 1,50
Chas. Levy, St. Louis,1 Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham, Mass     2,00
F. L. Crane, Topeka, Kan........  1,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston     3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston    10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester   2,00
E. M. Winslow, Boston     1,00
Stephen Young, Mechanicsville, la !  1,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y    100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass   100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass   100,00
James'Codman, Worcester, Mass   100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  , 100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass.’ .r...:... 5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass ■ 5,00
. j. l. e.          so
Liberal Christian    1,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y   50,00
. C. B. Somes, Groveland, Mass   1,00
A Poor Woman .....I:....'...:.....'....:.'  .50
,P. E. Ulster       , 50
M. A. Dry den, Mansfield, Mass.      1,00
Jeremiah Turner, Warren, R. I j 1,85
Mrs. H. J. Severance, Tunbridge, Vt  1,00
C. M.Burrett, New,Haven, Ct j 2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q   2,00
Augustus Day, Detroit, Mich...'...:.,..'.'.?.;........ 1,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
L. L. Rosecrans, Hainesvllle, N. J     1,00
M. A. Giles     f.-.Ji 2,00
O. Giles   •••• 2,00
Jas. O. Ransom ......     50
A Friend to' the Cause    t2,00
. W. Y; Philadelphia, Pa    25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Mrs. H. E. Beach, New York City ;....... ' 1,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass      20,00
“ Delta,” New Jersey   1,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa I    5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct   3,00
Mrs. Wm. Rhodes, ditto'..........I.'......‘.   50
E. W. S. St. Johns, P. Q......'     50
B. T. Briggs, Fairhaven, Mass |   50,
L. K.Joslin, Providence, R. I,     : 3,00
H. Sherburn, Esperance, N. Y.   50
Friend, South Framingham, Mass....'..:  1,00
Jas.'T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
J. Campbell Kemp, Petersburg, Va  1,00
H. F. Phillips, Providence, R. I..'  1,00
Wm. F. Krebs,. Staunton, Va..  50
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
P. Carpenter, Lancaster, Ohio     85
Mrs; John Squires, Dansville, N. Y....... .’. 85
Jona. Travilla, West Chester, Pa  :. 1,00
Dr. Dodge,'St. Louis, Mb:'...'..    1,00
A. S. Phelps, Cambridge, Mass   1,00
Friend, Mt. Auburn   1,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass....:   2,00
A Tanner, Norwood, ditto       1,00
Dr. M. M. Gardner, Utica, N. Y   1,00
Mrs. R. Bowker, Boston, Mass :...... 1,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa    25,00
H. G. Wyte,‘ Buffalo, N. Y..     - 2,00
Joseph Kinsey...1.     5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke     3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, R. 1    2,00
K. C. Chapman, Taylorsville, N. Y.  1,00
A. Farnsworth, E. Saginaw, Mich  1,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden,Conn.  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2,00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me 3,00
E. D. Hall, Okolona, Miss      50
c. a. s.- Jr r.......... 1,00
N. Huckins    :...: ........V.  1,00
H.K.Moi-rill..       2,00
La Fayette Tyrel, Charlestown, N. Y * 1,00
P. Thompson, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. \..  .50
John D. Tighe, Brighton, Mich.1,00
C. M. S. Lawrence, Mass  1,00
L. P. Boston, Highlands, Mass.1,00
W. D. Holbrook, Waukesha, Wis.    1,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I.   5,00
Dr. G. B. Brooklyn, N. Y      3,00
Wm. Sargent, Newport, Me   1,85
J. N.H., Peacedale, R. I. ............ :.. 25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass. ..:  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn   5,00
Geo. Adams, Franklin, Mass ;  1,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
Chas. H. Starbuck        25
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
E. Crossley      1,00
D. B. St. John, Edmeston, N. Y.    1,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass.     5,00
F. B. Manchester, W. Randolph, Vt  1,00
Rachie Cross     25
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111. .'    2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto    5,00
Chas. H. Edwards, Prospect Plain, N. J  50
Samuel Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
Nellie (a Spirit)       1,00
C. W. Cotton, Portsmouth, Ohio   1,00
David A. Mundy, Rahway, N. J.   2,00
Wm. D. Cydy, Bricksburg, N. J  50
A Friend to the Truth, Vineland, N. J  1,00
D. Higbie, Mungerville, Mich.     50
J. Til Ison, Sandy Hook, Conn.   1,50
A. Rosekrans, Scranton, Pa    1,00
J. B. Armstrong, Ogdensburg, N. Y ;.... 1,00
Mrs. C. B. Marsh, E. Calais, Vt.    1,00
G. Smith, No. Wavne, Me.     1,00
“A Friend of the Banner”    50,00
A Lady Friend...........,1„„,.7. f 1,00
Spiritualists’- Defence Fund continued.
dols.
Jesse H. Butler, Los Angeles, Cal 1,00
J. W. Robins, M.D;,7 Uxbridge, Mass     2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N.Y.    2,00
C. D. Stone, Marblehead, Mass.......  -50
“ A Friend,” Birmingham, Ohio....     1,00
Elijah Gordon, Bangor, Me  1,00
J. B. Angel, Red Bank, N. J .*......  5,00
Mrs. E. A. Briggs, Kingston     75
Mrs. L. P. Whiting, ditto   50
Otis Eastman    ...vT.  25
C. B. Huyghue, St. John, N.B    1,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn   6,85
Mrs. A. S. Holyoke, Mass.*....:......'...’    1,00
Miles Sprague  L    50
Mary M. Lincoln, Westfield, Mass    50
Wm, A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass  5,00
Friend      50
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass 
Mrs. H. Smith, Bqston Highlands, Mass..  
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass   
A. M. Gaffield, ditto :   
Mary McGarr, Pittsburg, Pa 
Mrs. Davis, Watertown, Mass.   
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass 
Sarah W. Stewart, Lowell, Mass    
Mrs. A. M. Stone, Cincineati, Ohio  
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn 
Roger Shagreen   
Hutchins Wright, Waterloo    
S. T. Spaulding, Dunstable, Mass   
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio 
. Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn 
Mrs. A. F. Bennett, Stowe, Vt.     
John Tebbs, Brooklyn, N. Y   
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla 
Geo. Melling, Bladensburg, Md:  
Thos. Lees,* Cleveland, Ohio 
Mrs. Hannah Lees, Cleveland, Ohio    ;...
Jas. Lawrence, ditto     ft,
Gep. Rose, "ditto'  
Esther McKay, ditto   
Nancy M. Tibbols, ditto     i..
Geb.‘ Sykes, ditto.....  
Ohas. Maso”. ditto   
Wm. Rich, ditto  
John Madden, ditto.......   
R. T. Jones, Utica, N. Y... .’ 
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111  
Richard Roberts, Washington, D. C.   
Mrs.’H. H. Handy, Fredonia, N. Y   
B. -L. • Wade, Jefferson, Ohio.    
Mrs, Eliza Eastman; Concord, N. H., 
M. H. W., New Orleans, La.....J.:....' 
C. R. Brooklyn,- N.'Y. 1   
F. H. R., ditto ;.   :... :.  
T. H. B        
Mrs. E. A. P.i .L.fi..:.   :...... 
Chas. W. Spaulding, Norwich, Conn 
Mrs. J. T. G I 
C. G. Brown, Shelbina, Mo.... 
H. J. Brown, ditto  i.Jtj 
J. F. Hamilton,'Berlin, Wis    
E, Man, Litchfield, . Mich 
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbor, Mich 
Dr. P. A. Connelly, Des Moines, la 
E. M. Davis, ditto    
Wm. Skinner, ditto  
Geo. Sly, ditto   
N. E. Mulford, Madison, N. J 
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y I 
Friends, Charlotte, Mich   
David McArthur, Amsterdam, N. Y 
F. Stevenson      
Mrs. Sarah Drake, Bloomington, 111   
“ A. R.,i’Maine  
E. W. Parker  
J. L. Willson, Sugar Loaf, Col 
John Colby, ditto 
Ira Copeland, Enfield, N. H 
Wm; G. Dennison, ditto   
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y 
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn 
Mrs. Mhry Bell, W. Philadelphia, Pa 
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y 
John Ryan, Waterford, N. Y 
J. H. Shedd, Hardwick, Vt... 
An Investigator   ;.. 
Henry G. Post, Orange, N. J 
A Friend to the Cause of Spiritualism  
Sami. N. Stillman, New Brunswick, N. J 
T. T. Baker, Marion, Ohio  
w. M. c..     
C. B. Rogers...   
P. W.  J ;....    
John Robbins  
Dr. Rhodes .'.  
5,00
1,85
2,00
2,00
25
1,00
2,00
< 85
1,00
2,00
1,00
85
85
2,00
2,00
1,00
1,00
3,00
1,00
1.50
3,00
1,00
50
25
1,00
1,00
50
50
1,00
2,00
1,00
50
10,00
1,00
1,00
2,00
50
50
1,00
1,00
50
1,00
1,10
2,00
5,00
2,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
10,00
2.50
1,00
50
50
1,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
1.00
2,00
5,00
85
2,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
1,00
1.50
1,00
1,00
5,00
1,00
50
1,00
1,00
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price1 Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mdtze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Printed for The Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwobd’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
