AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[HEGISTEEED FOE TBANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 139.—(Yol. VI.—No. 17.)
LONDON: APRIL 23, 1875.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXII   ...     193
A Kemarkable Seance with Messrs. B&stian and Taylor. By Captain J.
James, late of the Ninetieth Light Infantry   195
The New Psychological SocietyPresidential Address of Mr. Serjeant
Cox—Speeches by Mr. F. K. Munton, Mr. E. H. Collyer, M.D., Dr. '
Edmunds, Mr. Tagore, Major S. E. I. Owen, Dr. Sexton, and Sir
John Maxwell     19S
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Opening of the Beading-
room and Library    199
The Coming Bazaar ...  200
Levitation of a Materialised Spirit.—The Mediumship of Mr. "Williams.. 201
A Metaphysical Convict    201
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Birmingham—Spiritualism in Ips¬
wich—A Fiasco in Paris—Healing Mediumship—The Sleeping Girl
of Turville—Tests at Materialisation Seances   202
Paragraphs:—Council of the Psychological Society, 199; The Spiritual
Magazine, 199; Experiments in Mesmerism, 200; Letter from Mr.
Morse, 204; The National Association Eeading-room, 204; Eeligious
Opinions of Africans, 204; Testimonial to Mr. John Collier  204
Answers to Correspondents    204
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.E.I., F.E.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. O. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. E Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Son. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are :—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer.facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Eule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Booms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospeclus, Eules, Circle Eegulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
A SPECIAL SEANCE will be held at the Rooms of the
Dalston Association on Friday, the 30th inst., for which occasion
Mr. Charles E. Williams, the well known physical medium has been
engaged. Admission is to be by tickets, members Is. 6d., and non-mem¬
bers (or introduction by a member) 2s. 6d. each; which can be obtained on
application to the Hon. Secretary, at the rooms of the Association, 74,
Navariuo-road, Dalston, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and ail inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Eesident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38. Great Buss ell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Eules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
will hold their
FOURTH CONVERSAZIONE,
On Wednesday, the 5th May, 1875, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbui'y, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected ■with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d.
To be obtained in advance of the resident secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the, Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. 'We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
' Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FEAN CIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGrER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Eue de la Cathddrale, Likge
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
1 fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Eue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLEES AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
9 SELLEE, STATLONEB AND PUBLISHES, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London-Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals,'&c,,
London. A genc.iea accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 23, 1875
«*•
11
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Seei'etary.—'ilLT. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest*
■ R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jonos, J. Haslam, E. G-.
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
S.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC¬
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr, Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Feter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Eas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
mo THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
A to William Howitt’s Letter on the Beitish National Association
of Spiritualists. By Aloernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-piace, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre-
•ents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2gd. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Hey wood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
The fire re-insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made, and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that :—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
Lo.idon, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.C., and Huddersfield. Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.O.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.O.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official doeuments,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working :—
No.
Companies,
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
British   
United States..
Continental ..
£
5,404,825
5,837,811
5,170,768
£
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may he fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the, business position of the undermentioned Re-Insuranck Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17J
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Alliance of Vienna..
Security 
Swiss j  
Vienna   
Magdeburg   
Pan non iii  
Frankfurter 
Aachen  
Cologne 
Premium
Income.
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,672
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
26|
16!
17
20
9
83|
6
17J
33!
20
20
14
26!
13
41 i
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Premotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
of the Corporation.
cJAj
e]ws
% ^cxrrb -$[ ifp xrf lip mb
VOLUME £IX. JMUjVlBER SEVENTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 23rd, 1876,
Cjre S^inlwalisf
Established in 1869.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXII.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
eoimt as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boauced terms for extended periods.
?%e Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Ely ton, 11, Ave Maria Dane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions;—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or. irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher^ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 883, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 176, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandrifige.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
EpEHALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
The argument was resumed consecutively from the last
instalment:—
This being the duty of man in such sort as we are
now able to put it before you, we have now to deal
with the results of the discharge of that duty, or its
neglect. He who fulfils it according to his ability,
with honesty and sincerity of purpose, and with a single
desire to discharge it aright, earns his legitimate reward
in happiness and progress. We say progress; because
man is apt to lose sight of this enduring fact, that in
progress man’s spirit finds its truest happiness. Content
is, in the pure soul, only retrospective. It cannot rest
in that which is past; at best it views the achievements
of the bygone days only as incentives to further progress.
Its attitude to the past is one of content, to the future
of hope and expectation of further development. That
soul which shall slumber in satisfaction, and fancy that
it has achieved its goal is deluded, and in peril of
retrogression. The true attitude of the spirit is one of
striving earnestly in the hope of reaching a higher
position than that which it has attained. In perpetually
progressing it finds its truest happiness. There is no
finality; none, none, none!
And this applies not only to the fragment of existence
which ye call life, but to the totality of being. Yea;
even the deeds done in the body have their issue in the
life disembodied. Their outcome is not bounded by the
barrier which ye call death. Ear otherwise; for the
condition of the spirit at its inception of its real life is
determined by the outcome of its bodily acts. The
spirit which has been slothful or impure gravitates
necessarily to its congenial sphere, and commences
there a period of probation which has for its object the
purification of the spirit from the accumulated habits of
its earth-life; the remedying in remorse and shame of
the evil done; and the gradual raising of itself to
a higher state to which each process of purification has
been a step. This is the punishment of transgression,
not an arbitrary doom inflicted to all eternity by an
angry God, but the inevitable doom of remorse and
repentance and retribution, which results invariably
* In Jfte Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gtentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
theiridentity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from bis own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings" printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily emitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
j have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand-
j writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
’ and the individuality remains throughout the same.—En.
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
from conscious sin. This is the lash of punishment,
hut it is not laid on by a vengeful Deity; a loving
father leads his child to see and remedy his fault.
Similarly, reward is no sensuous ease in a heaven of
eternal rest; no fabled psalm-singing around the great
white throne, whereon sits the God, no listless, dreamy
idleness, cheaply gained by cries for pity, or by fancied
f aith; none of these, but the consciousness of duty done,
of progress made, and capacity for progress increased ;
of love to God and man fostered, and the jewel of truth
and honesty preserved. This is the spirit’s reward, and
it must be gained before it can be enjoyed. It comes
as the rest after toil, as the food to the hungry, as the
draught to the parched, as the pulsation of delight when
the wanderer sights his home. But it is only the toil-
worn, the travel-stained, the hungry, the parched
traveller who can enter into the full zest. And it is
not with us the reward of indolent, sensuous content.
It is the gratification which has been earned, and which
is but an additional spur to future progress.
In all this you will see that we have dealt with man
as a living intelligence, alone in his responsibilities, and
alone in his struggles. We have not thought it neces¬
sary here to touch upon the aid ministered by guardian
spirits, nor upon the impulses and impressions which
flow in upon the receptive soul. We are concerned
now with that phase of man’s existence which is open
to your inspection, and which is manifested to your
eye. Neither have we made any mention of a bound¬
less store of merit laid up for him by the death of the
sinless Son of God, or of the Co-equal Partner of the
Throne of Deity—a store on which he may draw at will
to make up for his own shortcomings. We have not
spoken of such an atonement of magical potency and
universal application in answer to a cry of faith. Nor
have we told you that a death-bed repentance has power
to obtain for man—base, evil, grovelling animal as he
may be—an entrance into the very society of God and
the blessed ones, by the charm of imputed righteousness
bought by vicarious suffering. We have not pointed to
any such conception of a debased and foolish imagina¬
tion. Man has helps, powerful, near, always available.
But he has no reserve fund of merit on which he can
draw at large at the close of a lifetime of debauchery,
sensuality, and crime, when he has drunk to the very
dregs the cup of physical enjoyment, and so go straight
to the holy of holies and the sanctuary of God. He has
no vicarious sacrifice on whom he can call to suffer in
his stead when his coward heart is wrung with fear at
the prospect of dissolution, and his base spirit trembles
at the prospect which remorse conjures up. Not for
such base uses would any of the messengers come; not
to such would the ministers bring consolation. They
would let the coward feel his danger, if perchance he
may see and repent him of his sin. They would let the
lash be laid on, knowing that so only can the hard
heart be made to feel. Yet for such, your teachers tell
you, the Son of God came down, and died ! Such are
the choicest recipients of mercy! the most appropriate
subjects for divine compassion !
No such fable finds a place in our knowledge. We
know of no store of merit save that which man lays
up for himself by slow and laborious processes. We
know of no entrance to the spheres of bliss save by the
path which the blessed themselves have trod; no magi¬
cal incantation by which the sinner may be transformed
into the saint, and the hardened reprobate, the debased
sensualist, thepurely physical animalbecomespiritualised,
April 23, 1875.
refined, glorified, and fitted for what you call heaven.
Far from us such blasphemous imaginations.
And while man feigns for himself such ignorant and
impossible fancies, he neglects or ignores those helps
and protections which encircle him all around. We
have no power, indeed, to work out for man the salva¬
tion which he must work out for himself; but we are
able to aid, to comfort, and to support. Appointed by
a loving God to minister, each in our several spheres,
to those who need it, we find our power curtailed, and
our efforts mocked at by those who have become too
gross to recognise spirit-power, and too earthy to aspire
to spiritual things. These helps man has ever round
about him; helps which he may draw to himself by the
mighty engine of prayer, and knit to him by frequent
communion with them.
Ah! ye little know what power ye neglect when ye
omit to foster, by perpetual prayer, communion with
the spirits, holy, pure, and good, who are ready to
stand by and assist you. Praise, which attunes the
soul to God, and prayer, which moves the spirit agencies
—these are engines ever ready to man’s service. And
yet he passes them idly by, and makes his hopes of
future bliss rest on a faith, on a creed, on an assent, on
a vicarious store of merit, on any shadowy, baseless
figment rather than on fact.
We attach little importance to individual belief, that
is altered soon enough by extended knowledge. The
creed which has been fought over with angry vehe¬
mence during the years of an earth lifetime is surren¬
dered by the enfranchised spirit without a murmur.
The fancies of a lifetime on earth are dissipated like a
cloud by the sunlight of the spheres. We care little
for a creed, so it be honestly held and humbly professed;
but we care much for acts. We ask not what has such
an one believed, but what has he done ? For we know
that by deeds, habits, tempers, characters are formed,
and the condition of spirit is decided. Those characters
and habits, too, we know are only to be changed after
long and laborious processes; and so it is to acts rather
than words, to deeds rather than professions, that we
look.
The religion which we teach is one of acts and habits,
not of words and fitful faith. We teach religion of
body and religion of soul; a religion pure, progressive,
and true; one that aims at no finality, but leads its
votary higher and higher through the ages, until the
'dross of earth is purged away, the spiritual nature is
refined and sublimated, and the perfected spirit—
perfected through suffering, and toil and experience—
is presented in glorified purity before the very footstool
of its God. In this religion you will find no place for
sloth and carelessness. The note of spirit teaching is
earnestness and zeal. In it you will find no shirking of
the consequences of acts. Such shirking is impossible.
Sin carries with it its own punishment. Nor will you
find a convenient substitute on whose shoulders you
may bind the burdens which you have prepared. Your
own back must bear them, and your own spirit groan
under their weight. Neither will you find encourage¬
ment to live a life of animal sensuality and brutish
selfishness, in the hope that an orthodox belief will hide
your debased life, and that faith will throw a veil over
impurity. You will find the creed taught by us is
that acts and habits are of more moment than creeds and
faith; and you will discover that that flimsy veil is
rent aside with stern hand, leaving the foul life laid
bare, and the poor spirit naked and open to the eye of
April 23, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
all who gaze upon it. Nor will you find any hope
that after all you may get a cheap reprieve—that God
is merciful, and will not he severe to mark your sins.
Those human imaginings pale in the light of truth.
You will gain mercy when you have deserved it; or
rather repentance and amendment, purity and sincerity,
truth and progress will bring their own reward. You
will not then require either mercy or pity.
This is the religion of body and spirit which we
proclaim. It is of God, and the days draw nigh when
man shall know it. + Imperator.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MESSRS. BASTIAN
4 AND TAYLOR.
BY CAPTAIN J. JAMES, LATE pE THE NINETIETH EIGHT
INFANTRY.
I have been requested to fully report in your paper,
the results of a most interesting and important seance,
held at the rooms of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, on the
evening of Tuesday, the 13th April.
The great importance of this seance consists in the
fact that a spirit form was distinctly seen to issue from
the cabinet, leading the entranced medium by the
hand, and to advance some distance from the curtain, in
the presence of thirteen spectators.
I must preface my account by stating that for some
time past a private seance has been held every Tuesday
evening at No. 2, Yernon-place, Bloomsbury, the circle
consisting of Mr. Ronalds and seven or eight other in¬
vestigators. After a few sittings, it was determined by
the members of the circle, that a certain number of
strangers should be invited to join the party, the only
condition being, that the names of those proposed to be
invited should be approved by the principal controlling
spirit, “ George.”
On the occasion in question I happened to be one of
the strangers invited, and from my position at the end
of the front row of spectators—my neighbour being
Mr. Taylor the clairvoyant—I was most conveniently
situated for observing what took place.
As usual on these occasions, proceedings commenced
with the appointment of a committee, for the purpose of
examining the small bedroom, forming the cabinet.
After most scrupulously searching every nook and
corner of the room, the committee fastened the two
doors and window, gumming pieces of paper to the
doors and the wood-work over them, and also across
the shutters, making pencil marks on the papers and
continuing them on to the wood-wOrk. At the con¬
clusion of the seance these papers were found to be
exactly as they had been placed by the committee,
the pencil marks on paper and wood perfectly corre¬
sponding.
On this occasion, for very evident reasons, the
medium, Mr. Bastian, was not bound, but merely left
in his chair.
The gas was then lowered, so that there was only a
dim light, but quite sufficient for the company to see
the forms, and even to distinguish the features of most
of the spirits, as they confidently approached, and even
touched several members of the circle.
The company, seated in two rows opposite to and
about eight feet distant from the cabinet, commenced
the seance by singing. In the' course of a few minutes
George requested silence, which being obtained, he an¬
nounced that the spirit May was desirous of showing
herself and the medium at the same time. :
The company remained anxiously waiting for the
promised appearances for some minutes, until at length
a female form, clad in white, was seen to open the cur¬
tain and to appear and disappear several times, until at
length she gathered sufficient power to advance about
three feet into the room, leading Mr. Bastian by the
hand. The half-suppressed but earnest exclamations of
the spectators, showed unmistakably their astonishment
as well as their intense gratification at this crowning
proof of the truth of Spiritualism.
Both Mr. Bastian and the spirit May were distinctly
seen, the latter being nearly a head shorter than her
medium ; but from the distance where I was seated I
could not distinguish the features of the spirit. It
may here be remarked that all the spirits who appeared
at this seance were clothed in white gowns, and Mr.
Bastian, the medium, was dressed in black.
May was greeted with many affectionate epithets,
with which she seemed much pleased, and bowed
several times to the company in a most graceful
manner, then leading the medium back to the cabinet, -
she knelt down in the attitude of prayer, and by de¬
grees melted away, and finally disappeared.
Before proceeding with my account of the remaining
portion of the seance, I may perhaps be allowed to
observe that in my opinion the hypothesis of the spirit
always being the double of the medium was, in this
case, as it has been in many others, completely dis¬
proved.
A very short time after the departure of May, the
curtain was parted, and the tall and robust figure of
Mrs. Ronald’s brother appeared, and after a few efforts
advanced into the room, approached Mr. Ronald and
touched his and Mrs. Woodforde’s hands.
The spirit then retired, apparently to regain force,
and afterwards advanced to where I was seated, placed
his hand upon my head, then taking my right hand, he
passed it down from his mouth over his long and silky
beard.
I distinctly saw his face, the high broad forehead
and dark complexion, and could observe a marked
family likeness between him and his brother.
This spirit then sat down at a table and wrote a
letter (which I afterwards heard covered three sides of
a sheet of paper) in a remarkably short space of time.
The next spirit who appeared was the wife of Mr.
Cottrell, who was present. She advanced and retired
several times, until at length, having gained sufficient
strength, she stepped over to her husband and placed
her hand upon his head. Mr. Cottrell stated that he
distinctly saw the features of the spirit, and was quite
certain that it was his wife.
The spirit of an elderly man, known in the spirit
world as the “ white warrior,” next issued from the
cabinet; he had a very straight nose and a grey beard,
advanced close up to a lady, and was recognised by her
as her husband.
The last spirit who appeared was the brother of
Colonel S., who sat very near me. This was the spirit
of a young man, about thirty years of age; he had a
very short and rather dark beard, pale complexion, and
small features, and wore a “ Glengarry ” bonnet, on
which was a silver buckle or plate bearing—I believe
—the family crest. This spirit advanced without hesita¬
tion to Colonel S., and held out his hand; afterwards,
crossing to the other end of the room, he took a large
nosegay off the table, and, on returning, placed it in
his brother’s hand; finally, as he retreated to the
196
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 23, 1875,
cabinet, taking off his bonnet and waving it in adieu
to the company.
Greorge then spoke through the trumpet, thanking
the company for their patience and attendance, and
wished us all “ Good-night.”
The following are the names of the witnesses who
were present at this seance—Mrs. Woodforde, Mrs.
Wilks, Miss Vigoureux, and Mrs. and Miss Loder,
Colonel S. and friend, Mr. Potts, Mr. Lippencot,Jdr.
Ronalds, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Cottrell, and myself.
1, Jersey Villas, Tottenham, April 15,1875.
THE HEW PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Wednesday night, last week, the inaugural meeting of
the New Psychologioal Society of Great Britain, was held in
the rooms of the Architectural Society, Conduit-street, Regent-
street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox.
There was an overflowing attendance, every inch of sitting
and standing room being occupied, and numbers of persons
unable to obtain admittance. Among the listeners present
were, Sir John Maxwell, General Brewster, Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, the Hon. Mrs. Strong, the Rev. W. Stainton Moses,
M.A., Mr. and Mrs. W. Tebb, Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe, Dr. and
Mrs. Edmunds, Mr. Fredk. Collingwood (secretary to the
Anthropological Institute), Mr. Moncure D. Conway, Mr.
Crisp, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Alexander Calder, Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.L, Major S. R. I. Owen, F.L.S., Mr. Percival,
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A,., Mr. F. K. Munton, Mr. A. L.
Lewis, Dr., Mrs. and Miss Sexton, and Mr. and Mrs. George
Childs.
Mr. Serjeant Cox then delivered his opening address, in the
course of which he said that physiology deals with the
physical structure of man, but psychology deals with the
potencies whence proceed the forces by which the molecules
composing the body are governed, and the existence of these
potencies could be demonstrated, by those who had given
attention to the subject, to be not less real than matter, and
not less capable of becoming known. Psychology in, plain
English, was “ the science of the soul.” He considered
psychology and materialism to be necessary to each other.
Electricity and magnetism could not be seen or weighed, their
properties had to be deduced from their-effects upon matter,
yet they were none the less real because they could be known
only in this way ; and his position was that by precisely the
same processes, the nature of psychological forces could be
ascertained; the province of psychology was to investigate the
nature of all the forces governing the mechanism of man.
Students of psychology had to fear theologians on the one
hand, and materialists on the other, since the latter denied
the existence of the soul except as a function of matter, and
the former by exhortations to faith, as in some recent
instances, would have men return to the mental state of pre-
scientific ages. The Society would have to study many
abnormal phenomena. It was not in the ordinary operations
of nature that her secrets were most disclosed, but when some
of the wheels were out of gear, and so presented as to give in¬
formation as to the nature of the mechanism. He also said—
“Is it, as the materialists assert, that man is nothing more
than the material structure perceptible to our senses ? that
life is the product of a certain combination and arrangement
of molecules in the special manner we call organic ? Is it that
mind—intelligence^—is but an action of that material structure,
and consciousness merely a state of that organism? Is it that,
when this combination of molecules is dissolved, life ends, and
with life the intelligence and the consciousness that were also
the product of that combination ? Or is it that this thing that
is conscious is something other than the material organism of
which it is conscious ? Is the force that moves that complex
mechanism self-generated ? Is the intelligence that directs it
self-produced? Or is there not something in our material
structure that is non-material—something that is in fact our¬
selves, and of which the body is merely the material mechanism
through which that non-material something, from the very
condition of its being, can alone hold communication with the
material world.
“ This is the first question, surely, of overwhelming interest
to every human being, that presents itself to the psychologist.
For a scientific answer to it, he must consult—what ? Not his
inner consciousness, not his hopes and desires, not creeds, not
dogmas, not opinions, not conjectures, but facts. He must do
as did the discoverers of electricity and magnetism, as Faraday
did, as Tyndall is doing; he must.note the changes in the
matter his senses can perceive, and seek in the phenomena they
exhibit for the presence of a force, if auy such there be, that
his senses are unable to perceive. If he finds the presence of
such a force acting upon molecular structure, whether organic
or inorganic, by noting with strict tests and repeated experi¬
ments the action of that force, he will be enabled to learn much
of its nature and qualities, and especially if it be a blind force
or an intelligent force.
“ If it be a blind force, like magnetism, or any of the
physical forces, he will be compelled to the conclusion that,
like them, it belongs to nature generally, and not especially to
the individual.
“ But if he should find, as perhaps he will, that this force
is an intelligent force—that is to say, that it has a will and
knowledge, and cannot be commanded,—to what conclusion
will he then come ?
“Inevitably that the intelligent motive force proceeds from
something as imperceptible to the senses of the observer as is
magnetism or electricity. But intelligence can only proceed
from some being that is intelligent—some personality, some
entity—call it what you please,—and if this is found to be
associated with the individual man, then the inevitable con¬
clusion will be that man has in him, or associated with him,
some being other than his material structure.
“ It is to that intelligent entity, whatever it be, and if it be
(which is the problem to be solved), that the name of soul or
spirit has been given, but to which I prefer to give the name
of psyche, as more accurate, because the former have been so
employed that they both convey to the popular mind a con¬
ception somewhat different from that which is designed when
the term is read in a scientific sense.
“ If the fact of the existence of a psyche be demonstrated
scientifically, there will follow the scarcely less interesting
questions—whence it is? what it is? what is its structure, its
shape? what are its faculties? what has been its past, if it has
had a past? what will be its future, if a future be in store
for it ?
“ As I have said, the first business is to ascertain precisely
what are the facts, and then, by reflection and discussion, to
deduce from those facts the reasonable conclusions to which
they point.
“But facts to be used as the basis of science are not to be
hastily accepted. Science has a right to demand that their
verity shall be established by evidence which, if not always
amounting to positive demonstration, shall be such proof as
the unbiassed judgment may reasonably accept. But in all
cases the evidence must be the best evidence procurable that
the nature of the case will permit. It is an inflexible rule of
our courts of law that the best evidence only shall be accepted,
and that secondary evidence shall not be received when
primary evidence can be had. It is a rule of reason and of
common sense. In scientific investigation it is equally neces¬
sary to be observed, and I trust that by this Society no relaxa¬
tion of it will be permitted. Necessarily it will be called upon
to deal with many reports of alleged phenomena of rare
occurrence and transcending common experience. It is scarcely
necessary to remind the members that a higher degree of proof
should be required in proportion to the strangeness of the phe¬
nomenon, and that strictest scrutiny must be made into the
minutest details before the Society will be justified in placing
it among its records of psychological facts. The sufficiency of
the tests must be examined—the accuracy of the observations
must be tried—and, above all, it must be ascertained if there
were not other more conclusive tests that might have been
applied—tests that would have exhibited the truth or the error
beyond dispute—and the question must always be put—If
these were not tried, why not ?
“ Having thus a firm basis of fact upon which to proceed,
discussions upon causes will properly follow, and these will
involve questions of supreme importance, any one of which
should suffice to attract to this Society every man who gives
any thought to what he was, what he is, what he will be.
Whence did I come ? Where am I ? Whither shall I go ?
We stand between two Eternities—the Eternity of the Past
and the Eternity of the Future. We have emerged from the
one, and we are travelling into the other. Did we exist in that
past Eternity ? I£ so, where and how ? What shall we be in
the Eternity to come ? What is soul ? What is matter ? Is
matter merely the incrustation of spirit—-atomic structure
aggregated into molecular structure on the surface, as it were,
and passing continually from one to the other—as the atmo¬
sphere becomes visible in the form of a cloud when it comes in
April 23, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
197
contact with a colder body ? Or is it that the vast interspaces
between the worlds, those regions void to our senses, in which
those countless worlds are but as grains of dust, are really
thronged with life—possibly with intelligent life—which, not
being of molecular structure, is imperceptible to our very
limited material senses ? Can it be that the spacious firma¬
ment on high, and even our atmosphere, is tenanted by races
of beings whom we cannot perceive with any sense, perhaps
not even our equals in intelligence, by whom some of the acts
are done which undoubtedly are performed by no corporeal
hands ? Or is it, as some contend, that the agents are the
disembodied spirits of men and women like ourselves, who
have passed away from mortal life, but not from mortal inte¬
rests and regards ? Is there for us another existence when
this has closed ? Where ? In what conditions ? Are we to
preserve our individuality ? If so, have we lived in the past ?
How ? Where ? When the mechanism that has served it falls
to ruin, does the disembodied soul revive the recollection of all
past existence, or, if more than one, of its past lives ? These
are a few of the profoundly interesting questions that present
themselves in this single branch of psychology.
“ But I might occupy another hour in a mere enumeration
of the various questions that are offered to the view even by
so hasty a glance as this of necessity must be over the province
of psychology. I have stated only some of the foremost of
them, but enough, I hope, to satisfy the most sceptical that
there is a vast and as yet almost unexplored realm of science
open to such a society as this. To reap the full harvest of in¬
vestigation there cannot be too many explorers, and we invite
all who take an interest in these questions to come and join us
in the search.
“ The process by which we propose to conduct the explora¬
tion of this strange country will be, first, by the collection of
facts, and secondly, by discussion upon their causes and con¬
sequences. Our primary endeavour will be to secure authen¬
ticated reports of all psychological phenomena, and to subject
whatever is presented to our notice to the severest scrutiny, so
to ascertain, if possible, what claim it has to be received and
registered as a fact. We hope that, such being our avowed
purpose, no person, however great his authority, will take
offence if we subject him to the most severe cross-examination
upon any asserted observations, seeing that we have • no other
desire nor design than to discover the very truth. When im¬
portant occasions demand, we shall appoint committees of
inquiry, to examine, and test, and report [results. But as to
opinions, and speculations based upon the facts, we shall
receive them from all quarters and on any side of any question,
if only they be temperately advanced.
“ Should the growth of the Society in numbers permit, we
contemplate the publication, not of a mass of essays, but of a
periodical gathering of psychological facts collected from all
parts of the world, being first duly authenticated, to be nar¬
rated without note or comment, so that science may possess
what has long been wanted, a storehouse of facts to which
psychologists everywhere may refer for laying the foundation
of any branch of their science, instead of indulging in the
fascinating amusement of conjecture and surmise which
hitherto has been the almost unavoidable practice, owing to
the absence of fany reliable work in which the collected
authenticated facts were to be found. When permitted, the
names of the reporting authorities will be given; when this is
objected to, the Society will ^investigate the authority, and
guarantee that the facts have been duly authenticated to
itself. Thus, limited strictly to the recording of phenomena,
and wasting no space on mere disquisition, there can be no
doubt that this publication, when the funds of the Society shall
permit the enterprise, will be one of the most interesting and
instructive, as well as most remarkable works that ever issued
from the press.
“That its researches may have the largest possible range,
the * Psychological Society of Great Britain ’ will welcome as
honorary and corresponding members the psychologists of all
other countries, who will be invited to send reports of
psychological phenomena coming within their own observa¬
tion, and to enrich its discussions with papers on themes
properly within the province of the Society.
“ Regulations will be framed for the ordering of the meet¬
ings, limiting the length alike of papers and speeches. This is
found to be a necessary rule in all societies where discussion is
desired. It will be especially requisite in this, where the
subjects to be discussed are of such transcendent and universal
interest, and on which almost every member will have formed
some opinion of his own.
“ The Gouncil have resolved carefully to limit expenses to
means, and from a small beginning they hope and expect that
the Society will grow to greatness. With a view to economy at
the outset, the meetings will be held at the residences of some
of the members who have offered the use of their drawing¬
rooms for the purpose. But so soon as its numbers justify
the cost, public rooms will be hired for the general meetings.
Ultimately we hope to possess a local habitation, to collect a
psychological library, to open a reading-room, and have a paid
officer to conduct our business.
“ The subscriptions now paid will extend through the current
year. Of necessity the first officers of the infant Society have
been self-appointed, but it must be understood that they hold
office only provisionally, until the commencement of thb
second session in November, when the election of the entire
body, including the president, will be relegated to the members.
“In conclusion, let me express a hope that the press will
regularly notice the proceedings of this as of the other
societies. The members must not be disappointed if the
columns of certain journals who affect to lead literature and
science should be closed against them for some time to come.
Truth must still be content to fight its way by its own force, as
always it has done before. It is often easier to gag an oppo¬
nent than to answer him.
“ But we have always this assurance—that we propose to
build our science of psychology on the firm foundation of fact.
Theories may be exploded by argument, but no argument will
answer a fact. Deductions from facts may be disputed, and
are often disputable, but the fact remains as before. No
amount of logical contention that it cannot be changes for an
instant the position of the assertion that it is. Facts can be
refuted only by investigation, by experiment, and by positive
proof that their supposed existence is a dream or a delusion.
No power on earth can destroy a fact. No force of king, or
populace—no denunciation of dogmatists, scientific or sacer¬
dotal—no reasoning a priori, however ingenious—no sneer nor
jeer of conceited ignorance, nor jokes of jack-puddings, can
extinguish a fact. To all such impotent endeavours Science
will still return the same response with which the astronomer
of old accompanied the forced recantation of his scientific
heresy of the revolution of the earth, ‘ But it moves never¬
theless 1 ’ ”
Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary secretary, said that he
could have wished that some independent member of the So¬
ciety had risen to address the meeting first. It required some
courage, even under the auspices of Mr. Serjeant Cox, to ad¬
dress a public meeting upon the main subject-matter of the
Psychological Society. For a long time past a large number
of persons, certainly thousands, or it might be millions, had
taken considerable interest in the phenomena of what was
called Spiritualism, and it required courage to stand in the
front of an audience like that to discuss such a subject, of
which the vast majority of the public either knew nothing or
would not inquire. In the early stages of the development of
important truths, the new facts were usually subjected to
ridicule, and assuming the phenomena of so-called Spiritualism
to be facts, they had not been fairly treated by the public ; at
the same time, it should be remembered that they might be
facts without being attributable to spirits, but on this point he
would express no opinion, either one way or the other, for he
had no bias, and he hoped that such would be the state of
mind of all who joined the Society for the purpose of investi¬
gating. On this subject there was more obstinate prejudice
than had been exhibited against any subject that had been in¬
troduced for more than a century. When a great engineer
once told a committee of the House of Commons that it was
possible for trains drawn by steam-engines to run upon rails
at a speed of twenty miles an hour, his assertion was received
with roars of laughter; still, he was treated better than those
who dealt with the facts of Spiritualism. The public say in
effect even to their dearest friends—“ I have believed every¬
thing you have told me for many years; but when you state
you have seen such things as these, you are either a fool or a
knave.” (Laughter.) There were numbers of men in London
who were believed by their friends upon any other subject,but
not upon this one, and that was unfair. The object of the
Psychological Society was not to approach the subject with
any foregone conclusion about it all; but the position it took
was that sufficient evidence had been brought before those
who formed the Society to show that there was a something
to investigate which was unmistakable, but the cause
of which was a matter of dispute, therefore it was desirable
that in the light of day a Society should be .formed
prepared to receive statements relating to the phenomena
with a view to thoroughly testing them, and to subject all
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 23, 1875.
witnesses to the most rigid cross-examination. After thus
accumulating proved facts, the question would arise to what
cause the facts could be attributed. How had the formation
of the Society been brought about'? Twenty or thirty years
ago public attention was first drawn to the phenomena of
Spiritualism, and since then two classes of persons had sprung
up and brought about results which he deplored. One of
these classes was extremely credulous, and would believe any¬
thing whatever, without inquiry and without examination, no
matter by whom stated. Such people formed a very large
class among the general populace; on the other hand there
were numbers of men and women who were equally incredulous,
who would believe nothing, whatever the evidence, and who,
if they saw that audience carried in the twinkling of an eye
into Regent-street, would go home and say “ It’s a trick.”
(Laughter.) He asserted then that both these bodies had
brought about a condition of things which was to be deplored.
The Psychological Society was prepared to stand between
these two classes, and to say “ I will believe nothing until it
is proved, but when it is proved, I will not disbelieve it because
I never heard of it before. ” (Applause.) Whether the Society
succeeded in proving the phenomena to be due to the action
of spirits, or to something else, or to imposture, it would
equally have done good service to the community, so he asked
the listeners to aid them by enrolling themselves as members.
(Applause.)
Mr. Robert H. Collyer,M.D., said that he came to that meet¬
ing unprepared to hear so dispassionate a presidential address
upon a subject which was enveloped in myth, because of the
action of the incompetent persons who had been dealing with
it. He had had many years’ experience in the phenomena of
Spiritualism; he had given much time to the subject in
America; he had been made the victim of imposture without
becoming discouraged in [the task of sifting truth from error,
the result being that he was a firm believer in the facts of
Spiritualism, but not in Spiritualism itself. He believed in
facts as faithfully as he believed in his own existence. The
world lacked an institution like that. He was experienced in
microscopic physiology, and he was astonished at the vast mass
of intellectual men, some of them old fellow-students of his,
like Dr. Carpenter, who pretended to know so much about
cerebral physiology, whose intellect was worthy of all respect,
but whose conclusions were unreliable. He hoped the Psycho¬
logical Society would be a great success. What could be more
terrific than the phenomena of brain ? They had played a
wonderful part in the affairs of men in past ages; in the
temples of the Egyptians the facts were known, but not the
philosophy of their origin. Speculations then rife had been
handed down to succeeding generations, and we in England
were the children of Egyptian thought. The mysterious
practices in the temples of Egypt, would be perfectly explained
if the Society performed its duties upon philosophical principles.
(Applause.)
Dr. Edmonds said he admired the address he had heard
delivered that evening. His attention had been called to the
matter somewhat largely, and he had strong faith that if the
plan sketched out that evening, of investigating facts only, and
keeping the Society purely and simply within the lines
they had laid down, and of doing nothing which would
repel thoughtful men who did not wish their names
mixed up with superstition—he had strong faith that
many curious facts would be developed, and that great
public service would be done. There was one point in the
address upon which he wished for more explanation, namely,
what did Serjeant Cox mean by “ a fact” ? During eighteen
months he had given much of his time on the Dialectical
Society to investigating the so-called facts, and he must say,
with all respect to those who thought differently from himself,
that the more he looked into the matter the more did the
facts disappear. (Laughter.) He was said to introduce some
diabolical influence which chased away the facts. (Laughter.)
There were in the world more false facts than false theories,
and in the course of the investigation of which he had spoken,
one fact had impressed him very greatly indeed, namely, that
a large number of persons whose intelligence was far above
the average, whose veracity was beyond question, and whose
motives were faultless, whose word he would take upon every
subject but that (because he had not seen the facts, and
because the alleged facts would upset and controvert all those
things upon which the mind had its only anchorage),—it was
most surprising to those who could not accept the facts, much
less the interpretation the public would put upon them, that
such men should assert they had seen facts not explicable by
science. That was the one fact which had strikingly im¬
pressed his mind, and it was a fact which he could not yet
explain.
Mr. Charlesworth made a few remarks about methods of
procedure in scientific societies.
Mr. Tagore said that although he was a native of India he
was psychologically united with those present that evening,
for they all belonged to the great Aryan race. The opening
address was rich in truth, poetry, and science, and he thought
Mr. Serjeant Cox had been successful in defining the objects
of the Society, and in setting forth that its members were not
going to be partisans of Spiritualism, of this religion, or that
belief, but intended to study the soul, her sorrows and her
aspirations. He thought that theological subjects should not
be excluded from debate, but that the religious thought of the
ancient Brahmins, Hebrews, Christians, and other religious
bodies should be studied, to learn what were the aspirations of
the soul in all ages of the world; he thought, in short, that no
subj ect should be excluded from discussion, not even Mormonism
or Mohammedanism. He himself was a Hindoo converted
to Christianity. He wished the Society to be tolerant, and not
to interdict any discussion which would throw light upon the
mysterious subject with which they had to deal. He thought
that the philosophies and faiths scattered throughout all history
ought to be studied to throw light upon the nature of the
eternal and indestructible soul.
Major S. R. I. Owen said that he perfectly agreed with the
last speaker, and as to the question of Dr. Edmunds “ What is
a fact ? ” he would reply that he (Major Owen) was a medium,
so he drew from himself his knowledge of facts upon psycho¬
logical subjects; those facts could only be brought home to
each individual man, by the trying of careful experiments at
home, and developing mediumship either in himself or in some
members of his family, but even the latter result was not
always sufficient. If the president and members of the
Society would develope themselves as mediums, then
they would know the facts for themselves; otherwise
they could not be satisfied, they could not know, they
could only believe, and fresh evidence was always liable to
upset any belief. The science of what he would call Spiritism
would ascertain facts relating to intelligent beings who were
independent of the individuals they saw around them, and
Spiritualism would stand in the same relation to Spiritism that
the arts did to chemistry. Spiritism would collect certain facts
just as chemists collected facts, but Spiritualism was a religous
process which was derived from and established its foundations
upon the facts of Spiritism. If the Society only went into
psychology, or the laws of the soul while encased in a mortal
body, and if it neglected Spiritism, it would miss. much Mr.
Tagore wished to see studied. Psychology dealt only with the
spirit in the body, Spiritism dealt with the spirit outside the
body. (Applause.)
Dr. Sexton thought that the speeches which had been made
showed some of the difficulties the Society would have to
contend with in carrying out it splans; one speaker suggested that
one class of subjects should be taken up, whilst others argued that
they should be excluded; one speaker suggested one line of action,
andanother speaker suggested another, so what might beexpected
when they began to go into the matters practically and began
to discuss such great problems ? The need of the Society had
been felt by everybody, for there had been a tendency adverse
to psychology in the present generation; science had become
very materialistic, and had tried to get rid of the soul altoge¬
ther, and to lay down the law that psychology was based upon
imagination and whim; in short, that it had no foundation.
There was nothing more important than the phenomena dis¬
tributed throughout all ages, phenomena which had never yet
been intelligently collected, classified, and put in proper form ;
it was high time that this should be done, whatever the result
might be, either theologically or scientifically. As the Society
had no object in view but to arrive at the truth, it would do
good to mankind at large,' and to this country in particular.
Dr. Edmunds had asked the president to define a fact, and
Mr. Serjeant Cox had distinguished facts from hopes, fears,
and imagination ; but to him (Dr. Sexton) these were as much
facts as anything else, although they were not material, and
they required to be dealt with as facts. He thought that they
would have to give due weight to them in the Psychological
Society. He considered an emotion to be as stubborn a fact
as any other; in truth, every fact was but a process of the
intellect and nothing more.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he quite agreed that an emotion
was a fact, but what he meant was that the Society should
prove that the man really felt the emotion. (Laughter.) He
had sentenced men to penal servitude on the strength of evi-
April 28, 1875.
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
ill
dence relating to facts, and»what he meant by a fact was
something proved on evidence as strong as that which results
in courts of law taking the life of a man, or transporting him;
such evidence was as good as could be obtained in accordance
with the perceptions with which they were endowed. They
did not know whether what was truth to them in this world,
would be truth at all anywhere else. What he meant by evi¬
dence was, that the Society should not take assertions without
making inquiries as to what ground the witness had for making
such assertions, but if the fact were well proved by good testi¬
mony, they had a right to assume it was a fact sufficient for
all human purposes, and man could not do mo^e. The Society
would deal with all that related to the physical nature of
man. He was quite sure that if what Major Owen called the
science of Spiritualism dealt with spirits outside man, the
Psychological Society would have nothing to do with such
spirits, unless they could show they had something to do with
the Society. (Laughter.) With the science of spirits the
Society had nothing to do ; it would be a science of something
else than man. But whatever related to the soul of man was
within the province of the Psychological Society. If the
phenomena were produced by spirits, he did not think they
would come within the province of the Psychological Society,
but if they were produced by man, then they would come
within its province. Spiritualism was but a very small branch
of the important science of psychology, still Spiritualism
could not be excluded from the Society, because it was a ques¬
tion which was very properly before the public. Members of
the Society would be much more concerned with facts con¬
nected with the human soul and body, and would not trouble
itself very much about the other subject.
Sir John Maxwell said that he had listened to the presi¬
dential address with much pleasure. He was in the habit of
meeting Serjeant Cox upon the bench, and onq day they had
a conversation on this subject, while the jury were concocting
their verdict. Mr. Serjeant Cox then told him about the
books which he had written upon the subject, entitled “ Where
am I ? ” or “ Who am I ? ” [A voice—“ No, What am I? ”]
These books should be carefully read, as they would tend to
raise much interest in the subjects which were to be brought
before the Society. He thought there had been a little begging
the question and taking things for granted in some of the state¬
ments that had been advanced that evening. He believed that
no other psychological society had been established as yet in
any part of the world.
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that he thought there was one
in Paris.
Sir John Maxwell continued that he hoped that no attempt
would be made to bring religious dogmas into the discussions
of the Society, because there were persons who already believed
the phenomena to be the work of the devil, so advised their friends
not to investigate; indeed, some of his own friends had told
him to keep out of it, because it was not a safe thing at all.
They seemed to be scared. He thought that religious men
should not try to put down inquiry into psychology, and that
men should enter upon the science in a prayerful spirit,
knowing that all wisdom cometh from above. They should
enter upon it with a desire that their minds might be educated
upon the nature of the soul. Science was science, and he be¬
lieved, in all reverence, that the more men knew of scientific
truth, the nearer did they approach to the Godhead; although
psychology was a mysterious subject, that was no reason why
men should not try to overcome its difficulties. He had much
pleasure in proposing a vote of thanks to Serjeant Cox.
The vote of thanks was carried by acclamation, and the
meeting broke up.
Coinrciit of the Psychological Society.—The Council
of the new Psychological Society of Great Britain consists at
the present time of Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. F. K Munton, Mr.
F. W.'Myers, Mr. George Harris, M.A.I., Mr. Wm. Crookes,
F.R.S., Mr. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., F.R.S.L., and Mr. Per-
cival. Mr. Clayden and Mr. Newmarsh, F.R.S., have been
invited to take seats on the Council.
The Spiritual Magazine.—Dr. George Sexton, the
editor of the Spiritual Magazine, gives the following descrip¬
tion of that periodical in the last number of the Christian
Spiritualist—“ It has from the first .... contained only
such articles as were likely to have a permanent interest. In
this respect it presents a marked contrast to the other journals,
which have simply been, as a rule, mere records of news, and
although rendering valuable aid to the cause, yet from their
contents only likely to have an ephemeral value.”
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
OPENING OF THE READING-ROOM AND LIBRARY.
The reading-room and library of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, are now open, from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30
p.m., and the conditions of admission of the public
thereto will be found in the report of the Council
meeting published in last week’s Spiritualist. For
many years London Spiritualists have been scattered
like sheep, with no home where we could meet each
other of an evening, or during hours of leisure; there¬
fore the opening of these rooms will be generally
hailed with pleasure by all who are in favour of
united friendly action. The assertion has sometimes
been made that Spiritualists can never agree, but the
National Association is a standing refutation of such an
idea; there is peace and harmony throughout the whole
of its ranks, and in the Council there has all along
been such a single and earnest desire to do only that
which is right and true, that inharmony has been utterly
unable to find a place in its meetings, so much so, that
its members often remark that it is a pleasure to be
present at them on that account alone. Even the
mistaken course of the temporary introduction of the
firebrand of theological controversy a year ago, failed
to split up the young organisation or to do permanent
harm. The Association also has had no word of ag¬
gression for those Spiritualists (chiefly residents in
Yorkshire) who are in favour of despotic and irre¬
sponsible rather than free institutions in Spiritualism.
In the National Association every member is equal in
the eye of the law; each member has but one vote, so
that rich subscribers have no more authority than poor
ones, and all members are eligible for election by ballot
to all offices, from that of president downwards. Thus
the whole constitution is as free, indeed exactly the
same, as the system of Government of the Unitqd
States of America. There are no self-elected authorities
in the National Association, and next month the whole
Council, which has done its work so well, resigns, and
offers itself for re-election by the members. By that
time the liability of its members will probably be limited
by law to five shillings each. All the expenditure of
the Association is made by its own officers, and audited
by skilled accountants, notably by Mr. Morell Theobald,
who has generously given much professional time and
ability to this work, so that subscribers are furnished
with proper and regular balance-sheets. Thus the
steps taken by the representatives of all the large
Spiritual Societies and large towns at the Liverpool
Conference in 1873, when it was unanimously resolved
to form a national organisation, has proved eminently
beneficial to the movement, and resulted in the estab¬
lishment of a permanent Association in which freedom,
harmony, and goodwill reign supreme, and which has
never yet uttered an angry word. It is, therefore, a
good nucleus to be joined by those who wish to live
together in peace.
The avowed financial policy of the Association has
been to keep out of debt, and to live within income,
because any system of incessantly demanding public
subscriptions, would tend to damage the movement in
the eyes of the public, conveying the idea that Spirit¬
ualism is in an impecunious state, and that its public
men have no business capacity, from which it would be
a fair inference that they had not intelligence enough
to be safe guides in any new matters relating either
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 23, 1875.
to religion or science. Bat the public demanded that
the Association should establish a home of its own, an
expensive step, since one item alone, namely, the fur¬
nishing of the premises, would amount to .£150 or
.£200, an expense fortunately which need not be in¬
curred in subsequent years, and which is not all money
absolutely lost, since the property acquired belongs to
the members of the Association.
The permanent expenses of the Association consist of
£140 a year, including rates and taxes, for handsome
premises in good condition, £150 a year secretary’s
salary, and say £60 a year for miscellaneous expenses
connected with the house, total about £350 a year.
These are all the expenses it is necessary to incur for a
central public establishment in London, and will be much
reduced by subscriptions for the use of the seance room
and library, also by the profits of soirees.
There was only one objection to establishing a cen¬
tral home like this, and that was the desire on the part
of the Council to expend much of its funds this year in
the provinces, by sending out good lecturers and
mediums. But as the finances would not permit them
to incur both these series of expenses at once, and as
the provincial members were themselves in favour of
the establishment of a home as the more urgent and
necessary step of the two, it is probable that work in the
provinces will chiefly occupy, the attention of the Asso¬
ciation during the year 1876. In the meantime, one
very expensive step having just been taken, retrench¬
ment and close economy will probably be the line of
action during the remainder of this year, and the en¬
deavour will be made to cover a possible deficit of £50
or £100 by a bazaar and other means. Several gentle¬
men have notably liquidated heavy portions of this
year’s expenses, namely, Mr. Martin Smith, Mr.
Charles Blackburn, Mr. J. 17. T. Martheze, Mr. Alex¬
ander Calder, and Mr. Joseph Mylne, and those of
them resident in London have given faithful personal
aftention to the work of the Council. It would be a
most graceful act and an encouragement to them, if the
less wealthy members of the Association would also
make a little extra exertion, by sending in exceptional
remittances this year, giving from five shillings to a
pound more each, as they may be able to afford it;
such small remittances would make a great difference at
head-quarters. Better still if each member would
bring in new members; we know some who have
exerted themselves in this way, and within a month
brought in from six to twelve new members each.
The taking of premises, furnishing them, and the
legally enrolling of the Association, have hitherto caused
the Council to be engaged in unspiritual, financial, and
business subjects, necessary at the outset, just as
digging the foundations of a beautiful mansion is
dirty, though honourable and even pleasurable work.
Soon most of this financial kind of business will pass
away. When the worldly part of the machinery is
finished and rolling smoothly, other and higher sub¬
jects will occupy the time of the Council, which will be
none the less respected because at the outset it has
proved itself competent to deal successfully with the
business matters of daily life, and to give the members
of the Association confidence in its capacity to execute
efficiently all work within its province.
De. Sexton has made arrangements for lecturing every
Sunday evening, at seven o’clock, at Goswell Hall, Goswell-
street, London. Up to the present time the audiences have
been large.
THE COMING BAZAAB.
The following ladies and gentlemen are actively
interesting themselves in the preparatory work connected
with the Bazaar of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, to be held towards the close of next month:—
The Baroness yon Vay.
Mrs. E. T. Bennett.
Mrs. Elgie Corner
(Florence Cook).
Mdme. Martheze.
Mrs. Wood.
Mrs. Kislingbury.
Miss F. J. Theobald.
Mrs. J. Lamont.
Miss Cooper.
Mrs. E. D. Rogers.
Miss Houghton.
Mrs. Abbott.
The Misses Withall.
Miss Sexton.
Mrs. F. Showers.
Mr. E. T. Bennett.
Mr. W. P. Adshead.
Mr. J. C. Ferguson.
Mrs. Thomas Everitt.
Mr. J. Mylne.
Mr. Thomas Everitt.
Mrs. Maltby.
Mrs. Arthur Maltby.
Mrs. H. Cook.
Miss Cook.
Miss Rogers.
Mr. E. D. Rogers.
Mrs. Freeman.
Miss Clara Wing.
Miss Anna Blackwell.
Mr. J. Freeman.
And other ladies and gentlemen. Ladies who intend
to aid the movement by making articles for the bazaar,
are requested to communicate at once with the
secretary. Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C., and their assistance will be grate¬
fully accepted.
Mr. John Lamont, of Liverpool, purposes to send
articles of confectionery sufficient to supply a refresh¬
ment stall.
Friends in provincial towns could give much help in
this matter by forwarding parcels of articles for sale at
the bazaar, on the excellent plan set forth in the
following letter from Mr. Adshead, of Belper:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Judging from this week’s Spiritualist, considerable
interest appears to be felt in the success of the forthcoming
bazaar. This to me is very gratifying, as, at the time when it
was first proposed to employ this means for raising funds, I
was on a visit to my friend, Mr. Everitt, at Hendon, I heard
the project discussed, and at once signified my approval.
I quickly saw, that by this, perhaps more effectually
than by any other method, a handsome sum of money
might be realised, and the social status of Spiritualism
greatly improved. On my return1 home I did my best to
interest the friends here in the movement, offering to take
charge of, and forward at the proper time, any money or
articles which might be entrusted to me for that purpose,
and since that time I have as much as possible kept attention
directed to the matter, so that I indulge the hope that the
Derbyshire parcel will be worth sending. I have no doubt but
it would gladden the hearts and strengthen the hands of the
committee, if they could be assured that in the different
centres of our movement throughout the country, work was
being done, which would justify them in looking forward to the
opening day, not only without anxiety, but with confidence,
that all that will be required to make the bazaar a success will
be buyers. W. P. Adshead.
Helper, Derbyshire, April f7,1875.
Experiments in Mesmerism.—The Mesmeric Committee
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, has
received letters from experienced mesmerists residing in
various parts of the United Kingdom, making valuable sug¬
gestions for consideration. It is intended to begin practical
experiments, which may tend to show the connection between
mesmeric and spiritual phenomena. The library of the Asso¬
ciation contains a few works on Mesmerism; but if any
friends have spare copies of that class of books the committee
would be glad of the loan of same. Communications addressed
to Mr. R. P. Tredwen, Hon. Secretary of the Mesmeric Com¬
mittee, at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E., will receive prompt attention.
April 23, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
201
LEVITATION OF A MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OP ME. 'WILLIAMS.
In'the physical manifestations of Spiritualism, as in other
operations of nature, when there is a gain of power in
one direction there is usually a loss of power in another,
and vice versa. At the materialisation seances of Mr.
Williams, the spectators sit in the dark instead of in
the light as with other mediums, and when the spirits
are ready to show themselves, they illuminate them¬
selves with a light of a phosphorescent nature, which
flashes up for a few seconds, then - dies away. But the
light being thus moderated, and produced only when
necessary, there is a consequent gain of power in
another direction, for the spirits are able to show
themselves floating about the room, the test being of
a most convincing nature when the conditions are good.
It is given in more or less perfection at nearly all Mr.
Williams’ materialisation seances.
On Thursday evening, last week, qi, Mr. Williams’
ordinary public seance, the spirit “ John King” first
showed himself several times near the cabinet, then he
floated upwards in one steady sweep, and while his white
turban was pressing against the ceiling, lit up his face
and the ceiling; next he floated round the circle, above
the heads of the sitters, and a little in front of their
faces. Afterwards he floated to the other side of the
circle, and stood upon the floor, so that he was upon
the opposite side of the circle to the cabinet; while
there he lit himself up so that all could see him and
his features clearly, and at this time there was a violent
fluttering noise in the cabinet, which he said was caused
by his drawing power from the medium.
Among the observers present were Mrs. George
Neville, Mrs. and Miss Cutmore, and Mr. Cutmore,
Jun., Miss Poyser, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and several
other friends. The ordinary dark seance which usually
precedes the materalisation seance was for ^the most
part abolished at the request of the company, in order
that more of the power and vitality of thh medium
should be conserved for the latter.
A METAPHYSICAL CONVICT.
To the Editor of the “ Religio-PhilosopJiical Journal ” {Chicago,
April I0£ft).
Sm—Since my name became more or less prominent in con¬
nection with the investigation of Spiritualism, I have received
many queer letters, but the one herewith enclosed is the
strangest of all. It comes from a man confined in the Con¬
necticut State Prison, for a murder committed over twenty
years ago. He was educated for the Episcopal ministry, and
is a person of very fine intellectual capacities, if one may
judge not merely by his conversation, but also by his phreno¬
logical and physiognomical developments. I met him for the
first and only time, a few days ago, while passing through the
prison in company with several ladies; and, being introduced
by the courteous warden, Mr. Hewes, we chopped logic for a
quarter of an hour. He had read sundry notices of my forth¬
coming book, People from the Other World, and this fact
caused our talk to take the turn it did. ........
Henry S. Olcott.
Hartford, March 19th, 1875.
Dear Sir,—I was not at all prepared for the little encounter
of logic with you this afternoon, and since I could not present
my views in very precise form in conversation, I will try what
I can do with a pen. I think the discussion may be of interest
to the “ general reader.”
The point of philosophy I wanted to advance is that all
real truth, and all that we can really know, is of the negative
order, like the axioms of mathematics; while all that we can
say of things of a positive nature and order—even of the
existence of an external world, which is the nearest thing to
positive reality—is that it appears to be real or true. Hence
many things are apparently and practically true which we
know can not be true. We can never cease to feel and act
precisely like free agents,—we actually believe in freedom,—
though we know that whatever is to be, will be, and that
there is no power in all the universe to produce events that
are not. Bear in mind that there is never a question of what
a thing is ” in itself,” for the very farthest we can go is
to ask how it appears to us. We may say that a thing ap¬
pears real, but cannot say, using terms with philosophical
accuracy, that anything is real.
Hence the only question with regard to Spiritualism, is
simply whether it is an apparent and practical truth ; for we
may know with absolute certainty, if we have enough of
the faculty of reason to be able to know anything, that no
doctrine of a positive nature can be really true. Utility is a
very important element in determining what really seems true.
We are not to suppose that men are endowed with any new
sense faculties in these latter days, but may suppose that old
delusions are ever taking new forms. There is an old form of
the doctrine of Spiritualism that is essential to morality, as the
assumption of its truth underlies all our notions of right and
wrong. Materialism can furnish no valid basis for such
notions. It finds their basis in a Spiritualism latent in our
own nature. Yet to suppose the doctrine an absolute truth,
because it underlies our moral notions, is just as destructive of
genuine morality as materialism can be. Materialism, though
but a negation, can furnish us with a semblance of morality,
and any positive truth that is held as absolute, can do no more.
If we would have a genuine morality, we must take both kinds
of truth at their own worth and value, neither mistaking the
apparent and practical truth for real and absolute, nor the
negative and real truth for the practical.
To make the modern form of Spiritualism of any practical
value, so that we may concede so much of it as to say that it
appears to be true, you must give us something more than
marvels that appeal only to our wonder, and communications
from the departed that add nothing to our stock of useful
knowledge. All this, if we take the sensible view of it, but
makes it appear a senseless and debasing superstition. The
attempt to make things appear beautiful and true that are
not merely useless, but positively harmful, is a mark of a
low order of wisdom. To the young lady who spoke about
“ disordered stomach,” I would say:—
“It is not the whiskey that does the bad deed,
’Tis Reason that maddens the brain.”
Reason, being a purely negative faculty of mind, gives us
but the negation that Spiritualism is not true. We are justi¬
fied in calling it a superstition, not by reason, but by the
desire to give a strong practical effect to our negation.
You labour under a serious mistake in supposing that what
you call spiritual phenomena can be verified like the so-called
truths of physical science. You can verify the existence of
phenomena of some kind, but the question whether they are
spiritual phenomena or not, is insusceptible of verification by
any physical tests.. Can you bag a ghost and carry it to a
chemist for analysation ? When you do, behold, your ghost is
no ghost. That which you see with your eyes and weigh upon
scales is some form of matter, and not spirit. Spirit, by the
very meaning of the term,—and of course reason is superseded
and any reason is dethroned when you begin to compound terms,
—must be invisible and imponderable. We do not know what
spirit is, but do know what it is not. It is not matter,
not thing, for all our conception of entity or thing is filled by
the term matter. Spirit is not the name of anything that is,
but simply the name of what matter is not. Philosophy, as
well as general speech, necessitates the use of names for not-
things and things ideal, as antilogues for the name of things
real, and their use unfortunately gives rise to superstition.
The terms mind and thought, used as the names of entities,
are synonyms of spirit. Bat it is not mind or thought that
thinks, any more than it is life that lives, motion that moves,
or gravity that gravitates.
Although spirit cannot be subjected to any chemical test,
certain physical as well as logical tests can be applied to men
to prove what manner of spirit they are of. It has been
shown that the notion of the full moon looking larger at the
horizon than at the zenith, is not an optical illusion, as was
supposed, but an error of the imagination. It does not look
larger. It is so with opinion. Men do not err so much in
believing things that are incredible, as in imagining that they
believe. Even the lunatic is not so big a fool as he pretends
to be. Instead of applying a scientific test to the phenomena
of Spiritualism, I would apply a scientific test of bread and
water to the men who profess to believe in it, and show them
that they deceive themselves. William Clark.
State Prison, March I8th, 1875.
20$
THE SPIBITUALIST.
April 23, 1875,
Correspondence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IH BIRMINGHAM.
Sib,—A meeting of Spiritualists took place at Mr. Perks’
room on Sunday last to meet Mrs. Groom, who had promised
a seance. Among those assembled were the following gentle¬
men—Mr. R. Harper, Mr. Starling, Mr. Huskinson, Mr. Smith,
and Mr. Perks. During the seance—which was held in the
dark, but under strict test conditions—interesting phenomena
were produced. Four different-sized hands repeatedly patted
and stroked every person in the circle, one hand being of
diminutive proportions. Flowers were placed in front of each
sitter, and two small bells and a tambourine were played,
keeping time with the hymn which was sung. Mr. Hawkes,
a spirit friend of the sitters present, controlled the medium,
and gave some sound advice and cheering encouragement;
he most eloquently urged the necessity of an active propaganda
in Birmingham. His words were: “Friend Harper, the
public want to learn of the spiritual philosophy; they will not
believe your phenomena; they require some scientific reasons
to convince them of the worth of the theory.” Mr. Hawkes
predicted great success for the movement if an energetic and
persistent advocacy were advanced. An eloquent trance ad¬
dress was next delivered by a spirit named Hope, the subject
of which was “ What is Spiritualism ?” It contained a brief
but brilliant summary of the virtues and elevating tendencies
of our glorious philosophy. Altogether, the evening was of
an interesting character, pregnant with encouragement in our
endeavours to advance the cause in Birmingham.
Our thanks are due to Mrs. Groom, the medium, for her
valuable services and kindly assistance in aiding the good
work.
Asking you to kindly insert this brief report in your valuable
journal, I remain, yours faithfully, J. Mahony.
Castro-place, Ford-street, Birmingham, April 12th, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN IPSWICH.
Sir,—Knowing you to be interested in the speed and growth
of what is termed Spiritualism, I have sent you the accom¬
panying paragraph, which I have cut from the Ipswich Journal
of last Saturday. When you consider that Ipswich is what
may be described as a serious town, and as a matter of course
somewhat intolerant of new doctrines—that Mr. D. H. Wilson
is the first gentleman who has ever lectured here on the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism—and that the Journal is a strong Con¬
servative paper, read by the clergy of the eastern portion of
the county of Suffolk, I think you will agree with me that Mr.
Wilson must have given us something extraordinarily good or
we should not have obtained so excellent a notice as the
Journal has furnished. The fact is Mr. Wilson is a thorough
and an educated gentleman, and was listened to throughout
attentively and respectfully, by an audience able to appreciate
the intellectual treat provided for them.
I never saw Mr- Wilson before the day of the lecture, but
having once made his acquaintance I shall be extremely
sorry if I do not have future opportunities of enjoying his
society. He has done more to make me a Spiritualist in two
days than has been done by some two or three years of in¬
vestigation, for in attending public seances I have seldom ob¬
tained any real satisfaction, not having any means of securing
tests which should be convincing. But Mr. Wilson told me
of things which had occurred in his own house under his own
personal supervision, which must convince, if one believes
the speaker, and I could not possibly doubt his veracity, for
his manner and bearing carry conviction to any unprejudiced
mind, and my mind is open at all times to the reception of
Truth.
Ipswich, April 19th, 1875.
A lecture, with the subject, “Criticisms hostile to the
Spiritual theory set forth and refuted,” was delivered on
Thursday evening, in the Lecture Hall, by Mr. D. H. Wilson,
M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. J. E. Taylor, F.L.S., F.G.S., the Curator
of the Ipswich Museum, in the chair. The audience was
large, highly respectable, and deeply attentive. The Chair¬
man stated, as a matter of fairness to himself as well as to the
lecturer, that he was not a Spiritualist, and that he had taken
that position solely from love of fair play. At the same time
he would be the last man in the world to dogmatise on the
possibilities of the universe. If Spiritualism were true, it was
one of the greatest truths of modem times; but if false it was I
a correspondingly gross error. For himself he was open to
receive truth from whatever quarter, and he thought that
ought to be the proper attitude of the scientific mind.
Granting the immortality and the individuality of the human
soul after death—a fact in which we all believed—he saw
nothing grossly improbable in the spiritualistic theory that a
connection between the spirit world and this might exist.
The lecturer commenced by stating that the search for truth
was the proper object of intellectual activity, and he deplored
that revelations of new truths had been met as though men
needed them not. Modern Spiritualism demonstrated to man
his spiritual nature, and claimed in the long run to be a
peacemaker between science and religion. Of the adversaries
of Spiritualism were those who argued that there was no such
thing as a spirit, and therefore Spiritualism could not be true.
Others said that Spiritualism could not be true, for God would
not allow it; but both classes forgot that the question was
entirely one of fact. Others said that the wonderful phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism existed only in the minds of the
Spiritualists, as Trinitarians beheld a trinity and Unitarians a
unity in everything they saw, and that Spiritualists had
therefore a species of turning tables and moving furniture on
the brain (Laughter), which was an infectious malady. The
answer to these was that the spiritual phenomena were not merely
palpable to one sense, but to three or four. Animal magnetism
had been advanced as another explanation of the phenomena;
others imputed them to charlatans and rogues, or called the
believers in them simpletons, but to do so was to blight many
who were highest both in rank and intellect. Others sug¬
gested imposture; and occasionally conjurors gave what they
termed an expos#, but as they refused to be bound by the same
conditions as Spiritualists, their expositions were worthless.
Electricity was another groundless explanation; and then
there was the school of unconscious cerebration, which in¬
ferred a knowledge of the subject spoken of by the spirit,
either existing, perhaps unconsciously, in the medium, or un¬
consciously transmuted to him by some one assisting at the
manifestation. But this theory was set aside by the fact that
spirits discoursed of things—and even disclosed the future—
of which those present could have no knowledge. Lastly, there
were those who upheld the doctrine of psychic or soul force,
which, however reasonable in explaining the action of men,
could not be supposed to exist with power to act beyond the
limits of the body. The lecturer quoted many authors to
show that Spiritualism had existed, and was partially believed
in in all ages—from the time when angels descended from the
regions of glory to men on earth, to our own. Supposing
that the spirits were evil—which, from their evident kindness
and benevolence, was improbable—could we not still learn
from them ? In conclusion, the lecturer set forth the uses of
Spiritualism in informing our minds on the great secret of
existence, so that we might see more plainly the meaning of
Scriptural passages, and that so the atheist might be converted
to a belief in spiritual existence. At the conclusion of the
lecture a gentleman asked the question on paper, “ Does a
Spiritualist believe in the usually accepted doctrines of
Christianity ?” to which the lecturer replied : “ I must remind
the gentleman that there are forty or fifty sects in this country,
each differing from the other, and each professing to be the
true exponent of Christianity.” (Applause.) This was all the
discussion attempted, and the meeting closed with the usual
votes of thanks.—Ipswich Journal.
A FIASCO IN PARIS.
Sib,—You have expressed a desire to hear what are the facts
concerning materialisations in Paris. There is a medium
here, by name Firman, who had taken up his residence in this
city, with the intention of developing his mediumship for the
benefit of the Parisians; but whether he will continue to do
so remains to be seen, for an interruption to his seances has
suddenly and brutally been made by an act of violence com¬
mitted by an incredulous and strong-minded lady, who was
determined to prove to her husband in particular and the
world in general that it was the height of folly to believe in
the appearance of spirits among us.
For the last few months the Count de Bullet has been daily
having some very interesting manifestations with Mr. Firman,
a large number of that gentleman’s friends and relations having
been most satisfactorily materialised, some of whom he has
had photographed. A little Indian spirit, not four feet high, is
the regular attendant at public circles; his mission it is to
show himself whenever required. Last Friday week, a party
of gentlemen were invited to attend a seance at the house of
April 23, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
Dr. Huguet, for the purpose of witnessing the exposure of what
Mrs. Huguet had no manner of doubt was a barefaced im¬
posture. She accordingly concealed herself in a small
cupboard, in the door of which she had had made
a cunningly contrived aperture through which to observe the
proceedings of the medium, who was placed upon a sofa right
in front of her post of observation, in a recess curtained off
from the company. Her statement is that Mr. Firman, after
drawing a few heavy sighs to show he was becoming entranced,
quietly began to dress himself a I’Indien, and, putting himself
on his knees, opened the curtain, and began to talk to the
gentlemen present. Upon this she burst out from her place
of concealment, and, throwing herself upon him, she pulled
off his disguise, indignantly exclaiming—“ You shall no longer
carry on your deception.” Now it is quite certain that the
company, upon the curtain being drawn aside, beheld poor
Firman on his knees, with the infuriated lady standing over
him, with some white stuff and a kind of silk shawl in her
hands. This tableau vivant had certainly a most suspicious
appearance; and the gentlemen then and there signed a state¬
ment to the effect that they had witnessed the exposure of a
most wicked imposition. The newspapers have gleefully
taken up the cry, and Mr. Firman is for the moment in very
bad repute. Unfortunately, he has received such a shock
that only feeble manifestations can now be obtained. Once,
however, since the assault, “ Kibosh ” has been able to bring
his medium out into the light, where for a short time they
were both seen together at the same time, the mortal being in
a deep trance. Since then we are told that there is so little
power that we must wait till the medium recovers his force.
As soon as possible I hope to be able to show some unmistak¬
able manifestations to creditable witnesses, whose favourable
testimony may counterbalance the present grave allegation.
The gentlemen who signed the accusation of fraud were, in
my opinion, deceived by appearances. It is easy to jump
upon a spirit in the dark, and find nothing but the medium.
They say Firman was disguised with a black mask and
gloves, and a crown with feathers, but these articles are
not produced, and he could not possibly, at the instant
of being seized, have taken them off (especially tight-
fitting gloves), and have made away with them. I have
had several opportunities of satisfying myself of the separate
identity of medium and spirit, and consequently I am sure of
the existence of the latter. Kibosh has been photographed
four times with four different people, always with his crown,
which is probably a fluidic spiritual construction, for it has
been seen to partially fade away. Time will, I hope, set this
matter right. If not, physical mediums had better abstain
from coming to France. You may remember that at the first
public seance given by the Davenports in Paris, their cabinet
was broken up by the audience before the manifestations had well
begun, the trick was declared to have been discovered, the
money was returned, and since then the Davenports have the
reputation in this country of being nothing but common
tricksters. Of course it is more satisfactory and conclusive
when the spirit and medium can be seen by all present at the
same time. There seems to be considerable difficulty in doing
this, especially to strangers. I believe that a great effort is
now to be made by Firman’s guides to convince sceptics; the
matter is in their hands, we shall see how they succeed.
J. N. Gledstanes.
Paris, April 17,1875.
HEALING- MEDITIMSHIP.
Sir,—As a lover of truth and an earnest investigator of all
things spiritual, you will, I am sure, be interested to learn
the following facts in relation to the mediumship of my old
friend Mrs. Olive, who, after a long probation as a medium, is
now enabled to give information and advice on business, as
well as other matters, in a most satisfactory manner.
A fortnight since, a dangerous illness cast its shadow across
my path. I wished, and indeed had promised, to be present
at the soiree held on behalf of our well-known friends, Mr.
and Mrs. Wallace, but for some days previously I had been
Buffering from severe cold and weakness. However, without
seeking the advice of my spirit friends, I went; the slight
fatigue incidental to the journey completely prostrated me,
and my spirit being stronger than my body, brain fever set in.
For two days after, I knew no one save the medium and my
son’s wife, who faithfully ministered to my comfort. At last,
under the soothing influence of my kind nurses, who carefully
carried out the instructions given them by Dr. Forbes, my
brain grew quieter, and the fever left. I am now, after nine
days’ serious illness, better than I have been for some time.
In conclusion, I would say to the intelligent Spiritualist, as
well as to the earnest investigator after truth, that the power
of Mrs. Olive’s mediumship is at present but imperfectly un¬
derstood and appreciated. I have tried in various other direc¬
tions for communications on business, medical, and other
matters, and not in any one case have I found powers to
equal hers.
The above is but one instance, and, in looking into the past,
I see how much my spirit friend, Dr. Forbes, has helped not
only myself, but those I love and respect most in this world.
There is another old friend, who, if necessary, may be con¬
sulted, in this earth life. I refer to Dr. Pearse, of Notting-
ham-place. To all who suffer, I would say go to Mrs. Olive,
and, whether the affliction be mental or physical, they will
surely be benefited; they will find her good and true, and
will recognise wisdom in the advice of her spirit friends.
Agnes Frances Maltbt.
8, G-ranville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road,
Hammersmith, W., April 12,1875.
THE SLEEPING GIEL OE TUEVILLE.
Sir,—It appears that in regard to this girl’s sleep the sus¬
picions of the Government have been aroused, and (no doubt
after consulting the law officers of the Crown as to the law,
and some physician on “the state of the case ”), they have
threatened the mother with prosecution “if she does not force
more food on the girland such being the fact, I think we
must abandon all idea of attempting a cure, seeing that there
is so mubh ignorant prejudice existing still, both as regards
mesmerism and the phenomena of Spiritualism, and that we
might be interfered with, or in the case of non-success be
accused of causing her death.
Supposing, in the instance I have related of the young lady
kept in a mesmeric state for seven months, and finally cured,
the Government had required me to “ force more food on the
patient,” the patient would have died from the attempt, and I
should have been prosecuted for the result; and I fear the
Government interference will prove fatal in this instance.
But as regards the philosophy of sleep, we must begin
with the lower animals. In the Crystal Palace of ’51 all
the world were interested in ,a live toad that had been
found in the centre of a block of stone, in which it must
have existed for centuries. There could be no doubt about
the fact; and yet people wiser than nature, were incredulous,
just as they are about clairvoyance and the phenomena of
Spiritualism ; and just as they could not believe that the corn
which had slept quietly in the tombs of Egypt for four thousand
years could be made to grow; but it did and does; and we may
refer to the case of the dormouse, and of the frog in the mud
at the bottom of our ponds, with its mouth sealed up for nine
months. Note the little fly in a corner of your room, or on an
outside wall or shed for a whole winter without food, yet on
the wing and seeking the sugar-basin on the first mild day
in spring. Or again, the eggs of certain insects, or the seeds of
certain plants, that lie hidden in the soil for long periods,
until conditions become favourable to their development; a
fact not doubted now, but denied not so very long ago by
naturalists who were not content to learn from nature. If
Messrs. Darwin and Wallace’s theory of natural selection be
true of a development from the lower animal form to the
higher by slow degrees, on the principle of the survival of
the fittest, then we are inheritors of the past, and we
must suppose that we retain in a latent state more or
less of the natures that we in the course of progress have
passed through, so that we may easily suppose that under
certain conditions we may exhibit qualities which in a
general way are only observed in our ancestors in the animal
world. Just as long sleeps and the life in a trance for con¬
siderable periods without the necessity of any nourishment for
each are a fair and logical deduction from Messrs. Darwin, and
Wallace’s principles. I do not accept the theory of natural
selection myself, but still we may consider it in this light, in
speculating on certain abnormal and exceptional states to
which certain natures are occasionally subject, and by which,
as it were, our science is put out and our boasted knowledge
all at fault.
I grant that it is better to doubt than to be over-credulous,
but it should be such doubt as leads to investigation and ends
in certainty; not such doubt as leads to scepticism and denial,
and on which, the whole history of science, progress, and of
opinion is a profound lesson. The difficulty is that we do not
see how to apply former instances to new facts that are in
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apiul 23, 1875
their naiure so very different, tbongh in course of time we
come to see that in general the new facts are only novel in
appearance, hut fundamentally, not essentially, different from
what we have long been familiar with, and in regard to which
the exceptional exhibits the rule. Heney G. Atkinson.
Boulogne.
TESTS AT MATEBIALISAIION SEANCES.
Sib,—The reports of materialisations of late are so con¬
vincing of the fact that the medium and forms are different
beings, that the most hard-headed sceptic must give in on
this point, although he will never be tired of suggesting new
modes of fraud. Strange enough, one loophole is not touched
upon in any report, viz., the possibility of access of other in¬
dividuals into the cabinet. A secret door or trap may he well
concealed, but would show after the seance, when the covering
paper would be broken at the edges. A whole side, however,
of a recess might be so arranged as a door, as to escape the
most searching investigator, and a green-room for preparing
and dressing “ghosts” be close by. This suggestion is not
meant as a probable explanation, but as a hint to satisfy, by
tests, the sceptic on this point also. 0. Beimeks.
Manchester, April 18th, 1875.
[In materialisation seances editorially recognised in this journal, or re¬
corded by Mr. Crookes or similar authorities, this hypothesis is out of the
question, the mediums being off their own premises and in those of per¬
sons of standing and character. "Where this is not the case, and a pro¬
perly-constructed cabinet is not used, the public should hesitate to accept
the manifestations as beyond question.—Ed.]
Letter erom Mr. Morse.—Mr. J. J. Morse, in a letter
from America, dated the 5th instant, addressed to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, conveys his thanks
for the mark of esteem on the part of the Council towards
him in electing him as one of the honorary members of the
society. He adds that “ co-operative union is the only basis
of successful operation.” Mr. Morse says be “hopes to be
able to return and resume his labours in England during
October next.”
Testimonial, to Mr. John Collier.—Mr. Collier, who
is lecturing on Spiritualism in the United States, to raise
funds to clear off debts contracted in connection with an insti¬
tution he started in Birmingham, completed his engagement
at Springfield, Mass., on Friday, March 26th, and was then,
according to The Banner of Light of April 10th, presented
with a fine gold watch, valued at 125 dollars; other articles
of a useful nature—such as glass and silver ware—were also
bestowed, the whole being a complete surprise to him. The
presentation occurred at the house of Mr. Harvey Lyman, the
principal contributors being members of the Free Religious
Society. The watch bore the inscription: “ John Collier,
Springfield, Mass. Presented as a tribute of friendship.”
The National Association Reading-room.—Last
Monday, the new Reading-room of the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, was
opened. It is well supplied with the current periodicals upon
Spiritualism published in all parts of the world; several
standard general newspapers and magazines are also on its tables
f o the use of readers. The nucleus of a library is in course
of formation, a few books having been bought, and between
forty and fifty volumes having been lent to the Association
by members, for use by readers until a permanent stock shall
have been purchased. The books in the library will not be
exclusively limited to subjects connected with Spiritualism,
for works by Darwin, Lyell, Huxley, and other great thinkers
will be found upon its shelves. Captain James has presented
to the Association Colquhoun’s Isis Revelata and Sandby’s
Mesmerism, and its Opponents. Mr. Keningale Cook has pre¬
sented Reichenbach’s Researches in Magnetism, Ashburner’s
Animal Magnetism, and Teste’s Animal Magnetism. Mr. F.
Tindall has presented a volume of his poems, and a Man¬
chester gentleman a copy of his work, Where are the Lead ?
The Baroness von Yay has also presented her works to the
library, but they have not yet reached England. Valuable
hooks have been lent to the library by Mr. Martin R. Smith,
Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Kislingbury, and Mr. E. T. Bennett.
Members have begun to make use of the home thus established
in London, and friends living in the suburbs or in the country
find it specially convenient as a place of call; it is proposed
to supply tea and light refreshments on the premises at a
moderate charge to those who desire them.
Mrs. Showers has in preparation a paper on some of her
experiences, which will be read before the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism duiing the month of May next.
As the attendance of members is likely to be large upon the
occasion, non-members desirous of being present are requested
to make early application to the Secretary for admission,
because only a limited number of visitors can be accom¬
modated.
Religious Opinions of Africans.—The following is
extracted from Livingstone’s Missionary Travels in Africa,
published in 1857 :—“ There is no necessity for telling even
the most degraded of these people of the existence of a God or
a future state, the facts being universally admitted. Every¬
thing that cannot be accounted for by common causes is
ascribed to the Deity, as creation and death. ‘ How curiously
God made these things,’ is a common expression ; as also ‘ He
was not killed by disease, he was killed by God !’ and when
speaking of the-departed they say ‘ he has gone to the Gods.’
On questioning intelligent Bakwains as to their former know¬
ledge of God and the future state, and of good and evil, &c.,
they have scouted the idea of any of them ever having been
without a tolerably clear conception on all these subjects (page
158). When the natives turn their eyes to the future world
they have a view cheerless enough of their utter helplessness
and hopelessness. They fancy themselves completely in the
power of the disembodied spirits, and look upon the prospect
of following them as the greatest of misfortunes. Hence they
are constantly deprecating the wrath of departed souls, believ¬
ing that if they are appeased there is no other cause of death
but witchcraft, which may be averted by charms. Near the
great falls of the Zambesi, three Batoka chiefs offered up
prayers and sacrifices to the Barimo (gods, or departed spirits).
These powers are prayed to by hunters and others for success.
In sickness sacrifices of fowls and goats are made to appease
the spirits. And when they recover from sickness or are
delivered from any danger, they offer the sacrifice of a fowl or
a sheep, pouring out the blood as a libation to the soul of
some departed relative. I could not ascertain that even those
who have such a distinct perception of the continued existence
of departed spirits, had any notion of heaven; they appear to
imagine the souls to be always near the place of sepulture.
The same superstitious ideas being prevalent through the
whole of the country north of the Zambesi, seems to indicate
that the people must originally have been one. All believe
that the souls of the departed still mingle among the living and
partake in some way of the food they consume. Strange as it
may appear the inhabitants of the Nicobar Islands in the
Indian Ocean, according to the account given of them in a
work lately published by Mr. F. A. de Roepstorff hold very
similar religious beliefs to those ascribed to the Africans by
Dr. Livingstone. Though living almost naked in a low state
of what we boastfully call civilisation, the inhabitants of these
islands enjoy a perfection of domestic peace and enjoyment
truly charming. For truthfulness, honesty, good nature, and
exemption from the vices of civilisation, they are unsurpassed.
Nothing indeed seems to trouble these happy islanders but
their imaginary fears.: but the manes of their deceased pro¬
genitors are the objects alike of their dread and abhorrence.
They maintain an incessant war against them, and employ all
the devices which a morbid fancy can suggest, to disarm these
demoniacal essences of their supposed malice.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Miss Blackwell desires us to state that she presented her por¬
trait to the National Association of Spiritualists in consequence
of the general request to members to send in their photographs.
Correction.—In the Spiritualist of April 9th, 1875, p. 170, col. 2,
par. 6, should read, “ Thou Pure' and Perfect Spirit keep them
unspotted and unstained. Cleanse their thoughts. Purify their
motives. Elevate their desires. Spirit of Wisdom make them
to grow in wisdom and in knowledge, and still to thirst for
more.”
We have received letters from Dr. Hitchman and Mr. Everitt,
setting forth that Dr. Hitchman had not asked to be elected a
vice-president of the National Association, as a sentence in our
report of the last Council meeting stated, but that Mr. Everitt
had informed Dr. Hitchman that he would propose him for elec¬
tion to the office.
Several letters were received on Wednesday morning, too late for
insertion in this issue; letters not containing late news should
always reach us earlier in the week.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs, Negretti and
Zambia, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
April 23, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
*ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the fGREA.T AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OL AIR VO Y ANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.O.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
"RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
'13 OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi-
XV ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of 'he Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
'R. W. GL SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having success tally treated several cases, is again ouen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
X V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 861, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon (as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
ill. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
'ESSRS. HARRY BASTIAN AND MALCOLM
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2. Vernon place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each ; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
1^5 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
'RS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
. STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
XTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
_L v of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily) from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication cf their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
F M. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
a Sittings it la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. GrosVenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balbam, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.0
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Waaon’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairn s-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., Wesi Kensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earl ham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. TeLE, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-stieet, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J , Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-squaie, Goswell-road, E.0
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place. Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pe&th.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spirimalist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs »Cora L. V. Tappan, New Yorli, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
O. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Marahosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Cbamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Apkil 23, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. "Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C,S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes* to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:— '
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
■ “Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'' .  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.;
“THE SPIRITUALIST’’ NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Msrtheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States) ; Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
A book: for the MILLION.
Read the following from “ The London Review."
The Two Discoveries ; or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the day.
Enquiring minds long to pierce its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths. Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths of mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which will amply
repay an attentive perusal, it is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially proves the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of the day, to the perusal of our readers; and congratulate the author
upon producing a work so replete with information, and of such absorbing
interest as the “Two Discoveries.”
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
rglHE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI-
JL TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to. 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tykrman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Til MANUEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
, Hi WRITING By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and *he other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jekns—I. J osper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridoe & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
