AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 159.—(Voii. VII.—No. 11.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 10,1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontents.
Lifting a Comer of the Veil       121
Extracts from the Trial of the Spiritists in Paris:—A Disputed Photo¬
graph—Two Claimants ... ...      122
Spirit Teachings        124
The British Association at Bristol...   126
Mr. Joy’s Experiences in America:—A Seance with Mrs. Webb, of
Chicago—Messages     ...   126
Spiritualism in China  ...   126
The Spiritualist Library  127
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris  127
Shooting at a Spirit. By William H. Harrison...    128
Provincial News :—Bishop Auckland—Newcastle—New Shildon—
Southport—Leicester—Liverpool—North of Ireland—Blackburn.. 131
The Annual Conference of Spiritualists  132
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Dalston, 123; Passed to Spirit Life, 130;
Soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists   13.,
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 16, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, 'and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount o f the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
M
R. COGMAN’S QUARTERLY TEA-MEETING will
take place at 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end-road, E., on Sunday,
Sept. 26th. Tea at five. Admission One Shilling.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, (See., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. .
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th, 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street,* London.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. Limp cloth, red
edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £26 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiriludlism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 6£d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 44d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen 11 Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Here ford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry £>., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Tlassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Bev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Croslaud, Newtoo, Dynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T„ 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-bill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stceet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.8.,T9, Nottingbam-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., Ll.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Bev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, TTpton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood#
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. B., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W#
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, SW.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., L The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, SW.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C^
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Cam vp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhim %
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha, h Bahdjd Capouasou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobiti, bei Potschach, Styria, via’ Grate,
Austria. “
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.'
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and ChevaliOl’
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect. 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles. Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerinan, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. O. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Bue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9, Monigomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec,—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Oowley-road, Brixton, SW.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as abova.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
-LtJL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Bussell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REOAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in bis normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-gardena, South
Kensington.
M
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, Londoh, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative IMesmerism ($0 Years Established), attends patients
daily} from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
QOUL READING; or, Psychometbical Delineation
JO of Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for healtb, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
' THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by j. Tyeeman,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne
inpd all Australian Booksellers,
VOtUJWE jBEVEJ^. JN[UJVIBEE ELEVEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10th, 1875.
Cjr* Spnhtalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS : — Half-a-crown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms
for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Riissell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office, of
Mr. j. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics ofSpiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F, R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, np to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G..Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston. U.S); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-atLaw; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr^ William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbnry ; Mi-s A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
LIFTING A CORNER OF THE VEIL.
In those most early ages whose history has faded
save a few faint vestiges, before the Aryan races sepa¬
rated on their march eastward to India and westward
to Europe, there lived in the ancient Aryan dwelling-
place men who strove, as men strive to-day, to lift
the veil that hangs over life, being, and the inner
world, and, it may be, raised it as high as any of
their descendants. Greatest amongst those forgotten
sages was one whose name has come down through
Greek channels as Zoroaster, the dimmest and most
shadowy of all those ruling souls whose influence
cannot die, but stretches through time to the further¬
most generations of kindred spirits. For thousands
of years his wisdom survived, but perished in the ruin
of letters and civilisation in the fourth century, per¬
haps because in that dark period sympathetic thought
and communication between the material and unseen
spheres were stayed ; but some few sentences survived
in the mystic pages of the Platonists, and these oldest
of utterances—older than Thales or Orpheus, more
venerable than the Vedas—will reveal to understanding
eyes that spiritual illumination was clear and decided
in the primitive Persian days. Filtered through many
milleniums and languages, their drift and teaching,
rather than their original garb, remain. None can
tell how much may have been observed or misunder¬
stood : eyes bathed with Spiritualist discernment will
probably read them best. Drawing from these sources,
Macrobius says of the soul’s origin that “ it is a-particle
of ether (the akasa, or fifth element, of the Puranas,
by which supersensual sounds and intuitions are con¬
veyed) which gravitating to the earth unites with and
animates matter or body, and when the body dies its
gross elements dissolve, but this incorruptible particle
returns to the great ocean of ether, if not retained by
its union with the lunar air. If so retained, it keeps
the shape of the body, and becomes a phantom or
ghost, the representation of the deceased. This is
what the Greeks called the utiaikov of the soul, the
Pythagoreans its chariot, and the Rabbins its vessel or
boat.” Zoroaster, as reported by Proclus, terms these
particles—
Intellectual conceptions from the paternal fountain,
Partaking abundantly the flower of Fire in the point of
restless time ;
Borne through the vast recesses of the world like swarms,
From the primary self-perfect fountain of the Father,
Poured forth these primogenial ideas.
In the same vein of philosophy Milton speaks of
souls arrested and in degradation—
Such are those thick and gloomy shadows damp
Oft seen in charnel vaults and sepulchres,
Lingering and sitting by a new-made grave,
As loth to leave the body that it loved.—Camus, 470.
In another place Zoroaster intimates that souls not
'VITHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM j purified pass through many cycles of generation, say-
YV EXPLAiNED.^^By^Freak.^A.Pnce3s. j ing that a.« girdedjoul perpetually views and passes
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875.
through all things in a certain space of time, which
being performed it is presently compelled to run back
again through all things, and unfold the same web of
generation to the world; for as often as the same
causes return the same effects will in like manner be
returned.” What is meant by a girded soul may be
inferred from another saying, that “the ungirders of
the soul, which give her breathing, are easy to be
loosed.” But souls that are not retained or cum¬
bered, or have accomplished “ the telestic life ” which
“ through a divine fire removes all stains,” rise
swiftly upwards, even above the “ starry chime,” as it
is further said “ascending souls sing a poean,” and
that in the Intelligible World “ the veins of fire extend
every way to the unfashioned soul,” that is, a soul
fresh from earth-life or just released from the cycles
of generation and dazzled by the first opening of what
the oracles mystically call “ the flower of Fire.” Here
it becomes drawn into those apxcn or principles spoken
of in some of the most mystic surviving verses, which
only in latter days are beginning to reveal their
meaning.
The Principles, which have understood the Intelligible works
of the Father,
He has clothed in sensible works and bodies,
Being the intermediate links standing to communicate between
the Father and Matter,
Rendering apparent the images of unapparent natures,
And inscribing the unapparent in the apparent frame of the
world.
There was a poet of our own days, of a genius
incomparable and companionless, more versed than
any of his time in the recondite sources of these
primeval intuitions, to whom, as to Swedenborg,
glimpses seem to have been given of that supersensual
sphere where music and colour and perfume are one ;
where hues are audible and harmonies visible ; and
who in sleep composed verses rare and precious
beyond all waking inspiration. It seems likely that
various intimations scattered through the Oracles sug¬
gested to him, perhaps under guidance, a vision that
hints the secret of what is meant by “ the intellectual
whirlwinds,” “ the principles that always remain in
ceaseless revolution,” “ the superlatively blessed souls
which understand the works of the Father, and are
ever pouring from heaven to earth,” and who are de¬
clared to be “ swift to the persevering mortal.” Some
such hidden allusions may have been in Coleridge’s
remembrance ^,nd influenced him when he wrote :
Of that innumerable company
Who in broad circle, lovelier than the rainbow,
Girdle this round earth in a dizzy motion,
With voice too vast and constant to be heard;
Fitliest unheard ! for oh, ye numberless
And rapid travellers! what ear unstunned,
What sense unmaddened, might bear up against
The rushing of your congregated wings ?
Such, it is hinted, may be the destination and employ¬
ment of some of the higher circles of those countless
nations of the dead, sweeping in infinite legions round
their discarded dwelling-place, and watching all the
changes and trials of the mortal life they have left;
sometimes, under what restrictions cannot now be
known, interfering or influencing, warning or en¬
couraging, and there are times when the rushing of
their wings is more audible, and glimpses are caught of
the gleaming travellers. From those swift armies
came the Shape that daunted Brutus and made all the
bones of the Temanite to shake, and from those radiant
circles descended the “ voices ” which the one abso¬
lutely pure and sublime recorded medium, Joan of Arc,
unswervingly declared ever impelled and guided her on
her marvellous mission to save France, bore her faint
and wounded through opposing hosts till she could
strike the wall of Orleans with her sword, and, as by
some miraculous influence, cow the garrison into sur¬
render, and sang hymns of rejoicing in her ears as she
crowned the dauphin at ftheims. To those voices the
heroic girl bore the supremest attainable testimony
when on the martyr-scaffold, with flames rising fiercely
round, she lifted her head, exclaiming, “ The voices !
they are of God!” Ten thousand men wept, and a
fanatic English soldier, who till now had believed her
a witch, and sworn to throw a faggot on her scaffold,
and did so, suddenly turned away a penitent for life,
saying everywhere that he had seen a dove rising upon
wings to heaven from the ashes where she had stood.
Perhaps his eyes were unsealed and he saw a reality!
Many of the Zoroastrian Oracles shadow forth the
idea of spiritual guidance and guardianship, and the
distribution of intellectual orders over all regions of life
and being, by whose superintendence the Kosmos is
bound together. The terms of modern science, such as
conservation of force, indestructibility of matter, per¬
sistence of type and evolution, indicate the methodis by
which they operate. These are swayed by “ the mind
which conducts the empyrean world,” and an oracle
adds, “ Power is with them, but mind is from Him,”
i.e., “ the Eternal Father, the framer of the fiery
world, the Mind of minds.” This, the one principle of
the universe, can only be celebrated as “unknown
darkness,” three times pronounced so !
These most ancient doctrines of intercommunication,
interpenetration, and universal adjustment have been
set forth anew in our times by the Master to whom
every aspect of myriad-fold modern culture was
familiar, and who could marshal and dispose of all
sciences, philosophies, mythologies, arts, and literatures
as easily as a gardener sets plants. His eyes, touched
with “ the flower of fire ”—
Saw all things with each other blending,
Each to all its being lending,
All on each in turn depending;
Heavenly ministers descending
And again to heaven up-tending,
Floating, mingling, interweaving,
Rising, sinking, and receiving
Each from each ; while each is giving
On to each, and each relieving;
Each the golden streams—the living
Currents—through the air is heaving—
Breathing blessings, see them bending,
Souls from hurtful taint defending,
Whilst everywhere diffused is harmony unending!
EXTRACTS FROM THE TRIAL OF THE SPIRITISTS
IN PARIS.
A DISPUTED PHOTOGRAPH—TWO CLAIMANTS.
Audience of June 16th, 1875.
Witness, Edouard Raymond or Prevost, Journalist.
The President—Q,. Are you not the son-in-law of a gentle¬
man residing at Dreux, a photographer, who is recognised as
one of the spirits evoked by M. Buguet? Did not you perfectly
recognise your father-in-law ?
A. Oh! perfectly. Moreover, we found a print from the
negative made use of by Buguet. (This witness, notwith¬
standing the observations of the president, failed to make him¬
self heard.)
Q. So, then, a photograph of your father-in-law, who is living,
and is an inhabitant of Dreux, was sold as that of a spirit under
the name of Edward. Your father-in-law was hurt at finding
himself thus sold about in a ridiculous position ?
Sept. 10, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
A. Yes, sir, and I took all the necessary steps to stop the
sale of this photograph.
Q. Did you have any communication with M. Leymarie on the
subject
A. No, sir.
Q. M. Leymarie, on his part, pretends that the portrait which
you take for that of your father-in-law is that of a M. Poinet with
whom he lived thirty years, and who died of a cancer on the
heart.
Witness, Colonel Can% of the Artillery.
The President—Q. Have you not had relations with Buguet
in the matter of spirit-photographs ?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Did you obtain any results ?
A. Yes, each time.
Q. Did you recognise the spirits evoked ?
A. No; one only—Allan Kardec.
Q. You know now what was the procedure of Buguet ?
A. No; we held the plate ourselves. We saw it put into the
dark slide, which we did not leave for an instant; in fact wo
followed up and finished the entire operations with the photo¬
grapher.
Q. And the result was the portrait of a photographer at
Dreux, who is very much astonished at finding himself in the
market ?
A. Buguet did not operate.
Q. Well, it is certain that the portrait of a living person was
obtained ?
A. For me, it is a spirit.
Q. And there are attestations declaring that it is the person I
have indicated. I am surprised that you should remain still
under a deception ?
A. He might have deceived at a certain period, but he was
assuredly a medium during a certain time.
Q. But the sun can only act on bodies. If you become in¬
visible, how do you suppose that your photograph could be
taken ?
A. Since you invoke science, permit me to remark that when
you throw light on a prism you have the solar spectrum, at both
ends of which you have invisible rays; some of these are only
demonstrated by the heat which they send forth; they exist,
although you cannot see them, and although you cannot account
for their results by means of the eyesight. The others are
the chemical rays. The rays of the sun separate themselves so
, as to form the spectrum, at one end of which you have the
rays which produce heat; that is to say, something which you
are unable to see, and which is only indicated by ~the thermo¬
meter, or by instruments of extreme susceptibility.
Q. That does not annul what I said. We cannot, moreover,
enter upon scientific discussions here. Go and sit down.
Wi iness, George Coehet.
The President—Make your deposition.
A. I only mesmerised M. Buguet once. About the month of
April, 1874, M. Leymarie begged me to come to aid M. Buguet
in obtaining spirit-photographs. I did assist him by my mes¬
meric influence. It often happened that, on invoking an un¬
known spirit, the same spirit would persistently appear on the
plate. As Buguet felt weak, I mesmerised him. I was present
at this test experiment. I saw the plate cleaned in the labora¬
tory. The plate being cleaned, we put it into the hands of the
operators, who collodionised it and put it into the dark slide,
after we had examined it with the greatest attention. I stood
behind the operators, and not a single detail escaped me.
Buguet took no share in the operations except to focus the lens.
Q. It was at this experiment that Colonel Carre assisted ?
A. He posed. The plate was developed, and on it was a
spirit whose veil covered Colonel Carr&
Q. But this spirit, we know it, is a good citizen of Dreux,
still very much alive at this moment.
A. That is not what I desire to explain. I am talking of a
serious test experiment.
The President—Go and sit down.
In a letter to M. Leymarie, dated Paris, June 4th, 1875,
M. Cochet says: “ On the day stated, in March, 1874, I went
to Buguet’s as agreed upon. I found Colonel Carre there, who
had come to be photographed, and he begged me to await your
arrival. Some minutes afterwards you did arrive. Buguet com¬
plained of a violent headache, and I mesmerised him for some
minutes. After he had told me that he was relieved we
adjourned to the laboratory to be present during the preparation
of the plate. This was the first time that I took part in Buguet’s
photographic operations. My object was to be able to give a
judgment on his medial powers, from personal knowledge, con¬
sequently I followed all the movements of the person who pre¬
pared the plate; I did not for an instant cease from paying the
minutest attention to every detail of the operation. Colonel
Carr4, you and I inspected the photographic apparatus, the
slide, and the camera. I am, then, persuaded that if we were
deceived it could not have been through the substitution of
plates. Then it was that you posed with the Colonel. You
obtained two proofs. On one of the negatives (cliches) a spirit
appeared, with apparently a military aspect; on the other
appeared a spirit which almost entirely covered Colonel Carre’s
face. As far as my mbmory serves, the two portraits were not
recognised by any of us. These, my friend, are details of which
I have a perfect recollection, and I am ready td affirm them with
a sincere conviction of their truth.—George Cochet, 88, Palais
Royal.”
Witness, M. Bastian, of Neuilly, Proprietor.
Q. Let me hear your evidence.
A. I have had a spirit photograph handed to me, purporting
to be that of a man who is still living at Dreux. Now in this
photograph, which was shown me last year, in the month of
June, by M. Leymarie, I distinctly recognised the portrait of M.
Poinet, one of my friends, with whom I lived for almost thirty
years, with my wife, M. and Madame Bohren, and Madame
Chastaing, who are here present to bear witness to the truth.
The President: Go and sit down.
The following is from the speech of M. Leymarie’s counsel,
M. Lachaud, on the above subject:—
“ The prosecution dwelt for a very long time on the question of
the apparition which is found on Col. Carr6’s photograph. Col.
Carre, we all know, is a man of the highest intelligence. His mind
is not contented with chimeras, and he has affiimed before you his
belief in the doctrines of Spiritism. He went to Buguet’s and
evoked a spirit. In this spirit M. Leymarie believes he recog¬
nises a M. Poinet, who has long been dead. This photograph
was shown to several persons who had lived twenty or thirty
years with M. Poinet, and in this photograph they recognised
his image. I have before me two certificates signed by nine
persons. Some of them declare the resemblance to be perfect;
others say that it is possible to recognise M. Poinet, and cer¬
tainly, in the case of M. Leymarie, the conviction was un¬
doubted. Now it so happens that a certain M. Raymond protests
against this, and makes a great stir; he declares the photograph
to be a likeness of his father-in-law, an inhabitaut of Dreux.
Can there have been a certain resemblance between M. Ray¬
mond’s father-in-law, and the late M. Poinet? That might be,
and very naturally so. I will read the certificate which I spoke
of just now ; and there we shall find, I think, the complete proof
that M. Leymario might have believed in it, since so many
others, who knew M. Poinet better than he did, do not doubt
about the features being those of this man who is dead.” (Here
follow the affirmation and signatures.)
Here is M. Leymarie’s deposition on the same subject, when on
his trial.
The President—Q. Buguet reminded you that a M. Raymond
had written certain menacing letters to you respecting a gentle¬
man who had been made a spectre of, and whose portrait, as such,
was for sale in the streets. With the full knowledge that this
man’s head was being sold about for M. Buguet’s profit, you told
Buguet that there was no need for him to be troubled on that
account; and spite of all this, you did not try to unravel
Buguet’s secret ?
A. The photographer found himself in the company of a man
of business who was unknown to him; this man threatened him,
and we at first believed that he wanted to take some unfair
advantage of Buguet, as that sort of thing often occurs in Paris.
I did not then, M. le President, hesitate between the word of
this gentleman and the affirmations of four witnesses whom you
are about to hear, who, for thirty years had known the deceased
whose likeness came upon the photograph you allude to, and
who was a person whom I also knew intimately. Nor did I dis¬
quiet myself, possessing, as I did, such affirmations as these on
the one hand, while on the other there only existed the threaten¬
ing letters of an unknown individual.
Spiritualism; at DAlston.—The Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarina-road, Dalston, E., has
published a prospectus which is a model in its way, and which
other local societies could imitate with advantage. It contains
a variety of miscellaneous information calculated to favourably
impress persons unacquainted with Spiritualism, and to induce
them to become members of the society.
124
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XV.
[_At one of •our meetings some questions had been ashed
as to the origin of spirit, and the answers given had been
construed into a declaration of the dogma of Re-incarna¬
tion, not in so many words, but substantially. Though
I had read most of Kardec’s ivories, and had had the
advantage of conversing with some persons who held the
doctrine, I had not come to any contlusion on the subject.
The, following communication, dated Dec. 7th, 1873, refers
to the matter, and to a new control which had shown itself
on the evening in question. The control was totally dif¬
ferent from all others, and was that of a personal friend
who had not long passed from this sphere of being. The
individual characteristics of voice, manner, and tone of
thought were remarkably preserved.']
The control was very far from good, because the
conditions of passivity were not present. Many spirits
wished to manifest, and we used much of the power in
fencing the circle round, and in preventing the incur¬
sion of spirits who would have caused violent physical
manifestations, or have given frivolous and foolish com¬
munications. Moreover, the presence of your friend
and his new control necessarily upset the conditions.
Those who so manifest for the first time do not know
their power, and use it at times ignorantly. Under
such conditions we necessarily spoke with difficulty,
and with less clearness and precision than is usual. In
order to receive trustworthy messages it is necessary
that you have trustworthy conditions throughout the
circle. Hence the remarks made as to the origin of
spirit seem to have been misunderstood. We did not
proclaim that doctrine which you call Re-incarnation.
We did not desire to deal with the abstruse questions
which were put, for that our reply would probably be
misunderstood from the incapacity of the human mind
to grasp such deep truths. We spoke, therefore, inci¬
dentally of what we knew in our own experience. We
said nothing of the ultimate origin of spirit. You have
not yet progressed far enough in knowledge to enter¬
tain such questions. It was only with the destiny of
spirit in one special case that we dealt. In the case
of a spirit that has misused and wasted its opportunities
until it has sunk lower and lower, further and further
from light, until the guardians have been fain to with¬
draw, and the last glimmer of light is quenched—in
this case we said that the lost soul may be re-incarned.
Spirit is imperishable, and, absolute shipwreck having
been made, the soul sinks back far into the depths, and
commences a new career in a new.incarnation. It is,
as you would say, in the position of one who begins
afresh, cast far, far back by lost opportunities, clogged
and hampered, but with a new chance of progress.
It is necessary that we define what we said, lest you
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at ail events, from colour from his own
thoughts; conseqhently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have'been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.->ED.
rush to conclusions false in themselves, and premature.
It is natural that curiosity should prompt the putting
of such questions; but it is well that we warn you that
you have not yet reached a standpoint of knowledge
which fits you to handle such matters. They will come
in their place. Meantime you will be well advised in
leaving them alone.
Even now the influence of the new control is upon
you. In bringing to you a personal friend in all the
perfection of a strongly marked individuality, we desired
to give you evidence of the return of the departed which
should be as strong as you could conceive. Mofe
evidence for identity than has been given you cannot
have at present; but it will bo increased as occasion
serves. Only wait in patience. Your friend has
written to you, has spoken to you,- has given evidence
of his continued existence by his mode of speech, by
his very signature, by details of his earth-life minute
and accurate in all respects. The voice, the hand¬
writing, the thoughts, the Man are the same—unchanged
in all that makes up individuality. The voice from
beyond the grave has sounded in your midst; the dead
lives, acts, speaks with you as he would have done
while in the body. And you yourself, who so little
trust the evidence we give you, are the unconscious
instrument through whom the dead speaks!
We have done this because it is evidence of another
and perhaps more convincing kind to you in your
present phase of thought than the speech and name of
one who has long left your world, whom you never
knew in the body, and whom you must necessarily
accept only on our evidence. Many such have and
will come to you, and will deliver their message whether
you will hear it or no. But here you have your own
friend,, whose character and individuality are known to
you so .well.
You are not dependent on any for help in your
judgment. If you reject this, to you will apply the
Master’s words, “ Neither would he be persuaded,
though one rose from the dead.” That be far from
you, good friend.
The conditions at the meeting subsequent to this
were far more favourable. You were more passive,
more amenable to impression, and it would be better
both for us and you were you to follow more implicitly
the suggested thoughts which we are able to inspire.
When you find us leading you astray, it will be time
enough to mistrust our suggestions. A mistrustful
frame of mind is our greatest bar. And we have given
to you proof ample enough to convince you thoroughly
of the reality of the external Intelligence which acts
upon you. You know us as living realities. You
know that even the action of your own mind is in¬
fluenced by us. The inner soul is not beyond our
reach. Follow, then, more implicitly the intuitions
which are divinely implanted.
The conditions, we say, were good. Your clair¬
voyance is always a proof of good spiritual atmosphere
and surroundings. It is then that the veil of matter is
temporarily withdrawn, and the purged eye sees, as
spirit sees, with no intervening mist. When this is so
we can draw near and manifest our presence. It was
thus that your friend was able to speak. You should
cultivate such seasons of special communing; and
when, on trial, you find that the conditions are bad,
and that the spiritual atmosphere is impure, you should
not force on manifestations which will be of injury to
you, or, at least, which will be of less clear import than
Sept. 10,1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
is well. We ourselves do not always know, save by
experiment, when anything interferes, and we are not
desirous of imposing an arbitrary law, or to withhold
manifestations which are wished for by the circle.
You have seen now what can be done. You will do
well to be patient, and to observe without forcing on
any special manifestation. Be not hasty. Do not dic¬
tate conditions, or impose such as have no other merit
than to make it difficult for us to act at all. That
is not the part of wisdom, and will end only in
dissatisfaction. Do not mix fresh conditions by
introducing new elements to the circle. All hurry
and impatience, all changing of conditions unneces¬
sarily and for the mere sake of change, hinder
us more than you can know. Indeed, we are assured
that if you knew the hindrance you cause by needless
change, and by conditions unnecessarily imposed, you
would not so do. We say again that we have no desire
to form a phenomenal test circle, nor will we so do.
Such a course would be fatal to the work we have in
hand. We do what we do for conviction, and as a
subsidiary step only. Nor do we wish to amuse or
astonish merely. We have nobler work to do ; and if
we feel ourselves compelled to attest our mission by
signs and wonders we must do them when we see it
necessary, and must keep them in a subordinate posi¬
tion. Already we have made more progress than you
think; and to us who do not measure by days and
years the end seems nearer than to you.
+ Imperator.
[On Christmas Day, 1873, another link in the chain
of evidence of personal identity was given to me. A
near relation came and wrote a brief message for me. It
contained internal evidence which satisfied me of the
identity, or, at least, that I was in communication with
some external intelligence who had the power of acquiring
such information as enabled him to personate successfully
one whom I knew thoroughly, and who had been many
years dead. I wished to communicate the fact to his
parents. It was written:—]
No. They are not able to receive it; and you will
but do harm. They would laugh you to scorn. And
though He comforts them by spiritual presence, yet
they could not know of it or believe it. You are power¬
less. Be patient. It is not intended to do more than
prepare the way by influencing your mind. The chief
knows better than to force on the unwilling that which
would but injure them. God has never so worked;
nor does He work so now. The desire must precede
its gratification. Man may not hasten ; he may help,
but he may not judge for himself as to the mode. He
must work under the direction of those who can see
farther, and who know better than himself. He must
accept our guidance, and act under our direction. This
is what we demand, and what few will yield. Hence
our difficulties. The folly and rashness of man combine
with the antagonism of the adversaries to hinder pro¬
gress. Patience; you know nothing of the working of
the plans according to which we act.
[Again—Jan. 16, 1874—a name was written which
was unknown to me. It was evidently the facsimile of
an autograph. 1 inquired about it, and found that the
name was one well known to two members of our circle,
though unknown to me. The date of death—two years
before—was accurately given, the exact date being
specified as well as the place where it took place. Thus
another link was added to the chain of evidence.']
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL,
{From our Special Correspondent.')
Bristol, Fridat.
The pi’ooeedings this year of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science closed hero last night. During the
day nearly a dozen excursions in connection with the Associa¬
tion left Bristol by rail in order to visit different places of in¬
terest within a circuit of about one hundred miles, the various
railway companies running special trains for the purpose. The
excursionists returned last night. During the past week the
subject of Spiritualism has not been officially brought up at
any of the Sections, although one of the professors intended to
put in a paper upon the subject had Mr. Crookes been present
to support him in the discussion; but Mr. Crookes did not arrive
until Tuesday, when it was too late. Although the temporarily
unpopular subject did not come publicly before the meeting, I
heard a great deal about it in private, and feel convinced that
so far as the scientific world is concerned, prejudice against the
subject is wearing off. It is not now generally attempted to be
denied that a considerable proportion of the alleged facts of
Spiritualism are realities. Much in connection with Spiritualism
goes on in private, and there are in private families and among
persons not connected with those known to be interested in
Spiritualism, those who are keeping a keen watch over the
whole subject, and who possess good mediums among their own
acquaintances.
What has just been said should not be misinterpreted to mean
that the vast numbers of persons in this country connected with
the medical and other professions of a semi-scientific nature, have
a less prejudice on the average against Spiritualism than the
public at large; the remarks apply only to scientific men of
note, to those who are the moving powers at such great philo-
sopical gatherings as the British Association, and who have the
means of learning with a considerable amount of accuracy any
facts affecting the scientific world which may be taking place
in any direction. It is among these persons that the prejudice
is wearing off, and I am confirmed in this opinion by a state¬
ment which Mr. Cromwell Yarley made to me a few weeks ago.
He thinks an opinion is growing in the scientific world that some
one or two of its representatives have gone too far, and have
taken up a position in relation to this subject which cannot be
substantiated.
Yesterday I quite accidentally found myself in the midst of some
of the champions of women’s rights. I went with the Bath excur¬
sionists ; our party left here early in the morning, and was re¬
ceived at the railway station at Bath by the town clerk, then drove
over the most interesting portions of the city and its suburbs in
breaks, next visited the abbey, museum, and baths, after which
the Mayor entertained the whole party at a luncheon in the
Grand Pump Room. If Mr. Weller had been there he would
have been pleased at the endorsement of his remark that the
flavour of Bath waters is very much like that of “ warm flat
irons,” for some of it was passed round in a silver cup after the
luncheon, and although all the 130 guests sniffed at it, I did not
see that one of them ventured to taste. In the course of the
toasts Miss Becker was called upon to respond on behalf of the
ladies, and, as an instance of prejudice, it may be mentioned
that directly her. name was uttered from the chair I saw a
gentleman beginning to applaud, and his wife trying to stop
him by holding both his hands. Yet Miss Becker had not pro¬
ceeded half-way with her speech before this same lady applauded
more vehemently than anybody else, because she discovered that
womankind had in her no mean advocate. Although Miss Becker
is clever, she is rather too acid. She remarked that the youngest
gentleman in the company was usually requested to respond to
the toast of “ the ladies she therefore hoped that when any sub¬
ject was proposed in which the gentlemen were very much in¬
terested, they would select the youngest lady in the company to
make the response, then see how they liked it.
At the close of the day the Misses Ashworth entertained the
excursionists at a garden party, at which Miss Becker and
several of those who had taken part at section F in questions
relating to women, were present. The visitors were most ele¬
gantly and hospitably received, and enjoyed themselves very
much in the picturesque grounds. The drawing-room was
decorated with the artistic paper of the Morris company, and
this I immediately recognised as the same which I have seen in
the homos of other friends who take an interest in all questions
relating to the promotion of the freedom of women. At the
supper-table one of the Misses Ashworth made a lady-like
speech, and later in the evening the guests returned to Bristol.
126
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 10, 1875.
MR. JOY’S EXPERIENCES IN AMERICA.
Mr. Algernon" Jot, Hon. Sec. to the British
National Association of Spiritualists, after spending two
months in the observation of the various aspects of
American Spiritualism, will sail from New York on his
way to England about the 10th of October next. The
following letter from him was received by Mr. Benjamin
Coleman, of Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, last
Monday:—
A SEANCE WITH MBS. WEBB OF CHICAGO.
Chicago, 20th August, 1875.
Dear Mr. Coleman,—Last night, through the great kind¬
ness of Dr. and Mrs. Lord of this city, and of their daughter
Mrs. Webb, I was favoured with a seance for direct writing, the
first I have ever witnessed in the light. Mrs. Webb has been
for twenty years a medium for direct writing, but has rarely sat
professionally, and for the last six or seven years has scarcely
sat at all, even in. private, owing to ill-health.
We sat in Dr. Lord’s bedroom—he, his wife, Mrs. Webb, and
myself. The gas was burning brightly the whole time. I had
made the acquaintance of Dr. and Mrs. Lord the previous
afternoon • Mrs. Webb I met last night for the first time. They
had no possible means of knowing that I was going to call on
them, nor of finding out anything about me, and had probably
never heard of me before.
After the presence of spirits and their having the power to
write had been intimated by raps, Mrs. Webb laid a piece of
slate pencil half an inch long on one of two slates which were
on tho table. She then took the slate with her right hand and
held it under the table, which was covered with a woollen cloth.
Her left hand remained on the table. I then heard the sound of
writing on the slate, and presently the sound of the pencil being
laid down on the slate. I then copied on paper what had been
written, while Mrs. Webb took the clean slate. This was
repeated several times, a few of the messages being in answer
to questions or remarks from some of us, but most of them
spontaneous. Some of them were private and personal to my¬
self, and were such convincing tests to me that I send you some
of the rest in the hope that they may be verified, and so prove
as conclusive to you and others as the former did to me.
MESSAGES.
No. 1. “ Biamca (sic) Mo Jou.] I died in Paris, 1849.”
No. 2. “ Tell TV. C. Thompson, of 22, Moorgate-street, London,
that H. Thompson wants to communicate to him soon.”
No. 3. “ I would like to talk to my daughter, Mary Hay.”
Q. Where is she?—No. 4. “ In London.”
Q. How shall we find her?—No. 5. u H. Jones knows her.”
Q. Who are you?—No. 6. “ Her mother.”
No. 7. “Do you know Wm. Wilkinson?”—(Signed) (‘liobert
Chambers.,>
No. 8. “ Remember me to Benjamin Coleman ? ”—(Signed)
“ R. C.”
I was then asked by Dr. Lord: “ Do you know Benjamin
Coleman ? ” and I answered the question; but the spirit of
Robert Chambers (or, as some would say, the psychologised
slate pencil) appropriated it nevertheless, and answered—No.
9. “ Of course I do. He and I have had many a conversation.”
No. 10. “ Tell him [ remember the painting of flowers he
received through Mrs. French of New York.”
Please have this published in The Spiritualist. It may bring
out evidence about the first six messages. The Revue Spirits
will probably copy the first one.
In anticipation of a question sure to be asked by sceptics, I
should state that there seemed to me no physical impossibility
in Mrs. Webb’s doing the writing herself. The test lies
exclusively in the nature of the messages. Those which satisfied
me purported to come from my father, and referred to personal
peculiarities of his which Mrs. Webb could not possibly have
known anything about. My father died, to us, thirty-five years
ago. With kind regards to all friends, yours sincerely,
Algernon Joy.
Mr. Coleman makes the following comments on the
foregoing letter:—
Mr. Wm. Wilkinson, whose name is but little known among
the converts of the last four or five years, but who may be con¬
sidered the mainspring of the movement in this country, was
well acquainted with the late Robert Chambers, and he published
in the Spiritual Magazine many ideas which they had exchanged
together on Spiritualism.
Among his intimate friends it was well known that. Robert
Chambers was an earnest believer, and one of the last acts of
his life was to send me £5 from St. Andrew’s as a contribution
to the Harley-street winter soirees of 1870.
On my return from America in 1861 he was one of a few
well-known Spiritualists who met at my house to hear an ac¬
count of my adventures, and I recollect that he was especially
interested in the marvellous manifestations of the spirit of
Estelle, obtained by Mr. Livermore through Kate Fox, and the
direct paintings of flowers I received through Mrs. French.
I may add that I do not know Dr. Lord or Mrs. Webb, and I
was never in Chicago; and further, that I have never alluded
to Dr. R. Chambers in any account I have ever published.
  B. C.
SPIRITUALISM IN CHINA.
A copy of a good weekly newspaper, well printed, and edited
with ability, entitled The Celestial Empire, published in Shang¬
hai, has been sent to us : the number bears the date of June 5th,
and contains an article sixteen columns long on the subject of
Spiritualism. This article is one of the most fair and sensible
ever penned by a disbeliever. It begins by setting forth that it
is of no use to deny the reality of Spiritualism, and the editor
gives his opinion on this point in the following terms -
“ It is, we think, only right to commence by Confessing our
utter ignorance, practically, of the science which is our subject
of consideration to-day. We frankly avow that we have never
been present at a seance ; never seen a table turn or tiltnever
even heard a rap, or met, to our knowledge, a person endowed
with mediumistic powers. But so widely diffused are the ac¬
counts of the various Spiritualistic manifestations, by persons
whose former scepticism no less than their unimpeachable
character for integrity precludes at once and for ever the possi¬
bility of their being either duped or of wilfully deceiving
others, that whatever may be our own opinion of the cause by
which these extraordinary phenomena are produced, it is to our
mind impossible to do otherwise than accept the facts as they
have been related. The growth of Spiritualistic belief has been
so rapid, and the claims of Spiritualists supported by such un¬
deniably wonderful occurrences, attested by such a cloud of
witnesses of all ages, creeds, and modes of thought, that it
would be idler to dismiss the entire question as a huge impos¬
ture on the one hand and delusion on the other, than it would
be to deny the existence of the Gulf stream, the law of storms,
or the electric telegraph.”
To substantiate the above position a considerable amount of
evidence is appended, including an extract a column and a half
long from the Report of the Committee of the Dialectical
Society. Further on the editor makes the following interesting
statement:—
“We know a case of a gentleman who, being one of an
audience of two thousand persons in an American city where
he was a total stranger, was suddenly startled at hearing his
name mentioned by the medium in a state of coma, and
struck dumb with amazement when a scrap of spirit-writing
was put into his hand, purporting to come from a deceased
friend who had lived next door . to him in an Asiatic town,
and referring to his, the spirit’s, own former scepticism upon the
subject.”
Furthermore he describes the following remarkable seances:—
“ Another manifestation—a type of hundreds more—occurred
to a friend of the writer. A confirmed sceptic, he was induced.
one night, with much difficulty, to join a spirit-circle. Shortly
after he had taken his seat it was announced to him that the
spirit of his mother was present. Startled, but still unbeliev¬
ing, he demanded as a proof of its identity, that it should tell
him the last words his mother said to him upon her death-bod,
which no one but himself had heard, and which he had pre¬
served inviolate ever since. The exact sentence was im¬
mediately rapped out; and, pale as ashes, he rose from the
table, and has been a fervent Spiritualist ever since. Some
months ago a gentleman gave us a very strange account of a
phenomenon that he had witnessed. A medium, in a state of
coma, was shut up in a cabinet, otherwise perfectly empty, with
the exception of a division of lattice-work down the centre,
and very much the same shape and size as an ordinary Ningpo
wardrobe. The room was brightly lighted with gas. In a very
few minutes the doors of the cabinet slowly opened; the
medium was there, perfectly entranced, while from the interior
there issued the form of an aged man, enveloped in a partial
cloud of dim, himinous vapour, who rose in the air and floated
i slowly around and across the room, close to and sometimes
between the heads of the company, often speaking to them as
Sept. 10, 1875,
THE SPIJRITUALIST. 127
he passed. He then appeared exhausted, and retired to the
cabinet again, which stood quite apart from the wall, and might
be freely investigated by everybody.”
Towards the close of the article the editor begins to sum up
the evidence he has collected, and says:—
“ There is no primd facie reason why we should assume an
attitude hostile to Spiritualism. In itself it is a most lovely
and attractive creed, calculated to strengthen our faith in
immortality, to console us in bereavement, and to purify our
lives. But when we come to investigate it closely, it 1 chokes
us off.’ The natural desire that so elevating a theory may be
true, is checked and ichilled by the absurdity of nearly all its
phases, and we are therefore driven to seek for some other
explanation of what we cannot understand. And where shall
we find it ? whither shall we turn, when our feelings are
shocked and our common sense insulted, for the key to these
tantalising mysteries? We believe that there are but two
alternatives; and solicit the indulgence of our readers a little
time longer, while we very briefly touch upon them.”
Here follow two possible explanations other than those which
assume the intervention of departed spirits. The first he quotes
is Serjeant Cox’s “ Psychic Force ” theory, and to this we reply
that if Serjeant Cox’s facts and no others be received, his hy¬
pothesis will fit them very nicely ; but, unfortunately, Serjeant
Cox’s mental bias is such that he habitually turns a blind eye
to inconvenient facts. For instance, in his book What am I ?
he narrates how a table rose in the air by abnormal means in
the presence of a friend of his own ; it so happens that that
friend is the medium through whom the “ Spirit Teachings ”
published in this journal have been given, and who has had most
marvellous evidence of the personal identity of some of the com¬
municating spirits, but of all this Serjeant Cox says not a word.
Further, Mr. Gillingham of Chard published that Serjeant Cox
told him that at a seance in his own house he laid hold of a
materialised hand, which could not possibly have been that of
the medium. But this same testimony, which was given to Mr.
Gillingham a year or so before What am I i was published, is
not recorded in its pages.
Lastly, the writer calls in the devil theory to explain the cir¬
cumstance that some of .the spirits who produce powerful
physical manifestations are very wicked. That on some
occasions such spirits have tried to deceive truth-loving people
there is no doubt, but, on the other hand, how does the devil
theory explain healing mediumship? Many of our healing
mediums go into trances; some of them get feeble physical
manifestations; so it will not do to close the eye to one side of
the picture while examining the other. Instead of flying to the
devil theory, it would be better to fly to scientific law for an
explanation. We think it highly probable that that law will
prove to be “ the lower the spirit the greater is its direct
control over common matter.” These low spirits may further¬
more be divided into two classes, just as navvies and bricklayers
may be similarly divided—namely, first, into those who work
with good intentions, and secondly, into those who work
with bad intentions. If you have a low class man, either in or
out of the body, working from evil motives, you have as thorough¬
going a devil as the most orthodox could desire to complete their
happiness.
THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY.
r . The first of the Spiritualist Library series of neatly-printed
shilling books, in limp cloth covers, has just been issued, in the
shape of an essay entitled Spint People, written by Mr. W. H.
Harrison. It contains scientifically accurate descriptions of
manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the author and other observers in London. As
these manifestations were witnessed in the presence of tho¬
roughly reliable people, whose names were given, and as they
include many which took place at the house of Mr. Cromwell
Yarley, the Atlantic Telegraph electrician, they form good
evidence of the reality of the phenomena to place in the hands
of the general public. The book consists for the most part of
the paper which Mr. Harrison read before the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism, but the said memoir has
been carefully revised and additions have been made. A preface
has been added, and the whole neatly printed on toned paper.
We think that on examination of this first specimen it will be
generally concluded that this plan of introducing a library
series of shilling books is calculated to do good to the Spiritual
movement, for which reason it is hoped that this first book of
the series will be rapidly bought up, in order to pave the way for
the early production of another. It is published at 88, Great
Russell-street, and will pass through the post within the limits
of the United Kingdom for one penny.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
We have received the following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist
Sib,—I had hoped and expected to give you for your present
number a curious con*espondence, in which Buguet figures con¬
spicuously. But it does not seem to be yet absolutely closed,
and I deem it best to postpone it. But I may mention that he
has neither appealed to the Supreme Court of Cassation, like
Leymarie, nor gone to prison according to sentence, like Firman.
He has simply cut and run, forfeiting his bail (only £40 by the
way), and throwing on Leymarie and Firman the further pecu¬
niary burthen of his costs in the two trials. A letter from him¬
self of the 24th instant, from Brussels, announces that he had
been two days in that city, where he intended to remain some
time, after which he contemplated honouring London with his
presence.
That this flight of Buguot had the connivance of the police it
is difficult to doubt. His confirmed sentence on appeal was of
the 6th inst. The law then allows three days for the pourvoi en
cassation. After their expiration, the regular course of things
was to go to prison—or to be taken there. It seems he was left
at liberty for more than a fortnight, with the simple option
open to him between the two alternatives of a year’s imprison¬
ment or the forfeiture of a nominal bail. That there could
not have been exercised over his freedom ox movement any
police surveillance is apparent from the result. To say nothing
of any watch kept over his person here in Paris and at the
railway stations, if his departure had not beeh connived at,
it would have been impossible for a man of rather peculiar
appearance to have crossed the frontier, especially on that great
highway for such journeys, against the will and pleasure of the
police, who were in full possession of the photographer’s own
photograph. But all had been got out of him that was wanted:
the blow vainly supposed to be mortal at Spiritualism—the
torrorisation of mediums in particular and of the Spirites in
general—Finnan in prison and Leymarie’s sentence obtained
and confirmed—the probable suppression of Leymarie for a year
at least, and perhaps the suspension of the Revue Spirits.
Buguet was of no further use. To release him would have been
impossible without releasing the others too, he having been the
principal where they were only charged with complicity with
him. To open—and leave wide open—the door for his escape
was the easy and natural thing to be done. He has walked out
of it of course. If he had been accompanied to the frontier
and politely bowed across, the thing could scarcely have been
plainer.
For my part, I am not sorry for it. I am decidedly glad of
it. It would have been no consolation to the deeply painful
feeling with which we must all regard the unmerited personal
sufferings of his victims,ito have known that the author, or rather
the instrument, of their wrongs was himself undergoing the same.
I rather prefer to see the instructive discrimination made. It
makes the whole thing at once more complete and still more
clear. Moreover, in point of moral force mediums are apt to be
poor weak creatures, not to be measured and judged by the
same standards of responsibility applicable to ourselves and to
other men. Firman, in prison, has said that he hoped Buguet
would get off somehow or other, rather than have to live through
a year of that miserable existence, and that at any rate it would
be a great aggravation of his position to have Buguet introduced
into the same prison with him. He is a good-hearted fellow,
and has no vindictive feeling against him.
About ten days ago, notwithstanding Leymarie’s pending
appeal in Cassation, an order for his incarceration ivas prepared,
and was about to be executed (for so the law allows), but it was
counteracted through very strong personal influences, and con¬
vincing assurances that nothing would ever induce him to run
away.
Buguet cannot return to France for five years (unless a special
permission should be earlier obtained). After that period all is
sponged out.
Leymarie has secured an associate in the editorship of the
Revue Spirite in the person of M. Bourgtss, a retired captain of
cavalry, by whom the publication of the Revue will be kept
up, unless some other means shall be hereafter found to put it
down. He was told that if his name appeared signed to anything
in the Revue it would be at once suppressed, and himself in¬
carcerated. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Last week an error was made in quoting from the above
letter. We said that Buguet could not have escaped without
the connivance of the police, but Mr. O’Sullivan’s actual state¬
ment is that it is difficult to see how he could have done so had
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SfiPT. 10, 1875.
they tried to stop him. Next week we hope to suggest some
practical method of stopping the persecution of Messrs. Ley-
marie and Firman, the Courts having refused to hear the best
evidence in favour of the former, at all events.
SHOOTING AT A SPIRIT.
' BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS OK.
The seance in St. Louis, TJ.S., at which a rifle-shot
was fired at a spirit face, accounts of which have been
quoted in so many English newspapers, is not a matter
of fiction, hut actually took place in the presence of
several sceptics and daily newspaper reporters. The
St. Louis daily papers or Tuesday, August 10th, con¬
tain ofllcially-reported accounts of what took place, and
the circumstances are endorsed both by the Banner of
Light and by the Beligio-Philosophical Journal. The
following narrative of what took place is quoted from
the Banner of Light of August 21st last:—
The great rifle-shot test so often asked for by the sceptic
would seem to be complied with in the subjoined narrative,
which is compiled from the St. Louis, Mo., daily papers of
Tuesday, August 10th: W. 0. Clark, a materialising medium
of that city, who had for some time been holding seances at the
residence of C. Tuckett, in Osage-street, was challenged by
Henry Timkens, a carriage-maker, whose place of business is at
814, North 6th Street, to submit to the test of the rifle as follows :
“ Mr. Timkens offered fifty dollars for the privilege of loading
and firing a rifle at a face which Mr. Clark should produce at
the aperture of a cabinet, the medium to disrobe before entering
the cabinet, and put on clothes which the challenger should pro¬
duce. After this change of clothing the challenger was to fasten
the medium to the bottom of the cabinet.” The seance was held
on the evening of the 9th inst. The cabinet was a plain shell
of boards six feet long, six and a half high, and two feet deep,
and was put together in six sections before the eyes of the com¬
pany, which comprised fourteen reporters from [the St. Louis
press, and some other invited guests. The front and back sec¬
tions of the cabinet had hinges in the centre, forming doors for
ingress and egress, while the front was provided with an orifice
near the top, about the size of a face, over which a small black
curtain was drawn, adjustable by a string fastened on the
inside.
The medium divested himself of his clothing, as agreed upon,
in the presence of the challenger and several reporters, and then
put on the clothes brought by Mr. Timkens: viz., a pair of
white linen pantaloons, a white shirt, and white hose. He then
took his place in the cabinet, seating himself on the floor, his
back resting against the side, and his whole person in full view
of the audience except his feet. Mr. Timkens proceeded then,
with the assistance of three or four reporters, to make Clark fast.
Holes were bored on each side of each leg, above and below the
knee-joints, whereupon pieces of seaming-cord were passed
through each of tthe four sets of holes. They emerged below
the cabinet floor, where they were securely tied, and then
fastened to the “ saw-bucks ” on which the cabinet rested.
Holes were also bored on each side of the medium’s back, below
the back, and a piece of rope passed around his waist and tied
on the outside of the cabinet, besides being secured to the saw-
bucks. The medium’s hands were separately bound and then
tied together, the cord remaining being made to pass through a
hole in the floor, between his legs. Bound in this way, it
appeared almost impossible for Clark to move either leg, or to
stir in any way from a position that seemed painful.
The end of the string of the curtain over the aperture was
brought outside and secured at the distance of at least ten feet
from the medium. Nothing further being necessary, the door
of the cabinet was then closed, the black curtain drawn over the
window, and the people waited for further developments.
At the distance of 15 feet from the cabinet, and directly in front
of the black curtains, had been placed a stand, where, by means
of a vice, a small breach-loading rifle was fastened, after a load
was placed in it, and levelled so that the ball would inevitably
pierce the curtain’s centre. Mr. A. B. Cunningham, of the
Globe-Democrat, was requested by Mr. Timkens to fire the rifle,
and accordingly took up his position behind it. In order to
prevent the ball lodging in the wall, a heavy plank was placed
on the other side of the cabinet and directly in the way of the
shot.
The preliminaries were settled at about twenty minutes past
nine, and then, after a period of delay, varied by singing by
the audience and rappings, on a sudden a face appeared at
the aperture, which is thus described by the St. Louis Republi¬
can's reporter:—
“ There it was. A pale, ghostly countenance, that looked as
though it might have belonged to a girl of seventeen at some
previous time in the world’s history. It was a face that might
have belonged to some Greek maiden two thousand years ago,
and reminded one of the marble countenance of some statue.
All who saw Were fairly transfixed with astonishment. The
features were perfectly clear and distinct, being illuminated by
a soft light. There was not the slightest movement of a muscle
or an eyelid that could be distinguished.”
A voice in the cabinet commanded, “ Fire ! ” The rifle ex¬
ploded. The face, unmoved by the operation, continued some
minutes in view, then disappeared as it came, and in about
fifteen minutes the medium was released, excited and exhausted
with his labours. An examination of the cabinet showed that
the ball had passed through the seat opposite the window, and
it was found in the plank hung down beyond. The ropes were
found as tense as when they were first tied, and, on the door
being opened, the medium was found securely bound. The
spirit that appeared, the medium claimed, was his cousin. The
money was paid by Mr. Timkens on the spot.
The entire press delegation were unable to discover any¬
thing looking like deception in this seance, and so state to the
public.
The foregoing circumstances lead to the consideration
of what is actually known about materialisations by
spirits. One kind of materialisation has been thoroughly
examined and tested in this country for many years,
and is intimately connected with those dark circle
manifestations at which voices are heard, and musical
instruments fly about the room. In every case in
which the chief voice spirit of a medium has afterwards
made himself or herself visible, in consequence of the
sensitive afterwards sitting for materialisation manifes¬
tations, the said spirit has always been to a large extent
—intermixed sometimes with marked differences—the
double in appearance of the medium; in some cases it
has been definitely proved that there has been an
actual materialisation, and that while the medium was
sleeping in one place, a living, breathing form, resembling
the medium, robed in white, yet claiming to be a spirit,
has appeared in another place ; it is equally certain
that on some occasions the spirits at the root of the
whole matter have freed their mediums from bonds and
sent them out of cabinets as materialised spirits. Mrs.
Compton’s spirits in America have done good work by
letting this latter phase be carefully examined; for tie
and seal her how the observers would, the spirits freed
her and sent her out in white robes, allowing the
spectators to examine the empty cabinet; yet after the
seance was over the spirits put the medium back in her
former place with the knots and seals intact.
There is another kind of manifestation at materiali¬
sation seances of which scarcely anything has as yet
been published, but which has been studied to some
extent in private through several different mediums, by
sitting for what are called “recognisable faces.” Heads
then appear at the apertures of cabinets, sometimes with¬
out life in them, and strongly resembling masks, although
there has not been imposture on the part of the medium.
It may be that spirits make these objects in the attempt
to produce facsimiles of the features of departed per¬
sons, or it may be that they are veritable masks which
they bring in and carry away in the same manner that
they bring in and take away white drapery, fruit,
flowers, and other things at seances. Mask-like as
these faces look, I have seen one change considerably
in the course of a quarter of an hour. In one case one
of these faces went away and came back again with
projecting teeth, which it had not before. It went
Sept. 10, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
away and came back again with, its tongue hanging
out. Whether the face would have further developed,
and at last have become living in appearance, had the
sitting continued, I do not know. Dr. Slade gets faces
of this kind in America, and daily newspapers have
commented upon them as “ Slade’s masks,” yet they
have appeared under excellent test conditions. In
some cases he has suspended a cloth a yard square
from a string stretched across the room, so that the
cloth hung at the distance of about a yard from the’
wall. Then he and the spectators took their places in
front of the cloth. After waiting a little time, the
cloth whisked up into the air, to show that at that
moment there was nothing behind it but the bare wall.
After falling back into its place, mask-like faces such
as I have already described have appeared at the aper¬
ture. If anybody seized them and they proved to be
masks, the evidence would have then been complete
that tricky and deceiving spirits brought them there;
but if the same person obtained them under less satis¬
factory test conditions, the medium would be con¬
demned as an impostor who brought them there him¬
self. Circumstances like these show how very seriously
the question of deceiving spirits is interwoven with that
of the integrity of mediums.
There is another class of manifestations in which the
veritable living spirits of the departed have appeared to
favoured individuals beyond all doubt, the best authen¬
ticated case of the kind being perhaps that in which the
departed wife of the late Mr. Livermore, the New York
banker, appeared over and over again to him in a good
light, and wrote letters to him in her own handwriting.
Mr. Livermore afterwards lithographed specimens of
the handwriting of the spirit, also specimens of his
wife’s handwriting executed before she left this world,
and there was no difference whatever between the
two. I have never recognised a spirit face.
On reading the account of the shooting at a spirit
already quoted, I at once came to the conclusion that in
all probability not one of Slade’s masks but one of
Clark’s masks was brought in by the spirits, fired at by
Mr. Cunningham, and taken away again by abnormal
agency, so that nothing was afterwards found in the
cabinet. This idea was confirmed by the sentence in
which the spirit was thus described—“ There was not
the slightest movement of a muscle or an eyelid that
could be distinguished.”
A week after I had come to the conclusion that this
was a probable explanation of the matter, the Religio-
Philosophical Journal of August 28th, came to hand,
and in the following unmutilated extract which it gives
from the St. Louis Republican not only is a mask-like
face described, but it is intimated that there was no
back to the head. The face was so far from being
life-like that Mr. Cunningham had no hesitation in
shooting at it at once:—
There ifc was, a pale, ghostly countenance that looked as
though it might have belonged to a girl of seventeen at some
previous time in the world’s history. It did not look a bit like
real flesh and blood. Had it been possible to remove the front
of the cabinet suddenly, one never would have expected to see
any pinned-back gear about the nether portion’of the materiali¬
sation. It was a face that might have belonged to some Greek
maiden 2,000 years ago, and reminded one of the marble coun¬
tenance of some statue. So much of the figure as was visible
was suggestive of a lost collar-button a little lower down. All
who saw were fairly transfixed with astonishment. The fea¬
tures were perfectly clear and distinct, being illuminated by a
soft light. There was not the slightest movement of a muscle or
an eyelid that could be distinguished. While all were eagerly
gazing at the vision, there was an explosion that caused a rude
interruption of the imaginative reveries the more superstitious
had fallen into.
As soon as tho face appeared, Mr. A. B. Cunningham, at Mr.
Timkens’ request, had coolly sighted a small rifle at it. The
wide open eyes looked almost into the muzzle of the gun with¬
out- any sign of flinching. Without the tremor -of a muscle
Cunningham fired, apparently thinking no more of shooting a
couple of girls than a Comanche would. At the shot the face
remained steadfast. It was not scared, and did not wink. A
few seconds it remained as before, and then the curtain mys¬
teriously slid across and obscured it from view. After about
ten minutes’ waiting the medium asked for a glass of water.
This was given him, and a little time after he asked to be let
out.. When the door was opened he was found tied just as he
was left when the door was first closed. The cord had evidently
been strained a little, and that was all. Everybody said it was
a good thing, and nobody could tell how it was done if the spirits
did not do it.
No doubt if the face had “flinched,” or put on a
u scared ” look, the reporters would have thought the
seance more wonderful, and Mr. Cunningham would
have hesitated before firing. Everybody would have
given a great deal for a wink. Poor ghost!
There was no speculation in those orbs
That she did glare withal!
The Republican account goes on to say :—
The medium professed to be very much exhausted by th*
exhibition, and said ho wouldn’t do it again for anything. Th»
difficulties in the way of any imposition in this matter appear
to be very great. It would have been almost impossible for
any material for the production of the image as by a mask to
have been introduced into the cabinet. The medium was very
securely tied, and there was no possible chance for collusion on
tho part of a confederate. The bullet certainly went through
the aperture and through the face, whatever it was. This was
ascertained beyond a doubt by the finding of the ball, it having
passed through the back of the cabinet and embedded itself in
a board. The public can make their own explanation. The
Republican has none to offer.
According to the St. Louis Olobe, Mr. Timkens, who
proposed the test, thought the faces he had seen at the
aperture of the cabinet looked like masks :—
Tho tost was proposed by Mr. Henry Timkens, a well-known
and highly-respected carriage-maker, who became interested
in Spiritualism at some seances held by Mr. W. 0. Clark, and
that gentleman promptly accepted the challenge. The condi¬
tions were, in case of the production of a spirit sufficiently
materialised to be shot at, that the Spiritualist was to receive
50 dols. cash, the challenger being allowed certain conditions
hereafter described. “ If it is a spirit-face,” said Mr. Timkens,
“it capnot hurt it, and it will satisfy me that it is not you with
a mask on your face.”
The Olobe account goes on to say-
At 8.30 o’clock the door of the hall was closed against all
future comers, and the preliminary steps of the test taken care
of. The first thing to be looked after was the cabinet. Like
most of such structures, it consisted of six pieces only—four
sides, a bottom, and a top, tho article being about five and a
half feet long, two wide, and nearly seven high. In order that
closer inspection might be made, the cabinet had been taken
apart, and the six pieces—all made of thin pine lumber—laid
alongside on the floor. By means of a few hooks the pieces
were fastened in their groves, and the cabinet placed upon two
“ saw horses.” The front and back pieces had hinges in the
centre, forming doors for ingress and egress, while the front
was adorned with a hole near the top, about the size of a face,
over which a small black curtain was hung, adjusted by a
string fastened on the inside.
“I suppose ye’d like to search me,” said the medium, who
was an ordinary-looking man, with a heavy brown beard,
lengthening a pale and nervous face, in which a pair of brown
eyes were set deeply back under a rather high but not intelli¬
gent forehead.
“ I have only developed the materialisation within the past four
weeks,” he said, leading the way to an adjoining room, where he
could disrobe unseen by the threo or four ladies in the audience.
“ We have been holding seances at Mr. Timkens’ house. I have
developed pretty rapidly. The other night I produced what we
call my double. I was placed in the cabinet as naked as when
I was born, and tied, and a great light appeared in the cabinet,
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875.
so strong that the people thought that the house was on fire, and
were going to run out of the room, but they were called back,
and a man who crept up to the cabinet saw my double through
the window from the waist up. Before that I got to be able to
produce materialisations at the window, standing at one side of
the cabinet. How do I produce the materialisations ? Well,
by odic force we call it. It is an indescribable kind of emana¬
tion that goes out from us—something we know nothing about.
I feel a kind of prickly sensation, and then a feeling comes over
me like that produced in healing (I was a “ healer ” first), when,
as I tell them, the virtue goes out of me. I don’t feel much
pain, but it’s terrible when the emanations come back to me.
The materialisations are a part of myself.”
In the meantime the medium had divested himself of his
clothing. In that condition he was searched by Mr. Timkens,
who then handed him a suit he had obtained for the occasion,
consisting simply of a pair of linen pantaloons, a shirt, and a
pair of stockings, which he proceeded to put on. He was then
led back to the hall, where he said a few words to the audience,
telling them not to let him remain in the cabinet longer than
fifteen minutes after the firing of the rifle, but not to open the
cabinet before that time. He then took his place in the cabinet,
seating himself on the floor, his back resting against the side,
and his whole person in full view of the audience except his
feet. Mr. Timkens proceeded then, with the assistance of three
or four reporters, to make Clark fast. Holes were bored on
each side of each leg, above and below the knee-joints, where¬
upon pieces of seaming-cord were passed through each of the
four holes. They emerged below the cabinet-floor, where they
were securely tied and then fastened to the “ saw-bucks ” on
which the cabinet rested. Holes were also bored on each side
of the medium’s back, below the waist, and tied on the outside of
the cabinet, besides being secured to the saw-bucks. The
medium’s hands were separately bound and then tied together,
the cord remaining being made to pass through a hole in the
floor between his legs. Bound in this way, it appeared almost
impossible for Clark to move either leg, or to stir in any way
from a position that seemed painful.
“ Move out of the way there, if you please,” he said to one of
the self-constituting committee-men; “you draw from me too
heavily.” *
Expressions of pain pass over his face, and he appears to1 be
struggling with some mysterious force within him. “ It’s
coming,” he says, his feet moving uneasily in their bonds,
knocking against the floor and sides of the wooden structure.
Almost immediately afterwards his head begins to twitch con¬
vulsively, and knocks heavily against the fire-board at his back.
“ Come here,” he says to Mr. Tackett, who obeys. “ Put your
hand on my bead.” Mr. Tackett does so. The prisoner appears
easier; his head ceases its twitching, but the feet continue to
knock against the floor. The spirituality of the medium seems
to be overcome by the earthliness of Mr. Tackett’s nature, and
the fancy is seemingly entertained by both Tackett and the
prisoner. In a minute Mr. Tackett put his other hand also on
the medium, and the knocking and twitchings ceased.
Everything in the cabinet is apparently ready.
r Wait a minute,” said Mr. Timkens, “ I’ll fix the curtain
string where you can’t get at it any way.’ And he placed the
end of the string of the window, as the round hole is termed, at
the distance of at least ten feet from the medium. Nothing
further being necessary, the door of the cabinet is closed, and
the black curtain drawn over the window.
At the distance of fifteen feet from the cabinet, and directly
in front of the black curtain, has been placed a stand, where, by
means of a vice, a small breech-loading rifle is fastened, after a
load is placed in it, and levelled so that the ball will inevitably
pierce the curtain’s centre. Mr. A. B. Cunningham, of the
Globe-Democrat, who has been requested by Mr. Timkens to
fire the rifle, takes a seat directly behind the stand. Mr.
Cunningham is a crack shot, with a steady nerve. The rifle only
carries a small ball, but is loaded so as to send it easily through
an inch plank. In order to prevent the ball lodging in the wall,
a heavy plank is placed on the other side of the cabinet and
directly in the way of the shot. The ball would not perhaps
kill, but it would mar the beauty of any countenance that
received it.
It is five minutes after nine o’clock when the preliminaries
are finished and the seance really began. The lights of the main
chandelier are turned down, although Mr. Timkens keeps a coal
oil lamp burning near him, which sheds a dim glare on the
cabinet, and the black curtain, on which all eyes are fixed. In
the gloom voices are hushed to a whisper, and the noises on the
street become painfully audible. As the whispers die away the
silence becomes oppressive.
“ Sing something; it will help me,” said a voice from the
cabinet.
Some one in the audience strikes up the air—
Shall we gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river ?
Shall we gather at the river—
Then comes a knocking from the cabinet, the knocks clattering
apparently against all the sides. The first is loud and authori¬
tative, but the others become gradually more mild and gentle,
recalling to the mind 'The Raven—
“ Only this, and nothing more.”
Finding that the knocking ceased entirely, and that the
silence is disagreeable to the spirits, as well as to the company
present, Mr. Tackett strikes up “ The Star-Spangled Banner.”
There’s no response, and an apprehension is felt that the patriotic
air has lost its power upon the disembodied. “ Auld Lang Syne,”
as recalling scenes of the past, is next tried, but with similar
want of effect on the forgetful spirits. The silence continues
even when some one in the hall sings something about—
I am a chief in the forest so wild,
followed by the “ Old Camp Ground.”
The repertoire of the American portion of the audience being
exhausted, a German gentleman sings an operatic solo, his fine
sonorous bass voice filling the room, and delighting all present.
As it comes to a close, a quick, wild, painful cry is heard from
the cabinet, and all is still again.
The spirits appear obstinate and morose. Three quarters of
an hour pass away without anything more than a spasmodic
knock. When about all hope is given up, the curtain is sud¬
denly drawn aside, and a face appears at the window—the face
of a ghd with blue eyes and brown hair, just budding into
womanhood. The face is distinctly seen by all present.
“ Fire! ” said the voice in the cabinet.
The rifle is fired on the instant.
The face remains in the window perhaps a minute longer,
when it is concealed by the curtain, which is mysteriously
drawn to again. *
The rest may be told in a few words. In fifteen minutes the
medium is released, excited and exhausted with his labours.
An examination of the cabinet shows that the ball passed through
the seat opposite the window, and it is found in the plank hung
down beyond. The ropes are found as tense as when they
were first tied, and on the door being opened, the medium is
found securely bound. He ascribes the long lapse of time before
the appearance of the spirit to the fact that an Indian spirit
obtruded itself on him with a war whoop instead of his mother,
for whom he had asked when first placed in his cabinet. The
spirit that appeared, he says, was his cousin. The money was
paid by Mr. Timkens on the spot.
The questions at issue in this matter are serious
enough, because the narrative, in the form in which it
has been so widely published, almost challenges dis¬
believers to shoot at materialised spirits, and if they
do this at such seances as Mrs. Compton’s, a medium
will be killed. It is serious also if it proves that tricky
spirits can show masks at seances without the knowledge
of the medium, for if this took place when the medium
had not been bound and searched so thoroughly as in
the present instance, he would innocently be condemned
as an impostor.
Me. Olive has sent us a letter saying, “ Mrs. Olive’s
seances in London will be suspended until further notice.”
Passed to Spirit Life.—On Sunday morning, last
week, Captain Hudson, of Swansea, one of the oldest public
advocates of mesmerism in this country, passed to spirit life,
after a lingering illness of eight months.
“ The physician chosen of God,” says Van Helmont,
“is accompanied by many signs and wonders. . . . Com¬
passion will be his guide. His heart will possess truth, and his
intellect science. . . . Health will follow him. Love will
be his sister, and the truth of the Lord will illume his path.”
“ Ip it were given to our fleshly eyes to read the con¬
sciences of others, we should judge a man much more truly by
his dreams than by his thoughts. In thought there is an exer¬
cise of the will; in dreams there is none. Dreams, which are
spontaneous, take and keep, even when grotesque or ideal, the
form which belongs to our mind. . . . Our chimeras resem
ble us most nearly. Each one imagines the impossible and the
unknown according to his own inner nature.”— Victor Hugo.
Sept. 10, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
ilrobinctal jfretos.
BISHOP AUCKLAND.
On Sunday evening, September 5th, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan
gave an address at the Town Hall, Bishop Auckland, the sub¬
ject being “ The Present and Future Life,” in which she dwelt
upon the influence of this life upon man’s condition in the
next. The admission was free, and the hall, which will appa¬
rently hold six or seven hundred people, was filled to over¬
flowing by a very attentive audience, showing that interest is
taken in the subject of Spiritualism, and that the prominent''
posters about the town had not been lost sight of by the public.
Bishop Auckland Societt op Spiritualists.—There is a
Spiritualist society here which has been in existence eighteen
months, and numbers about thirty members, who have among
them about half-a-dozen mediums of different kinds, but during
the last month or so the meeting of circles has been sus¬
pended, the members devoting themselves more to summer enjoy¬
ments. Mr. Gibson, of South-street, is the honorary secretary;
on him nearly, all the work of the society falls, there being no
regularly appointed committee. Of course this does not repre¬
sent the extent of Spiritualism in the town, for privately it
exerts great influence. Among the well-known workers in the
cause are Messrs. F. Everett, Fawcett, Kilburn, Soutter, Hull,
and a number of others, whose open houses to honest inquirers,
and whose social position in the town, and willingness to satisfy
inquirers, gives it a hold of which it is impossible to foresee
the end.
NEWCASTLE.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUAL SOCIETY.
On Tuesday, August 24th, a seance was held at Weir’s-court,
when Mr. Crawford and another member were strapped to the
arms of two chairs and placed in the centre of the room. The
spectators present, numbering 15 or 18, formed a circle round
them with joined hands. Mr. Crawford was entranced by the
spirit who usually controls him; the other medium was con¬
trolled by one of the spirits who attends the circle and usually
controls Miss Fairlamb. The light was put out, and no pheno¬
mena occurred worth mentioning. After the lapse of about half an
hour two or three of the committee were admitted to the circle,
and on the lights being again extinguished one of the mediums
was soon heard to be loose, and his chair moving about, till it
eventually was placed close against the feet of Mr. Rhodes and
Mr. Bowman, a yard or more from its original position. Soon
afterwards the medium was heard speaking under control from
the direction of the ceiling; he was also knocking on the ceil¬
ing with his hands; on hearing this Mr. Rhodes and Mr.
Bowman, not feeling the feet of the medium as before between
their own feet, passed their hands (which were clasped, of
course) along the arms of the chair and then on to the back,
to ascertain if the medium were standing on it. Not finding
such to be the case, in passing their hands to and fro they
accidentally encountered the medium’s foot dangling like a
pendulum in the air; but on touching it the medium instantly
ceased talking, and dropped heavily into the chair. The
medium did not speak again for a few minutes, so it was
thought he might have been hurt by his fall; but on asking him
while he was still entranced, the spirit replied, “ No, but you
touched his feet.” No other .phenomena occurring, the gas was
lighted, and those present discussed the occurrences. That the
medium was up to the ceiling was evident from the fact of the
marks of the hands, and although standing on the back of the
chair with either or both legs was out of the question alto¬
gether, it was tried, and of course the chair overbalanced. The
only support was the chandelier, but on grasping that it of
course slid down and made a noise in so doing; yet there could
be no doubt of the medium having been suspended in the air,
taken on the evidence of the marks on the ceiling, the direction
of the voice, and the testimony of the two persons touching the
feet while he was hanging. Further, several present testified to
the medium having been carried and placed in a cupboard in the
room noiselessly, and with no means of clambering into it; this
took place a few weeks ago, so that taking all things into conside¬
ration, there was little or no room fordoubt. The controlling
spirit seemed to be fond of “trying his strength” as he terms
it, and seems to possess great power over his medium. For
instance, one evening while he was sitting in the circle, Mr.
Rhodes on his left hand and holding it, the spirit would speak
through his medium ; then in response to some remark he would
leave the medium with a jerk, and instantly would be jocularly
hammering away at the head of an individual who was sitting
some yards off. That Mr. Crawford will make a good physical
medium is certain. He is a young man of the labouring class,
quiet and unassuming in his manners; but if he is to be a first-
class physical medium he requires some one to look after him
and to advise him. Mr. Rhodes says—‘ ‘ The strapping to the
chairs is useless as a test, for I found that I could easily undo
one strap with my teeth.”
Trance Lectures.—Mrs. Tappan’s lectures were well
attended last Sunday, both in the afternoon and evening.
The hall will seat one thousand persons : it was nearly full in
the afternoon, and in the evening it was full to overflowing.
/Mr. T. P. Barkas took the chair on both occasions. The New¬
castle Society, with much forethought, entertained about fifty
persons to tea; those who came long distances were glad to
avail themselves of the opportunity. The local newspapers,
of which we have received many, are full of favourable notices
of Mrs. Tappan’s lectures, and one of them—T'he Critic—pub¬
lishes her likeness. Recently Mr. Brown, of Howden-le-Wear,
gave inspirationally in the trance a long poem on a subject
chosen by the audience.
Mr. Reddalls, a Secularist lecturer, attacked Spiritualism at
Newcastle last Sunday, and undertook to produce artificial
manifestations at a sham seance. The “ medium,” however,
refused to be tied with twine provided by the Spiritualists, and
some disturbance took place. About a hundred persons were
present, including Mr. Barkas and several Spiritualists, whose
utterifhces tended to the discomfiture of the lecturer.
NEW SHILDON.
New Shildon is situated a few miles from Bishop Auckland;
it has also a number of earnest Spiritualists, prominent among
whom is Mr. Metcalfe, of Mechanic-street, at whose circle there
are two trance mediums, viz., Mr. James Dunn, and Mr. William
Mansforth.
SOUTHPORT..
To the Editor of u The Spiritualist."
Mrs. Tappan in Southport.—Sir,—Will you kindly announce
in The Spiritualist that Mrs. Tappan will deliver an oration in
the Assembly Hall, Queen’s. Hotel, Southport, on the evening
of Tuesday, Sept. 21st, at eight o’clock. Subject, “ The Origin
and Destiny of the Human Spirit as Revealed by Modern
Spiritualism.” I believe that several residents in Southport take
an interest in (Spiritualism, but I have as yet failed to make
their acquaintance, so by this means I invite their kind co-opera¬
tion in our public effort. Mr. Martheze of Brighton, who is at
present residing here, has with his characteristic generosity and
kindness taken the matter in hand, so that I expect quite
a successful issue. John Lamont.
18, Lord-street, Southport
LEICESTER.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Dr. Eliphalet Nott.—Sir,—Permit mo to thank Mr. Lamont
through your columns for his kindly response to the query
regarding “ E. N.” I should have answered earlier, but I have
not been well of late, and yet have been much engaged. By
this post I intend writing Mr. Lamont for the loan of the volume
so very generously offered.—Olericus.
LIVERPOOL.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.—This society has
completed its arrangements with Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, who
will shortly deliver two orations in the Concert Hall, Lord Nel¬
son-street ; this hall has been nicely decorated, and will pre¬
sent a striking contrast as compared with its condition when
Mrs. Tappan last lectured there. An animated discussion still
rages here on the trance mediumship question ; the matter is
being well ventilated. Mr. John Priest occupied the platform of
the society on Sunday last in the absence of Mrs. Butterfield, of
Morley, who did not come as expected. The speaker gave the
listeners an able address on “ Spiritualism, the Necessity of the
Hour.” He glanced at the tendency of materialistic thought,
the labyrinths of speculative faiths, their unsatisfactory nature,
the covert doubt that seemed to linger even in the voluminous
publications of Christian Evidence Societies, the possibility of
their premises being incorrect, and their superstructure a house
of cards. He added that the Spiritualism of the ancients,
granting to it all it justly claimed, fell far short of answering
the pent-up aspirations of the human heart. Each age required
its evidences, and this scientific, utilitarian age wanted its facts—
wanted some objective manifestations proving the reality of
spirit and of life immortal. Mr. Priest spoke with the fervour
of one thoroughly convinced of the trathfulness of what he
advanced; he said that the time would come when man would
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875.
not regard God as a mere figure of speech, or spirit, soul, mind
as the mere expression of blind force; when man should have
demonstrated, not by the subjective sophisms of misty metaphy¬
sicians, but by tangible, objective realities, the nature of his
heaven-sent and heaven-destined character. This he firmly
believed Spiritualism in its later advent was eminently calcu¬
lated to do. He had been thoroughly convinced, not only at
home, but from home. The bold stand that Mr. John Priest
has taken in this matter does him credit. He "has been honestly
and boldly sceptical in matters spiritual, and publicly identified
with the secular movement in this town for many years.
' NORTH OF IRELAND.
A Ghost in Dungannon.—Dungannon, Thursday.—Some
time ago we had a wonderful sensation about the Cookstown
Ghost. Here we have had a-visit of a somewhat similar nature.
In Union-place, Dungannon, Dr. Dickon has lived for upwards
of forty years. He is now nearly eighty years of age. He and
his niece live together. About ten days ago some strange
occuirences took place—breaking windows in front of the house,
which is a large two-story, slated one. Watch was kept night
after night, and during this time panes of glass were broken,
and no trace of any person could be seen who might be supposed
to be the delinquent. Night after night it continued, and
during the day the windows were repaired. Again at night
they were broken. This proceeding has gone on for some time.
Some labouring men were employed for several nights to watch.
They were unable to discern any human being, and yet the
panes of glass were broken as usual. They at length tired,
and now for several nights the constabulary have been watching.
Some nights as many as eight in number have been engaged to
watch, and, notwithstanding all their vigilance, some of them
secreting themselves in gardens and lanes, ■ they are unable to
find out anything of how the smashing of panes is managed.
I have visited the place, and about nine . o’clock last night I
found four constables watching. I also visited it this morning,
and found that glass had been broken during the night. In one
window no less than six panes are broken. There are shutters
on the inside, and no marks of any . kind are to be seen upon
them. It is hoped that some of your numerous readers will
suggest some means by which this 'mystery may be solved.—
Correspondent of the Belfast News.
BLACKBURN.
The leaven of Spiritualism is spreading slowly but surely
through this manufacturing town, and some of the prominent
residents take a great interest in the subject. No public move¬
ment has yet been made, although private circles are held in
different parts of the town.
Mesmerism at the Exchange.—Messrs, Coates and Mere¬
dith have been giving a series of mesmeric entertainments in
the Exchange Hall. The first part consisted of a brief discourse
on the first principles of the science of mesmerism, after
which they operated upon a number of volunteers from the
audience. Altogether the entertainment was unusually instruc¬
tive, while, at the same time, it furnished an almost unbounded
store of merriment. Messrs. Coates and Meredith will continue
their stay for another week.
“ The magician who will acquire supernatural powers
must possess faith, love, and hope.”—Henry Cornelius Agrippa.
Soiree oe the National Association oe Spiritualists.
—Though no particular feature marked the soiree held at 38,
Great Russell-street, London, last Wednesday, yet, as a social
evening, it was one of the pleasantest ever spent at the rooms
of the Association. Among those present were: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S. ; Mr. C. Blackburn; Mr. Martin R. Smith ;
Mr. Keningale Cook ; Dr. J. M. Gully ; Dr. J. L. Nichols; Mr.
and Mrs. Everitt; Miss Everitt and Mr. F. Everitt; Mr. and
Mrs. T. Blyton; Miss Blyton; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Mr. E. D.
Rogers ; Mrs. Rogers and family ; Mr. and Mrs. Prichard ; Mi-.
D. H. Wilson,M.A.; Mr. G. R.Tapp; Mr. and Mrs. ArthurMaltby,
Mrs. Maltby and Miss Maltby ; Mr. and Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald and
Miss Fitz-Qerald; Mrs. J. J. Morse and Miss Morse; Mr. and Mrs.
Edmands ; the Misses Withall and Mr. Withall; Mr. and Mrs. E.
Corner; the Misses Corner; Mrs. Anderson; Mrs. and Miss
Cook ; Miss F. J. Theobald; Miss Houghton; Mr. J. Freeman :
Mr. Gimingham; Miss Casey; Mr. Biggs; Miss Clemes; Miss
Godfrey; Mr. E Lawrence; M. Vladimir Soloviof; M. A.
Herezka ; Miss Wing ; Mrs. Vesey and Mr. Vesey ; Miss Kis-
lingbury; and Mr. Selwood. Every room was ornamented and
perfumed with the choicest flowers, and the meeting was
characterised by harmony and goodwill.
THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
From the great interest shown in the National Conference
held in August last year, there is every reason to hope that the
one announced for November, which is a much more convenient
time of the year for most Londoners, and probably not less so
for country friends, will prove equally successful. Spiritualism
has spread to a considerable extent during the past year, espe¬
cially among the more educated classes of society. The litera¬
ture is every day being introduced into fresh circles, and the
phenomena are becoming more common in private families. In
fashionable society, where conventional topics fail to interest,
every one is ready to hear about Spiritualism, and each is grate¬
ful to his neighbour who will first venture to broach the subject.
The National Association of Spiritualists is becoming known as
a confederate body, organised for the purpose of advancing the
interests of Spiritualism, and has, by its frequent meetings held
for various purposes, not only attracted the notice of the press,
but has apparently been the means of producing a slightly im¬
proved modification of its tone in treating of the subject. At
all events, the notices in some of the daily papers of the confe¬
rence last year, and of the bazaar in May, have been a degx*ee
less abusive than was formerly the case. In spite of the events
in Paris, which have cast a temporary shadow over the cause,
Spiritualism holds on its course, and its most earnest workers
are perhaps at the present time more anxious to purify and
strengthen the movement from within than to make converts
from without. Some of the subjects proposed for the coming
sessions are of the highest importance, and it is essential to the
well-being of the movement that they should be fairly and
thoroughly discussed. In making choice of one for a paper,
however, it is not necessary that the writer restrict himself to
those named in the advertisement printed below; those
subjects are merely suggestive, and have purposely been left
somewhat broad in their scope.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will he held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W. C., from the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
'Wednesday^ November 3.—Opening Conversazione. Houn from f to
10.30 p.m.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 8 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects eor Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism amongst the
Working Clast es as a Religious Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
6. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—the best means of
securing its permanent establishment.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Tickets to Conversazione, Is. 6d. each.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE GRAMMAR SCHOOL, DALTON-IN-FORNESS.
Inclusive Terms: Forty Guineas per annum. A Reduction for
Brothers. Prospectus on Application. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., Pemb.
Coll., Oxon, Principal.
RIGHTON SPIRITUAL UNION ROOMS, 82, St.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there Is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him petsonally before nomination. All Spiritualist publica ions on sale.
JOHN BRAY, ffon. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
OR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m, to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
Sept. 10, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG ST, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
OX SAM AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
38, GKREAT ETJSSELL-STEEET, BLOOJ1SBUEY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
AM LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
i. formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.8. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, IT S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Cd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
r. Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un-
uestioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
cience1 and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology: Miracles and Science;
the Spirit'and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings !
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit: the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
;iS : on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature : Miracles and Pneumatoiogy;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. l2mo., 600 np. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,'employed
clairvoyants “to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
' sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
! clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
i on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair-
1 voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Threfe Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through, the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.’'
6s. Cd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK" (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his Ufa
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, Ids. cd.; cheap edition, 7s. Cd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
HOW AND WHY I.BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Dansljin, 4s. Cd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Cd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs; Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Cd.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Cd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Cd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Cd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle.’ 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s. .. .
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd. i .j,
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. cd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J, M. Peebles. 6s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
7s.'Cd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d. "
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd;
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway. M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Cd. .  
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1766. 2s. Cd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Record#
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 3s, Cd.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
, i.' of the “Family Herald,” (2 Yols.) 1C*.
§
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 10, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughketpeie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
n.
iv. „ - ■ > .
.. v.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arahula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People i
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial- Man, or Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Drain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology ,
Morning Lectures , _ .   .
s. d.
16 0
7
4 0
8 0
6 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ' . . . . . '. .
Religions of tne World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . ’ . .
Keys of the Creeds , . . . . ... . •
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism ......
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . V . . . .
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ......
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . v. . . .
Threading my Way, an Autohiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a. i). and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B. A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . • .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics.by James Legge, D.D,, LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; ah (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. .......
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . .
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools .......
f. <L
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 6
16 0
7 6
10 6
16 0
10 6
10 6
5 0
12 0
2 0
12 0
3 6
18 0
10 6
1 0
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
THE SOUL OP THINGS’;
OK, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES.
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these reVelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of fiction. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London W.C.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Any el in the
tenth state.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
X, ORTHODOX, by1 J. B. Angell. J’udge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet : “ There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
■ - Tut,He 2d. f_   & ,  
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
SUPERIOR FURNISHED APARTMENTS, Drawing-
room Floor, to be Let to a Gentleman dining out, in private house of
Lady and Gentleman, where there are no other lodgers or children, house
being larger than they require. Close to Redcliffe-gardens, South Kensing«
ton.—Apply for address to A. B., Spiritualist Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Contexts.
Chap. .—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.-—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Sonls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 16.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
ahove-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lano London E.C.
%
