AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 94.—(Yol. IY.—No. 24.) LONDON: JUNE 12, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
dTontents.
Notes on Church of England Doctrines. No. I.... ..7',... ... ... ... 277
Trance and Clairvoyant Messages.—The Hermit   ...  278
Spiritual Books in the "Wolverhampton Free Library 0   ...279
A Meeting on Employment for Women ... 1 ... ... ...   ... 280
The Seance at Mr. Serjeant Cox’s.—Facts versus Assertions 281
Transmigration and Reincarnation  ..V .v. ... ...    ... 281
Seances and Receptions at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory's'—The Medium-
ship of Miss Showers      ...  282
Lost at Sea    .... ... ... v..    282
Spiritual Mediums Burnt Alive       283
A Conference of Spiritualists in London     283
Mrs. Tappan in Halifax ... ... ..;      283
Count Pomar’s New Book.—The Mystery of Existence—a Vision 283
Poetry:—Life         ...  285
Correspondence:—Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s Performance, 285;
Mr. Serjeant Cox and his Theories, 286; A Private Seance in Man¬
chester,^^ ; Materialisation, 287; A Remarkable Dream  287
Experiences in Spiritualism. No. V. By the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York      288
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Ross-Ohurch, 280; The Royal Institution, 280; Spirit
Photographs, 287; Mrs. Fay’s Mediumship, 288; Examiners’ Exa¬
minations ... ..;  '. ...’'  ... ... ... ... 288
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on appUca-
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIYERP00L PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mx. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr* 9* L Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recieation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, ytadiug-rooms, the press, and spirit ccnununion.
JMWq 9$, 1874.
REDUCTION IN THE PRICE OF
THE SPIRITUALIST.
On and after Friday next, June 19th, the price
of The Spiritualist will he reduced to Twopence,
without any reduction in the size or quality of the
journal.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
. Council.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the m-di¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on thejfrsf Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Jomt-Stock Banks, but without
any stipufation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
fTIHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
JL THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Ty krman.
Price Threepence. ^To be had of W, H, Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers,
u
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, tp
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
* The Olrfects of this Association arc:— .
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all-
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true*and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at. the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Bichard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. B. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
librarian.—TAt. J. Cain, Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele,
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this AsSocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held, on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, 4c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members, Prospectus and Buies may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
B. Pearce, Hon. See.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FBEEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S court),
 NEWGATE STBEET, NE WOASTLE-QN-TYNE.
„ President,.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer,—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mx. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, t"1 commence at 7; at-d on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
Gn no account willanvone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meet'ngs, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitteis who form the circle at the time of
application.
;.. Tickets of Admission may he had of the Committee.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING HBBABY,: &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
Loudon, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
th'e vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalscon, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application, The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all SpirituaUatic Literature,
W. H. ipEBBY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
pH parts of the world. Subscription, Ss. per annum, exclusive of postage.'
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Ppmar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narra'ive Illustrations, An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., op. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM : its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edi'ion. With a ney Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg, Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Burvival
of the Fittest—Limits and I irectiops of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo.. pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. O. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. O. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members au opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Ph*>nomei a Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street. Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (.Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston. E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinai'y. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly: Life Membership, by donation ot £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL. President.
A M. GBEENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
YrawMrw.—Herbert N. Mozlby, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—ti, BEBNERS STBEET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Price 2s. 6<L
Glimpses of a brighter land.-^
Showing the harmony of things spii Huai with thirg" material.
"The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spirit
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London : Bailliere and Co., King William street, Strand.
E MEbSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cath6drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’Studes psychologies,
foude par Allan Kxrdec, appears on the 1st of every mon-h. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, ScieutiSc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs, Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,’*
Bev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.O., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE,
^ ””” an expose
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: J. Burns, 15,Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny. , .
eJrtj
ejA»
xt| imir Jliljitp rx\
VOLUJVIE FOUR. JMUJ4BEI\ TWEJNTY"FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 12th, 1874.
Spinlxialist J^tcrs^apr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE EOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
.Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communieations for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on Ihe previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist'1’ in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Ojir publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C-i should always be informed of such impediments and iri'egulam-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
NOTES ON CHURCH OF ENGLAND DOCTRINES.
no. ii
The following letter explains the conditions under
which the series of papers about to published is
given :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—The papers I sent you are very much at your service
for publication, if you should so think fit. During the first
year of my apprenticeship to Spiritualism I developed a phase
of writing and drawing mediumship which during the last
three years has been almost entirely in abeyance, and has
been superseded by what I often hear called “ Inspirational
Mediumship.” This I am told and believe will, as time goes
on, be more fully developed, as my unknown friends find that
they can thus convey to me the communications they wish to
impart with greater facility and accuracy than could be
attained by the mere guidance of my hand.
Writings produced under such circumstances cannot be
authenticated as being more than the mere outcome of the
writer’s own mind, and must depend for the effect they pro¬
duce entirely upon their intrinsic worth. I am fully conscious,
therefore, that I must personally be held responsible for faults
of composition, style, and argument; but I am sustained by
the conviction that they proceed from a higher source than
my own intellect, and by the hope that hereafter this may be
more fully made clear to me. Investigatob.
London, June 6th, 1874.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
2 he Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals;—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Oolorado.—S. A. Grant and Oo., 383, Lorimer-street.
New. Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Oo., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H G. Wynne, bookseller, &o., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F- W'. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-etreet.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thorntou, 19: Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hi 1.— Ur. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Olarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78 Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bm aswick-street.
Richmond.—JSdr. ,T. Gary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandrldge.—J. T. Sch des, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JTEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
The highest form of Spiritual teaching will be
derived from a union of high spiritual influence with
a cultivated human intellect.
Conjoined they will produce work which neither
could have executed alone.
Automatic writing, as a test, or for other special
purpose, may be of the utmost service, but it is beset
with so many difficulties that, except in rare instances,
it will prove to be unsatisfactory, and inferior in sub¬
stance and composition to the result of a combined
effort on the part of the medium and his guides.
Iii the automatic writing will be found, as a rule,
much extraneous matter, often crudely expressed^ which
the good sense of the educated medium would have
rejected as unworthy, while in purely human writings
will be found passions, prejudices, and ignorance of
Spiritual matters which the assistance of supra-mun-
dane teachers would have eliminated.
We observe that you desire to have it proved to you
whether the teaching which has been vouchsafed to you
is from within or from without; from the resources of.
your own nature, or from Spiritual agencies. For
whom do you require the proof? for yourself or for
others ?
If for yourself, surely you have it in your own know¬
ledge ! You are aware that at times you write with
great rapidity, and at others that you have sat for.
hours over the composition of a few lines. You know
that thoughts entirely new to you are at times flashed
into your mind from a source which you are fain to
acknowledge is “from without.”
If you seek this proof for others, we would say, How
can the value of a writing be increased or' diminished
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
by the individuality of the writer? Would Milton’s
Paradise Lost be a less noble epic if modern criticism
should discover that it had emanated from the brain
of a ploughman, or would it be enhanced in value or
beauty if it could be proved to be, what doubtless it
was, the inspired work of guardian spirits ?
Cease to weary your mind upon the subject of tests,
accept in grateful faith what you are inspired to write,
and cease not to lift up your prayers to the Divine
Father, that what you do write may be in accordance
with His will, and thus, inevitably, for the benefit of
those who care to read it.
There are doctrines of the Christian Church which
are a source of constant difficulty to all thoughtful
believers.
The critical examination which such men must bring
to bear upon them reveals the fact that great and irre¬
concilable differences exist between the various autho¬
ritative utterances of the Church, and the reason is
torn this way and that in a hopeless endeavour to form
a solid homogeneous creed out of these conflicting
elements.
The result has been that, unable to escape from the
dilemma, men grant a vacillating belief to both views
presented to them, laying great stress, according to
their idiosyncracies, upon the one, and setting aside the
other, to be believed indeed as a “ matter of faith,”
but granting to it no important position in what is
called “ the scheme of salvation.”
There is scarcely any one single dogma of the Church
which has not thus its opponents and adherents. The
marvel is, not indeed that there should be so much dis¬
cussion, but that such wondrous unanimity of belief
should still be found in the Church. She is split up,
it is true, into many factions, but there remains un¬
doubtedly a goodly number of the faithful who accept
her teaching as infallible.
The number of these is largely augmented in appear¬
ance, if not in fact, by those who are too indolent to
think for themselves, by others of weak and impressible
natures who are ever ready to repose on authoritative
utterances, others who regard with superstitious re¬
verence her antiquity.
Again, we find in her ranks those who are overawed
by the anathemas pronounced against the faithless, who
reject with terror any suggestion that their creed may
not be divine and finite; others who from force of
education and habit cling to the doctrines they have
been taught, and which their fathers-believed, although
in their Hearts far from giving them unqualified ac¬
ceptance.
Finally, among her most enthusiastic supporters are
the thoughtless, the worldly, and the hypocritical.
Good and bad in vast numbers are found united in
their support of a creed which can be satisfying and
conclusive but to (he few.
We think it more than probable that to this irrecon¬
cilability of Church doctrine may also be traced the
vast difference we recognise between the precept and
the practice of the majority of professing Christians.
We find in the Gospels a divine system of morality,
extending not only to the actions, but to the thoughts
and motions, demanding from its adherents purity of
life and complete renunciation of self. We find in the
Christian world a race of men outwardly 'professing be¬
lief in these doctrines, but systematically neglecting
and ignoring them in their daily lives.
It is thus evident that, beautiful as is the teaching
of the Gospels,: it has no real hold upon the hearts of
men, and we can find but one explanation of this
anomaly, viz., that they do not in truth believe it.
This discrepancy of doctrine and practice, too palpable
to be denied, is commonly assigned by the clergy to the
fact that the teaching of the Lord Jesus is so far above
the moral capacities of mankind that to fall short of it
is unavoidable.
We fully grant this, but would reply that this argu¬
ment in no way explains the want of any real effort to
attain the required standard, and we reiterate our be¬
lief that one of the main causes of this half-hearted and
lifeless acceptance of the Christian faith will be found
in the discrepancy of its teachings : first with regard to
one another, and secondly in relation to the inward and
divinely inspired utterances of the human reason.
These discrepancies of necessity render the creed
mysterious and incomprehensible, and as such, un¬
suited to the tone and capacity of modern minds.
The spirit of intellectual and critical enquiry which
is now insensibly permeating the entire world, can no
longer brook the authoritative assumption of the priest¬
hood to be the soul depositories of spiritual knowledge,
and the wise and earnest among men are learning to
think for themselves, and to criticise by the light of
modern erudition the doctrines which have so long been
deemed infallible. It is true that such minds belong
but to the few, but they will be found to be the leaven
which some day will influence the mass of mankind.
They study, compare, and criticise, and in learned
works give to the world the result of their investiga¬
tions. All that is false, all that is unworthy, all that
the reader cannot assimilate and digest must be even¬
tually revealed with the inevitable result that men will
gradually acquire courage not only to doubt, but even¬
tually to reject that which-is proved to them to be un¬
tenable.
TRANCE AND CLAIRVOYANT MESSAGES.
At a seance recently at the house of Mr. Earl Bird, 11, Park-
grove, Brixton, Mrs. Bird was the medium. The sitters pre¬
sent were Mr. Bird, Miss Bird, Miss Grace and Mr. Henry
Stevens.
THE HEEHIT.
Mrs. Bird, passing into the trance state, said:—
Passed by unnoticed, forgotten and unnoticed, forgotten by
all. I am disgusted. I’ll watch no longer. I will retreat
again into the deepest recesses of my own cell. Why should
I look upon the world, and the things of the world? There
is no pleasure in them. There is a canker in the heart of
every rose, eating and destroying its beauty 1 There is a viper
concealed beneath every green leaf! Do not touch the rose—
it will fall to pieces. Forsake your study of botany, for I tell
you there is a viper, though the leaf be green and its form
be perfect. Leave it alone, there is a blight on everything;
and the birds mock me with their song. The sun blinds, or
else the frost bites; everything is out of joint, and there is no
harmony. Do you see that bird on yonder bough? Poor
innocent! Sing your little song, and die ! 1 can see the
hawk, if you cannot ; foolish little warbler, you will soon fall,
and your song will be lost.
Go to, you area fool ; you will grow wiser some day; you
will pluck that fruit which looks so tempting and eo golden,
ami it shall be as bitter ashes to your taste. Eat and d'ink,
for to-morrow you die. But stay, I will chow you something ;
take your fill of pleasure afterwards; but look 1 Behold the
ocean, broad, wide, smooth, and blue ; it is false as hell 1
Look yonder—what is her name? Enterprise." She is
freighted with a cargo; there are some three hundred
souls on board; the decks are white, and her sails are
spiead ; the wind is fair, and water is beautiful. Such a
glorious land is there over the wide waters ! Such fortunes to
be made 1 Such hopes to be realised! How their hearts beat 1
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
June 12, 1874.
They are going to get rich, and come back again—to what ?
To perfect ease and enjoyment. A pretty sight, is it
not ? There is music on board, and merry feet go round
in the dance—the time will soon pass. See you that
old man there, with his wrinkled face and grey hair.
What has tempted him? Is it gold? No. Ah, now! now
you will believe me. There is a canker gnawing at the root;
disappointments meet you at every step. Sitting apart from
the gay and merry throng, the old man has but one thought—
one desire; he has lost all here, buried them one by one; but
there is his boy—his first-born—who left him many years ago;
and he pants and longs, his whole heart aches, for one more
sight of him. Will he realise it ? It is very little to ask, just
to see his son once more, only to hold him in his arms, to
say “ It is enough; now let me die; I have seen my son!” Will
he realise it? We shall see. I told you the water was
treacherous, and there was nothing to trust in—no happiness
anywhere. Stay, you can eat, drink, and be merry afterwards
—stay. It is very dark ; there is not a star to be seen, and
the moon, ashamed, has hidden. Lend your ears and hear,
for there is a shriek that rends the air. The ship is on fire !
He that sought to be rich, to gratify his own ambition; and
he that fled from poverty to seek a living; he that broke
from the hand of the law, and the innocent child that went
because its mother went; with the old man that went to save
his heart from breaking: all—all will share the same fate !
Their shrieks will all mingle together, and in the morning,
when the old routine of things comes round, this beautiful,
bright, and treacherous sea will have engulfed them all, and
look as smiling still!
I will give you another picture, if you like to come in; or
will you pass on? Oh ! he prefers to pass on. Let him go.
These are the experiences of my life. I never come to my cell
door and look abroad but my heart is pained, or my disgust
is excited, and I retire again.
It is Sunday morning. I will take another look. Perhaps
the aspect of things will be better to-day. No fear of my
being noticed; I am an old man, ill fed and ill clothed; and I
retired from the world years ago ; I am called eccentric, and a
hermit; very good,
I like the sun though, after all. I like him, and though
there is no fear of my being noticed, for I object to being seen,
yet I will risk it, because it is Sunday morning, and I like to
know how the world goes, on a Sunday.
Oh, stop those bells! What do they ring for ? Cannot
people go to pray without telling all the world ? I wish the
bells would cease their terrific clamour.
I will speak to this little boy. I am growing bold you see.
" Come here, child, and tell me what you go to church
for ? There, don’t be frightened, but tell me why you go to
church.” “ Because the parson says I shall go to a very bad
place if I don’t.” “Do not believe [it, my boy ; there is no
worse place than this.” Here comes the squire; I’ll draw
back a little; I wonder what he is going to church for.
Oh, he has got a pew there, with red curtains all round ; it is
right and proper that it should be occupied on Sundays ; that
pew is an ornament to the church, and he is an ornament to
the pew. I think the days of my youth have come back, for I
feel inclined to indulge myself this morning with a little secret
mirth in watching these church-goers. We will leave the
squire to enter his pew, the poor of the village falling back to
let him pass, while we try to ascertain what this lady
goes for. She is a widow, and her black weeds cling mourn¬
fully about her; there is a pained expression on her face,
an eager, watchful look in the eye ; an expression*of patient
waiting about her whole figure. I will follow her, in imagi¬
nation, and ascertain what the watching, eager look may
mean. It means this,—that she has been going to church for
five years regularly, waiting and watching for something from
the lips of the minister to satisfy her about the state after
death ; where the souls go to, and especially the soul of her
husband. But somehow, though the minister may be a very
good one in his way, he never comes to the point; never-gives
the ^woman what she desires; and she comes back empty as
she went. I know all this, because I have noted her face as
she returned, many, many times.
Ah! I will look once more and then retire.
He is late to church, finishing his toilet as he comes along,
giving the last touches to his hair, and setting his necktie ; he
has been at work until the last moment, in a little apartment
at the back, where he was not seen. He did not want, to go
to church; indeed, he wanted the money he would have
earned, for he is very poor. He will have to sit up at night
and work when others sleep; he works for the parson, and
for the squire, making their black cloth look shapeable and
proper to go to church in; he must go, or else they would
starve him quite ; that is why he goes to church.
If I walked abroad as other men do, I don’t think I should
go to church after that.
It is all husk—all vanity and vexation of spirit wherever I
look; and I turn from it, and shut my door and window close;
and ask what I was created for. To be made sport of ? Mocked
at every turn ? I shall lay me down to die. I wish I could
stay this cry in my heart, “What comes after death?” Will
existence go on, and what will it be ? Morning, noon, and
night, does this cry go out from my heart; I cannot still it or
keep it back. Do I wish to live? I wish I could say “ No.”
I ought to say “ No,” yet I cannot. I shall go on feeding on
husks ? If not, what is it ?
After a pause, Mrs. Bird said :—
I cannot endure it any longer; the atmosphere of that man’s
cell and the state of his mind is unbearable. 1 must ask
Lorenzo what it all means.
He tells me that this is a hermit. This is the condition of
his mind in earth life just before death.
He fears that he cannot do justice to the other side to-night,
as there are so many points of interest that he should like to
take up, which would extend over a longer period of time than
we have to-night. Seeing that we keep on our circle regularly,
he can take it up again from the point of his death, forming
the subject for another evening.
SPIRITUAL BOOKS IN THE WOLVERHAMPTON
FREE LIBRARY.
The following works on Spiritualism have been generously
presented by Mr. T. M. Simkiss to the Wolverhampton Free
Library. He has also printed a separate catalogue of these
books for circulation among the readers:—
6986 Report of the Committee of the London Dialectical
Society, appointed for the purpose of investigating Spiritualism.
5781 Twenty Years Record of Modern Spiritualism in
America, by Emma Hardinge.
8107 Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, by
Robert Dale Owen.
8022 The Debatable Land between this World and the Next,
by Robert Dale Owen.
7080 The Two Worlds; the Natural and the Spiritual, by
Thomas Shorter.
5899 History of the Supernatural in all Ages and Nations,
2 vols., by William Howitt.
7042 From Matter to Spirit, by Mrs. De Morgan, with a
preface by the late Professor De Morgan.
7990 Incidents in my Life, 2 vols , by D. D. Home.
7963 Where are the Dead ? by Fritz.
8139 to 8146 The Spiritual Magazine, London. New Series
from 1866 to 1874.
7094 Spirit Drawings. A personal narrative by W. M.
Wilkinson.
7090 Outlines of Ten Years Investigation into the Phenomena
of Modern Spiritualism, by T. P. Barkas.
7138 Blanchette, by Epes Sargeant.
7063 Plain Guide to Spiritualism, by U. Clark.
7102 Christian Spiritualism, by W. R. Bertolacci.
253 Scepticism and Spiritualism.
8299 The Seers of the Ages, by J. M. Peebles.
6983 The Healing of the Nations, by O. Linton, with ex¬
planatory appendix, by Judge Talmadge.
7070 The Question Settled, or Biblical and Modern Spirim
tualism, by Moses Hull.
7076 Discourses on Religion, Morals, and Metaphysics, by
Cora Hatch.
8160 Lectures on Theology, Nature, Ac., by Emma Hardinge.
7073 The Religion of Manhood, by J. H. Robinson.
6970 Critical History of the Doctrine of a Future Life, by
W. R. Alger.
7013 Man and His Relations, by S. Brittan.
8095 What am I? 2 vols., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law.
4185 The Night Side of Nature, by Mrs. C. Crowe.
7964 Apparitions, by Newton Crosland.
7100 A Tale of Eternity and other Paeins, by Gerald Massey.
7071 The Poet, and other Poems', by Ashe. WpT&gue.
7078 Poems from the Inner Life, by Lizzie Doten.
8061 Poems of Progress, by Lizzie Doten.
8335 Nature's Divine Revelations, by A. J. Davis.
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
8220 The Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse, by A. J.
Davis.
8330 The Present Age and Inner Life, by A. J. Davis.
8158 The Approaching Crisis, and the Philosophy of Special
Providences, by A. J. Davis.
8159 The Harmonial Man, and Free Thoughts concerning
Religion, by A. J. Davis.
8328 The Penetralia, by A. J. Davis.
8041 Answers to Questions, a Sequel to the Penetralia, by
A. J. Davis.
8040 Morning Lectures, by A. J. Davis.
7979 The Magic Staff, by A. J. Davis.
8051 The Great Harmonia, by A. J. Davis—
Vol. 1—The Physician.
8052 VoL 2—The Teacher,
8053 Vol. 3—The Seer.
8054 Vol. 4—The Reformer.
8055 Vol. 5—The Thinker.
6989 Researches into Magnetism, Electricity, Odic Force, &c.,
by Baron Von Reichenbach.
7057 Letters on Animal Magnetism, by the late Professor
Gregory.
7091 Animal Magnetism and Lucid Somnambulism, by
Edwin Lee, M.D.
7109 Animal Magnetism and Somnambulism, by A. Didier.
7044 Instructions in Animal Magnetism, by — Deleuze.
7137 Manual of Animal Magnetism, by Dr. Teste.
7081 Psychometric Researches, or Nature's Secrets, by
— Denton.
A MEETING ON EMPLOYMENT FOR WOMEN.
At the monthly meeting of the.Victoria Discussion Society,
held on Wednesday evening, June 3rd, at the Cavendish-'
rooms, Mortimer-street, under the presidency of the Earl of
Shaftesbury, a paper was read by Miss Emily Faithfull on
“ Women and Work,” on the occasion of the first issue by the
Victoria Press of a weekly newspaper of that name, which is
intended as a guide to the large number of women now
seeking to earn a livelihood. The hall was crowded to the
doors, and as many gentlemen as ladies were present. A
lively discussion followed the reading of the paper, in which
the ladies bore the largest share, as having more knowledge
of the subject and greater sympathy with those whom it
concerned.
Miss Faithfull said that the time was come when it was no
longer a question whether a woman may or can work—for all
could see only too plainly that she must work—but only, how
she was to work. Thousands are daily seeking employment
and cannot find it, because they are utterly unfit to undertake
often the simplest remunerative work, through want of proper
training. Those who come to the bureau which Miss Faithfull
has established in Praed-street for the purpose of helping
women to new employments, and are able, according to their
own account, and willing to do “ anything,” prove, when they
come to be questioned or to be tried, able to do nothing. The
fault does not lie with them, but with the culpable neglect of
parents who spend large sums on fitting their sons for com¬
mercial or professional careers, and leave their daughters to
pick up an education for themselves, which is generally of a
desultory description. Popular prejudice has decreed that
women need not and should not work for hire; therefore, when
they choose to strike out a path for themselves, they are sure
to be discouraged, and whatever the quality of their work, to
be paid less than men. Miss Faithfull said there was a great
opening for women as short-hand writers, foreign correspond¬
ents in commercial houses, assistants to solicitors, architects,
and others, but they must do their work thoroughly, and not
as amateurs. At the Prudential Insurance office, on Ludgate-
hill, a large number of women are employed filling in policies
and doing clerks’work. The argument that if women enter
into public life they will eschew matrimony was not worth
answering, because if it were so unhappy a state as to repel
all those who could maintain themselves, they would do well
to avoid it. She thought those who were capable of con¬
tributing towards the support of a home, were more suited to
enter that state. (Applause.)
Mr. Alsager Hill did not advise that women should enter too
largely into commercial and mechanical pursuits, because this
work could be done .by men, and the offices best filled by
women were left uns pplied; an undesirable rivalry and
antagonism were also introduced between the sexes. Thus
domestic service was too much neglected, and all the best
workers drained off into other employments. He should
recommend that ladies seeking a livelihood should become
housemaids; there could be nothing derogatory or repulsive
in dusting china, and it was certainly more womanly than
lifting heavy type, dirty with printer’s ink. (Laughter.)
A speaker said the reason ladies would not engage in
domestic work was that servant-life in this country is a kind
of modified imprisonment. Mistresses ought to allow their
servants more liberty, and not expect them to be always at
their beck and call. It is because they get more liberty that
young women prefer the harder work of serving in shops.
A lady said that women need not care about rivalry and
antagonism; there is antagonism between the sexes, and the
only way is for women to be determined, and push their way,
and then for both, like opposing armies when the battle is
over, to fraternise together. (Laughter and applause.)
Mrs. Stevenson said this was not a question of sex, but of
ability. Whoever did the work best, would in the end win the
day. She wished to say a few words on the health question.
Some people objected that women were not strong enough to
be doctors, for instance, but no one ever said they were not
strong enough for nursing, which was the most laborious and
trying of all work. She believed that hysteria, which is so
common among women, would greatly decrease if they had
something else to think of besides themselves, and how they
looked, and what people thought of them. A woman of
fashion spends as much time in governing a wardrobe as a
man does in governing a state. She should like on this occa¬
sion, before returning to America, to testify to the character of
.Miss Faithfull, as one who has proved her faith in the brother¬
hood of man by the unselfish interest she has shown in im¬
proving the condition of women.
Mr. Grainger said the destitution suffered by women in want
of employment was not altogether due to lack of education.
Women cannot be mjade to organise, and they will not keep to
business. Even wherq they have united for a common object,
as in the Ladies’ Club and the Working Women’s College,
they have split on the question of whether men shall be ad¬
mitted, which had nothing to do with the original object. He
thought women could do anything under direction, and could
bear even more physical fatigue than men, provided the work
were intermittent. In Brittany the largest butter-farm, and
in the South of France a large silk-farm, are both managed by
women with commercial success.
All the speakers alluded in the highest terms to the good
work done by Miss Faithful in helping women to greater in¬
dependence, and in opening up new fields of employment.*
Mrs. Ross-Chttrch has been unanimously elected a vice-
president of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Royal Institution'.— Professor W. 3L Clifford
recently delivered a Friday evening lecture at the Royal Insti¬
tution, on “ The Education of the People.” He accepted the
definition of education given by Mr. Herbert Spencer, namely,
that education is the application of past experience to new cir¬
cumstances, on the theory that nature is uniform, conse¬
quently the terms education and science were synonymous. By
education he did not mean the acquirement of knowledge, but
the gaining of the power to do something; for people might
store up plenty of information, yet have little education. In
learning anything new, all the brain has to be used, but when
once educated in the subject, the man can handle it instinc¬
tively, and without mental effort. He then proceeded to define
who he meant by ” the people,” and appealed to the census
returns for a definition; the returns showed what a large
number of people were engaged in the workshop, so he pro¬
ceeded to consider how the workshop could best be made a
means of education. He said that the introduction of
machinery tended more and more to produce subdivision of
labour, and this influence, which could not be resisted or
checked, tended also to keep a man working at one particular
small thing all his life; it tended to dwarf his intellect, and to
make him one-sided in character. He then proceeded to argue
that the general teaching of mechanical drawing in schools
would be of very great value to such workmen ; that it would
make them more useful and independent, and open up to them
several branches of industry instead of one. He quoted
extracts from the evidence given before the Parliamentary
Committee on Scientific Instruction, in support of these views.
* Why do not more women learn shorthand ? The art can be acquired
at home without any teacher but the books, andtheie is at present plenty of
demand for shorthand clerks. Pitman's system is the best; it is somewhat
harder to learn than some of the others; but what is thus learned by the
.head, is afterwards saved in work by the hand.—Ed.
June 12, 1874.
THE SPIETTUALIST.
281
THE SEANCE AT ME. SERJEANT COX’S,
PACTS YEBSCS ASSEBTIOES.
To the JSditoi' of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—You will oblige me if you can find room for the
^pclosed correspondence. ' Henry M. Dunphy.
My Deab Sebjeant Cox,—Your experience of Miss Showers
differs very much from mine; but this circumstance would not
have ifiduced me to trouble you with a Communication in
anticipation of some favourable opportunity of talking over
the matter and comparing notes, were it not that I found you
state in a letter addressed to the Medium of Saturday last,
that I “ saw only a gown and a handkerchief, not a face.”
1 presume you must have been misinformed or could not
have seen my letter in the Spiritualist of the previous week,
in which I distinctly affirmed that I saw Miss Showers in a
state of trance, and that the apparition held aside the curtain
in order that I might see her.
You seem also to be unaware of the circumstance that I
followed the apparition instantaneously behind the curtain,
and that although the figure had to my vision disappeared, it
spoke to me and touched me, while my hand rested on Miss
Showers’ head.
You cannot, I am sure, wish to misrepresent my experience;
but when you state that I ” saw only a gown and a handker¬
chief—not a face,” it is but due to Miss Showers that I should
put you in possession of the facts, and also inquire from you
upon what grounds you have thus described my experience to
be of so limited and perfunctory a character.—I am, dear
Serjeant Cox, very truly yours, Henby M. Bunphy.
28, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
25th May, 1874.
My Deab Sib,—I pray your pardon; I attributed to you Mr.
Coleman’s report, upon which the editor of the Spiritualist
himself observed that “ as the face of the medium was not
Visible on this occasion, we do hot see that this was a test
manifestation,”
I will correct it in next Medium* I had read your letters
and Coleman’s in immediate succession, and in writing con¬
fused them.
I do not contend that because Miss Showers was
Shamming in one case she did so in all—only it raises
grave suspicions and demands more complete proofs.
Crookes tried her with his electrical test, and tells me
if failed utterly; and Moses tried her, and tells me
he could prove nothing satisfactory. Mrs. Haweis
tells me that at a sitting at Mrs.-Gregory’s, “ Florence,” who
was standing with upturned eyes, suddenly turned them down
and around pn seeing a person moving as if going towards the
curtain; and Mrs. Showers herself has persistently affirmed
to me her belief that it was no ghost but the bodily form of
her daughter. Bat I want to know why some unequivocal
test is not tried. Why not mark the medium with burnt cork ?
Or why not throw some strong scent over the form, and see if
the medium smells of it afterwards. It seems to me that
there is a shrinking from reasonable detective tests, and a sort
of fear on the part Of the friends that an imposture may be
found out. As a lawyer you know that the best evidence pro-
curable is required even in unimportant matters—-but in
such a marvel as this science, nay, common sense should
rightly demand overwhelming evidence. Yet all kinds of
questionable- proofs are proffered when absolute proofs are to
be had. This is not as it should be, and truth and science are
alike entitled to insist upon such tests or a plain answer why
they are not adopted. This I cannot procure.—Yours truly,
S. Dunphy, Esq, Edwd. Wm. Cox.
Moat Mount, May 27.  
Beak Serjeant Cox,—I am sorry to see, by the last number
6f the Spiritualist, that my attempt to set you right as to my
experience of the mediumship of Miss Showers has had the
effect of making confusion worse confounded.
When I complained in my note of the 25 th of May that
you had wholly (but of course accidentally) misrepresented
me, you said you would send a correction to the editor; but
when that which you have written comes under my eye, I find
that although you admit having mistaken my experiences for
those of another person, you go on to say that my “evidence
dpes not carry the case much further.” To this I must really
object, chiefiy on the ground of want of exactitude in your
manner of describing and commenting, In justice to Miss
Showers, whose credit may be injured in the minds of those
who do not know her, but who may read your letters, I am
forced to protest against the extract which I have quoted,
especially as you must have had before you my letter, in
which I distinctly affirmed that I saw the apparition standing
by my side, and actually holding the curtain back in order
that I might at the same time see Miss Showers, and that I
did see Miss Showers.
How then can you say that my evidence does not carry the
matter further than the evidence of Mr. Coleman, who saw
“ only a form and a handkerchief? ” You then go on to say,
“ He ” (meaning myself) “ did not see Miss Showers and
Florence at the same time.” Surely I am entitled to know
upon what authority you make such a statement. You must
pardon me when I say that this is a very loose way of de¬
scribing evidence, and one which I feel persuaded would not
satisfy the jury to whom you refer in your letter of the 1st
instant.
I quite agree with you that the best evidence only ought to
be received when such astounding facts are put in issue, but
surely the public, to whom you appeal with so much earnest¬
ness, cannot be satisfied with the manner in which you state
your case, when it disagrees so much from fact and gravitates
so much in the direction of assertion ?
All I ask is that when my experiences are quoted, and when
the honour and credit of two ladies (whose veracity has never
been questioned) are called into question, the facts may be set
out with perfect accuracy. If this be not done, the deductions
must inevitably be erroneous.—I am, dear Serjeant Qox, faith¬
fully yours* Henby M. Dunphy.
June 7th, 1874,
P.S.—It may be of some interest to you to know that when
the apparition of Florence was standing at my side I cut off
a portion of a ringlet eight inches long from a head that
I was stupid enough to believe to be that of Miss. Showers,
and that when Miss Showers was subsequently awakened out
of her trance, the lock that I thus cut off was found to match
exactly and make up the full length of the ringlet that I had
cut in two.
TRANSMIGRATION AND REINCARNATION.
Though the Europeans do not hold the transmigra¬
tion of souls, yet one of their doctors has, with great
force of argument and great plausibility of reasoning,
endeavoured to prove that the bodies of animals are the
habitations of demons and wicked spirits, which are
obliged to reside in these prisons till the resurrection
pronounces their everlasting punishment; but are pre¬
viously condemned to suffer all the pains and hardships
inflicted upon them by man, or by each other, here.
If this be the case, it may frequently happen that
while we whip pigs to death, or boil live lobsters, we
are putting soffie old acquaintance, some near relation,
to excruciating tortures,* and are serving him up to the
very same table where he was once most welcome.
“Kabul,” says the Zendavesta, “was born on the
rushy banks of the river Mawra.; his possessions were
great, and his luxuries kept pace with the affluence of
his fortune; he hated the harmless brahmins, and
despised their holy religion; every day his table was
decked out with the flesh of a hundred different ani- •
mals, and his cooks had a hundred different ways of
dressing it, to solicit even satiety.
“ Notwithstanding all his eating, he did not arrive
at old age; he died of a surfeit, caused by intempe¬
rance ; upon this, his soul was carried off, in order to
take its trial before a select assembly of the souls of
those animals which his gluttony had caused to be slain,
and who were now appointed his judges.
“ He trembled before a tribunal, to every member of
which he had formerly acted as an unmerciful tyrant;
he sought for pity, but found none disposed to grant it.
‘ Does he not remember,’ cries the angry boar, ‘ to what
agoiiies I was put, not to satisfy his hunger, hut his
vanity? I. was first hunted to death, and my flesh
scarce thought worthy of coming once to his table.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
Were my advice followed, lie should do penance in the
shape of a hog, which in life he most resembled.’ ‘ I
am rather,’ cries a sheep upon the bench, ‘ for having
him suffer under the appearance of a lamb; we may
then send him through four or five transmigrations in
the space of a month.’ ‘ Were my voice of any weight
in the assembly,’ cries a calf, ‘ he should rather assume
such a form as mine; I was bled every day, in order to
make my flesh white, and at last killed without mercy.’
* Would it not be wiser,’ cries a hen, ‘ to cram him in
the shape of a fowl, and then smother him in his own
blood, as I was served?’ The majority of the assembly
were pleased with this punishment, and were going to
condemn him without further delay, when the ox rose
up to give his opinion; ‘ I am informed,’ says this
counsellor,e that the prisoner at the bar has left a wife
with child behind him. By my knowledge in divina¬
tion, I can foresee that this child will be a son,
decrepid, feeble, sickly—a plague to himself and all
about him. What say you, then, my companions, if
we condemn the father to animate the body of his own
son, and by this means make him feel in himself those
miseries his intemperance must otherwise have entailed
upon his posterity ?’ The whole court applauded the
ingenuity of his torture; they thanked him for his
advice. Kabul was driven once more to revisit the
earth; and his soul, in the body of his own son, passed
a period of thirty years, loaded with misery, anxiety,
and disease.”—Goldsmith’s “ Citizen of the World.”
SEANCES AND RECEPTIONS AT MRS.
MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
TS.E MEDItJMSHIP OE MISS SHOWEES.
Dukino the past week several seances have been held
at the residence of Mrs. L. Makdougall Gregory, 21,
Green - street, Grosvenor - square, W., through the
mediumship of Miss Showers, Mrs. and Miss Showers
being now in London, and the guests of Mrs. Gregory.
Mrs. Gregory has also held several receptions, at which
many Spiritualists were among those present.
Last Saturday at one of Mrs. Gregory’s receptions,
among the visitors present were the Countess of Caith¬
ness, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Miss Douglas, Mrs. and Miss
Ramsay, Count Pomar de Medina, Mrs. and Miss
Showers, Mr. W. Stainton Moses, Mr. Wedgwood,
General Brewster, Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Katherine
Poyntz, Mrs. Townley, the Rev. Mr. Haweis and Mrs.
Haweis, and Mr. I. T. Peele.
Last Sunday, at a private seance for materialisations
with Miss Showers, the spirits would not allow light to
fall upon the medium, but while the temporarily
materialised spirit Florence stood by the door of the
cabinet in full view, she allowed Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
barrister-at-law, to enter, to feel the head of Miss
Showers, and to cut a lock of hair therefrom. He did
so, and when Miss Showers came out of the cabinet,
the remainder of the lock was found upon her head,
and the severed piece was of the same colour, and
proper length.
Last Monday at another of Mrs. Gregory’s receptions,
among the guests present were Sir Charles Isham, Bart,,
Mr. T. H. Noyes, B.A., Mrs. and Miss Showers, Lord
Rayleigh, F.R.S., Mrs. Florence Marryatt Ross-Church,
the Countess of Caithness, Count Pomar, Mr. Stainton
Moses, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. H.M. Dunphy,‘Mrs. Ram¬
say; Mrs, Hamilton, of Sundrum, Mr. and Mrs. Silas,
Mrs. and Miss Henley, Mr. I. T. Peele, Mr. and Miss
Fletcher, Mrs. Inglis, and the two Misses Inglis, of
Red Hall, General Brewster, Mrs. Limond Strong, Mr.
Stackwell, Dr. Farquharson, Mr. George Craufurd, of
Auchinames, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Last Tuesday night there was another seance with
Miss Showers j no special tests were made or desired,
although, as on other occasions, some exact and careful
measurements of the height of the materialised spirit
who calls herself Florence were made. Her height is
found to vary at different seances-, but with bare feet
and her heels on the ground, she is usually three or four
inches taller than her medium. Another, and a less
dignified but more vivacious spirit, who gave the name
of Lenore, also appeared ; although the physical forms
of these spirits resemble each other to a great extent,
there are sensible points of difference between them, but
differences between the intelligences governing them are
more marked. Lenore gave away pieces of her hair in
small quantity; it had the dry crisp structure of that
given away recently by Katie King at Miss Cook’s seances.
The observers at this seance were Mrs. Gregory, Mrs.
Showers, Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D., and
Mrs. Speer, Mr. Thomas Hayle. M.D., Sir Charles
Isham, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and
the medium through whom the Spirit Teachings occa¬
sionally published in The Spiritualist are given.
LOST AT SEA.
Many of the readers of these pages will remember two
deeply interesting articles contributed to these pages by Mrs.
E. Louisa S. Nosworthy, of Avon Lea, Claughton, near Bir¬
kenhead, about the mediumship of her little daughter Beatrice,
who was so strangely affected by a haunted picture and some
haunted furniture. Mr. and Mrs. Nosworthy have recently
experienced a sad loss, one of their sons being a passenger in
the ill-fated ship, the British Admiral, as recorded in the
following paragraph, which we quote from the Liverpool
Daily Post:—
“ We [regret to learn that the name, Frederick E. Nos¬
worthy, wrongly included amongst the steerage passengers,
and given as that of a mechanic, in the list of those on board
the British Admiral, is that of a young gentleman of good
and well-known family amongst us, who was on his way to
Victoria, with excellent commercial prospects. Mr. Nosworthy
was a second-cabin passenger, and bore with him introduc¬
tions to all the most important firms in Melbourne. Amongst
the many losses of life attendant upon this sad disaster, none
can have been more affecting than this sudden extinction of
■high hopes. The young gentleman, whose loss is so sad a
bereavement to his domestic circle, was a grandson of Mr.
George Thompson, formerly member for the Tower Hamlets,
and of renown as an orator in the anti-slavery and anti-corn
law struggles.”
Mrs. Nosworthy informs us that after the disaster her son
could not get near his little sister to entrance her, he being
of a strong, vigorous, intensely sanguine and earth-enjoying
nature; but she could get news of him through other spirits,
and that news was of the most cheering and consoling de¬
scription. She says she went to Mrs. Dickinson, the clair¬
voyant and healing medium, who is now in Liverpool, and
there the spirit of the departed presented himself in such a
manner that the medium described him perfectly, with the
dress in which he sank, and which she recognised. He pre¬
sented himself visibly to the medium; he did not entrance
her, although he tried; but he spoke to her in a manner that
impressed her very strongly, for his earnestness to be recog¬
nised was intense. He was fully recognised, both by his
appearance and messages, which were tests to hi* mother.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
June 12, 1874.
SPIRITUAL MEDIUMS BURNT ALIYE.
A despatch in the New York Herald, dated City of
Mexico, May 18th, announces that Senor Castilla,
Alcade of Jacoho, in the State of Sinaloa, has officially
reported to the prefect of his district that he has
arrested, tried, and burned alive Jose Maria Bonilla
and his wife for sorcery. The official Diario confirms
the report of the outrage, and adds that the officer has
since been compelled to burn another old woman and
her son for the same cause.
This horrible and most outrageous case, if accurately
reported, should he brought under the notice of higher
authorities. Could not the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists ask its influential representative in
Madrid if he can do anything in the matter ?
A CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS IN LONDON.
Last Monday, at a Council meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, it was resolved—
“ That a Conference of Spiritualists, as agreed last year
at Liverpool, be held in London in the month of August
next.” It was further resolved-—“ That the cordial
thanks of the Council are hereby presented to the
speakers at the public meeting of the 21st ultimo, for
their services on that occasion, and that the secretaries
are instructed to notify this resolution to each of them.”
MRS. TAPPAN IN HALIFAX.
The Halifax Times of last Friday contains the following
paragraph:—
“ Inspirational” Lectures.—Under this startling heading an
American lady, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, delivered two
lectures in the Mechanics’ Hall, on Sunday afternoon and
evening, to very large audiences, and at the close she recited
a piece of impromptu poetry, the subject of this being also
selected by her audience. In the evening she delivered a
discourse on “What are the strongest proofs of man’s
immortality?” and by way of meeting the wishes of those who
were present she recited some poetry on ‘‘ The horrors of hell,”
and “The realms of the blest.” Both these lectures and the
poetry, whether there was any supernatural inspiration about
them or not, were remarkable alike for their beauty and
thought, and they were delivered with a modesty of manner
and eloquence of diction which bespoke the sympathy and
good will of the audience. There was, however, nothing about
either the poetry or the lectures which could not be accom¬
plished by a clever and gifted woman, such as Mrs. Tappan is
generally acknowledged to be. The act of stringing rhyming
lines together is by no means difficult, and though the verses
were very much finer than one might have reasonably expected
to hear, they could hardly be considered good enough to have
emanated from or been inspired by the ghostly visitants from
another hemisphere. Mrs. Tappan is evidently a well-read,
thoughtful woman, and that she is qualified to make excellent
use of her knowledge is evident, but that she should be able
to induce common sense people to believe that, because she is
a blue stocking of rather more delicate mould than the
generality of her sex, therefore she is an inspired seer (if there
are any seers of the feminine gender) is something which “ no
fellah can understand.”
The Halifax Courier of last Saturday, closes its report of
the same lecture as follows:—
It was then announced that subjects would be received for
an impromptu poem. The first sent up was ” The horrors of
hell.” Mrs. Tappan: That is a mild subject; will any
gentleman suggest another? The following were then
named:—“ The realms of the blest,” “ Faith, Hope, and
Charity,” “ Who are the redeemed?” and “Love.” A show
of hands made it apparent that the audience were about
equally divided in favour of “ The horrors of hell” and “ The
realms of the blest,” upon which Mrs. Tappan said “Suppose
we take both”—a suggestion which was received with applause.
The poetry was accordingly given, and afterwards a show of
hands was taken indicating that the meeting was of opinion
that Mrs. Tappan had fairly done what had been promised on
he posters on her behalf.
COUNT POMAR’S NEW BODE.
The first work written by Count Pomar de Medina
in the English language, entitled The Honeymoon ; a
Philosophical Romance, has just been published by
Messrs: Triibner and Co. Although Spiritualism is
not mentioned in the book, many of the philosophical
and religious opinions advocated by thoughtful inquirers
into the past and future state of man are advanced in its
pages; so it is a book which should be widely circu¬
lated. A series of letters by “ Lady C.” is appended
to the work, dealing with the questions of the nature
of matter and spirit, the divinity of Christ, and subjects
of like importance.
The following lengthy quotation is of considerable
interest, and shows that the book is well and thought¬
fully written:—
THE MYSTEEY OF EXISTENCE.—A VISION.
My mind was so full of the subjects we bad discussed during
the day, that I still continued to meditate on them. The
train of ideas which had run through my head for the last
few days, now flowed on with a vividness and force increased
by the stillness and solitude of the scene.
” What can be the great mystery of our existence?” I ex¬
claimed. “ We see every day new men born and die : but we
know not whence they came nor whither they go; and even
this life is so uncertain, so changeable. Chance seems to be
its only director, and yet some law or other must govern its
perpetual changes. Life would be perfect if it would only last.
But it will not last. I try to fancy to myself that Conchita
and I shall live here for ever, together, happy, the one for the
other. But this is only a dream, it cannot be, life will not
last; when we must enjoy it, then it is taken away from us.
I often hear people say, that this is only a preparatory state
for another and a truer life. But it seems to. me that if such
were the case, men would only have one thought, and one
occupation in it, which would be to prepare themselves for
this future life. But this is not the case; we live as if this
were the true, the only life ; and it is because we are ignorant
of the future; if we only knew what was to be our future
destiny, we should certainly spend our lives in quite a different
way. ‘ I do not know,’ said Pascal, * who has put me in the
world, nor what is the world, nor what I am myself. l am in
complete ignorance of all things: I do not know what is my
body, nor my soul, nor my senses; and this part of my being
that is thus reasoning about itself, is as unknown to me as the
rest.’
“ I called up images of this kind in my imagination. ‘ We
seef I said, ‘race after race of men come into the world, live
therein, die, and then disappear, never more to be seen or
heard of again ; and yet one race succeeds another so closely,
and one family takes up the civilisation left by the preceding
one, in such a way that we might very easily be led to suppose
that they all are one and the same.’ ”
My abstraction then became deeper, the full moon of July
shone in all her brilliancy between the trees, the waters
seemed as molteh silver running beneath my feet, little by
little the light of the moon became more and more vague, the
whole scene seemed to vanish before my sight, and to leave
only the pale silvery rays of the moon. The roar of the
waterfall was changed into a soft melodious music. I felt my¬
self going to sleep. But it was not a natural sleep, it seemed
more like a trance than anything else. I had never experi¬
enced this strange sensation before, and yet I suppose it must
have been a dream.
I presently heard a sweet voice that seemed to come from
the waters below me. I tried to open my eyes, but could not.
The voice said in a distinct but low tone, “ I am a spirit who
was once a man; and I know that though dead, I have never
really died.”
I tried to ask a question of this strange being whom I could
not see, but it answered my thought, even before I could open
my mouth to speak.
ia| You want to know,” said the voice, “ the object and the
plan of creation, the scheme of the universe; you have the
folly to believe that you could understand the laws of God if
they were revealed to you 1 Oh! ignorant and vain mortal 1
When millions of ages are necessary in order that a mere
spirit may become an intelligence, you pretend to reach your
final destination, the supreme goodness and the supreme
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
knowledge, all at once, regardless of all the influences of
space and time 1 I am not a man, I am an intelligence,
superior to man, but inferior to the angels of God. Yet I
know a great deal that I can teach you. I will show you how
ignorant you are. Submit your whole existence to me for the
moment, part with your human life, and mingle yourself in
mine, then I shall be able to carry you back through the past
ages and show you your past life ; yea, your past life. Yield
your mind wholly to my influence.”
The voice ceased. I felt pains all over me, as if my spirit
was separating itself from my body. I felt freer and freer, at
last I lost all consciousness. When I came back to my senses,
I saw a wild, desolate scene before my eyes. It could not
. have been in this earth, for in it everything seemed of one
colour, a dim, hazy grey, such as we sometimes behold in the
twilight of a misty morning. The whole country before me
appeared covered with marshes. I saw wild animals of every
description; among the most perfect of these I noticed one
particularly, its shape was between that of a monkey and a
man, he was, however, covered with hair. I looked at him
closely, and suddenly I gave a cry of horror. ... I had recog¬
nised myself in this horrible brute!
“ You are frightened at your own self !” said the voice of
my invisible guide, ” just like man ! This is your first appear¬
ance upon the earth in the initial state of humanity, for the
country, you see, is on your own earth. You have lately been
developed out of the forces of nature; those animals yonder
Were your predecessors, your human career begins.” The
sweet voiced ceased, I was again left in an unconscious state.
When the darkness vanished, the scene before my eyes was
Still the same; but the sun was now beginning to throw a
lurid glare over the marshes. I then saw forests of enormous
trees, but the same wild animals as before. I saw myself—
this time, a being similar to the South African savages of the
present day. I was naked, my skin was black; I had in my
hand a sharp pointed axe, made of a fish bone, with which I
was trying to kill a poor little animal that the Storm had
placed in my path*. I killed it at last, and, to my horror, I
began tot1 at it faw ! I shut my eyes.
When I again opened them I beheld quite a different scene.
, The landscape before me was a wild one, which, however, pos¬
sessed many natural beauties; it was a scene such as I had
often witnessed in the West Indies. The country seemed to
be populated with men and women of all ages, who appeared
to be in the earliest stage of civilisation. I again saw myself,
covered this time with skins of animals, kneeling before the
rising sun, to which I was rendering worship.
“ This was your first act of adoration,” said the voice that
still sounded in my ear as the murmur of the waters of
Aberfeldy. “ It is my purpose to show you, in a succession of
visions, the progress you have made, both in your physical
and your moral condition. I will show you the different civi¬
lisations through which you have passed, and the different
religions to which you have belonged. Showing you your
past life, I intend to teach you that of humanity in
general, whose history has been more or less like your
own, for all men must pass through every stage of civi¬
lisation before they can attain perfection. This is the first
stage—man appears, for the first time, upon the earth ;
he is ignorant, and his physical as well as his moral con¬
dition is, as yet, in a state of infancy.- He is little less than
a savage; he is ignorant of the causes that produce the phe¬
nomena which, to-day, seem so natural to him ; he is ignorant
of the cause of the tempest-; the eclipses are, to him, incom¬
prehensible marvels; he attributes a supernatural cause to
everything that is beyond his weak and uncultivated intel¬
ligence. Fear is also united to this strange feeling, and
in his ignorance, he imagines that if he could win over
the elements to his side, he might do better than the
first inhabitants of the planet, who called supernatural the
causes which produced those phenomena that he could not
understand. Those phenomena soon became gods, and man,
in his ignorant terror of everything supernatural, worshipped
successively, the earth, the sea, the sky. You behold, now,
the first worship—that of the sun, the lord of the day. You
see yourself advancing upon your knees over the ground; see,
you cut branches of the dead trees, and you place upon them
a poor innocent lamb ; you are going to perform a sacrifice, in
order to obtain for yourself and yours the protection of
the sun.
” But centuries pass, you die and are again born upon
earth—that is to say that when your body is getting old and
useless, you change it for another, and thus obtain new, soft,
and more impressionable organs; this you, in your ignorance,1
have called death and birth; it is only the natural conse¬
quences of time and eternal progress.”
I now beheld another scene; I saw myself again reaping
and gleaning corn, and then making a sort of bread out of it.
Upon a hill I saw a rude primitive kind of cottage, at the door
of which a wooden altar sent a column of smoke towards the
blue sky. The voice of the Genius said then, " Passing
through the centuries you, or rather your race, have discovered
that those phenomena you once worshipped were only the
effects of unknown but superior causes. This discovery has
changed your primitive fetichism into an ideal polytheism.
Before this change every object had been deified, and each man
worshipped a great multitude of fetiches or idols, to which he
rendered sacrifices ; with time, however, those material objects
were converted into ideas represented by symbols, thus you see
before the door of your little cottage the altar on which you
sacrifice, as did Abraham to Jehovah, to the God who has suc¬
ceeded in your heart to the idols you worshipped in your
former existences. But this change has not taken place all
of a sudden, like all those other changes you see which take
place in the religions of this world; it was not effected in one
day, but was the work of centuries, for it is only as we go on
progressing, that we can admit new truths to take the place
of the old one in our hearts. Nothing in natme takes place
on a sudden, things change, but in such a way that it would
be impossible for any one to draw a line between any
two religions of those that have succeeded one another
in this planet, and to say where one ends and the
other begins; it would be impossible to tell the precise
moment when a man abandons one opinion for another. The
difference is only to be found in the centre, the outer extremi¬
ties touch one another, whatever man may say to the contrary;
for in his ignorance he believes that everything takes place by
means of catastrophes; he forgets that in nature everything
goes on smoothly, that one tbing grows naturally out of that
which precedes it, and that we do not jump from one conclu¬
sion to another. So that he takes what in reality is only
a single link of a grand chain of transitions, as one great truth
that outweighs and eclipses the whole series of facts to which
it belongs.”
Again, another scene broke upon my vision. I saw a stately
magnificent temple, a great crowd of men and women beauti¬
fully dressed in purple and gold, kneeling before the great
altar. In one of the men I recognised myself, in one of the
women—Conchita.
“ The love which you have for your wife is not a new love,”
said the spirit $ “you have known her before, in other stages
of existence, and you have loved her; she was then your wife,
as she is now your bride, for love can never die, but you are
too material yet to comprehend the great laws that govern
these things; you know the effects, but you ignore the causes
which produce them. In the scene before you you behold
Greece in all her splendour ; as civilisation goes on advancing,
you will see human life more replete with power and activity;
paper and the art of writing have been discovered, they have
gradually arisen out of the hieroglyphics of the Egyptian
civilisation which preceded this ; steel has taken the place of
iron, as iron took the place of bronze. Marble you see now
employed in building instead of mud, and the primitive little
cottage of your former existence has been converted into
a magnificent palace, where you can enjoy all the privileges
that this state of civilisation can afford you. But you are far
from being happy yet; you are still ignorant and selfish. You
do not abstain from crime, for you know not its consequences;
you love yourself better than your God, and you hate your
fellow creatures; it is necessary you should pass through
another life before you can be brought to comprehend
all this.”
I again lost all consciousness; another vision dawned before
my eyes. It was Borne, the magnificent Borne of the Cassars.
I saw a great crowd of people, and in the midst of them a tall
handsome man addressing the multitude. Some listened to
him with pleasure, others laughed at him.
” The man you see before you,” said the voice of my guide,
“ is Peter, the apostle of Christianity. The Pagan worship is
being done away with. This world has grown too enlightened
to believe still in the gods of mythology; philosophy has
altered the opinions of most men. Socrates, Plato, Pythagoras,
have worked marvels; but philosophy is not enough, men
need something more tangible than mere ideas ; the learned
few alone can receive those advanced doctrines; the mass of
the people need a new religion. Jesus came upon earth, and
was the first to preach this new faith, but all men are not
advanced enough to comprehend His beautiful religion. He
June 12, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
becomes the first sacrifice to this new creed, for all pioneers
must bear the brunt of the battle, and most reformers perish
in behalf of their doctrines; and His blood sanctified His
teachings. With time, Rome, the mother of modern civilisa¬
tion, takes up this new faith ; the philosophy of Greece and
Rome becomes embodied in the doctrines of the new Church ;
the Rome of the Popes succeeds that of the Caesars, and under
their influence sciences and art prosper. You, amongst others,
adopt this new creed, and with its beautiful doctrines you
become a new man. You have had now so many existences
that you begin to comprehend the true meaning of an early
life.’*
The scene again changed. Loch Lomond appeared before
me in all its beauty ; the moon shone brightly upon two figures
that were walking arm in arm by its shores. In them I recog¬
nised myself and Conchita. “ You have now come to your
present state of being; the seeds you have sown in your past
existences begin now to give tbeir fruit, you and your love
have become at last one; your paths have lain for a long
time side by side, but they have not merged into one till
now. Compare your present condition with that which you
presented the day you first appeared on this earth. Re¬
member the uncultivated savage, and behold the modern
philosopher! Your career has not been a very glorious
one; it has been full of pains and sorrows, troubles and
trials, but now you see that it has all been for your good; if
it had not been for them you would never have been what
you now are—suffering is a good thing; out of suffering
arises all that is most pure, most holy, most perfect. Both
moral and physical suffering exalt the soul—they raise the
mind above surrounding objects and purify it. You are too
material yet to understand the benefits derived from re¬
incarnation—know only that it is one of the laws of nature,
that is enough for you now. I see you want to know if
you will live again upon this earth.—I have shown you
your past, you must now 'guess at your future.—You know
now your destiny and the object of your life ; to perfect
yourself, to become as good as possible, as wise as possible,
and, above all, to learn to love and to worship God in spirit
and in truth. I see in your thought that you want to know
which is the true religion. Oh, ignorant man! have you
beheld the past history of humanity and not guessed this.
All religions are true. The God of the savage is the God
of the civilised European, only that the one worshipped
him in the sun and the other in his mind. The Brahmin
is right in sacrificing to Brahma, and you are right in wor¬
shipping God as a Catholic. As man goes on advancing
his ideas change, but God does not change. Christianity is
the most modern religion, and therefore the most suited to
your present state of being. You also want to know why
the law of a succession of existences has not before been
taught unto men ? I answer you it has, many and many a
time, but men were then not enough advanced to understand
it. Buddha taught it in India, and his disciples laughed at it.
Pythagoras tried to teach it in ancient Greece, but his fol¬
lowers misunderstood him, and some even killed themselves
so as to be born again in a different state of society. Christ
also preached this doctrine in Judea, but the world did not
understand Him. Even now you are hardly enough advanced
to comprehend all its consequences, and it is for this reason
that it has not been allowed to be believed in the world. Yet
you know enough now to direct your course of life towards
the truth. The better you are in this life, the happier you
will be in the next, for God is just, and gives to all men what
they deserve.
“lam also in a state of progression ; but I am no longer a
man. I have lived several times upon the earth, not precisely
upon yours, for that was not created when I was in the human
state of being, but in other worlds of a similar nature. Now
1 am an intelligence, I dwell in light, and know what you, in
your ignorance, would call 11 all things,” but what, in reality,
only shows me how little I do know. To obey and to love
God I feel to be my duty. I know His laws, I admire His
justice, I worship Him in spirit and in truth; this is as much
as any being can do, and I am happy, happier than you can
have any idea of, for I know that God loves me.”
The melodious voice of my invisible guide ceased. I again
heard the roar of the waterfall below me. I opened my eyes,
I felt as if I had awakened from a long dream, the moon
had disappeared, the scene was in perfect darkness. I
got up and made my way, as best I could, to the hotel. As I
walked, it seemed to me as if I heard the voice of the
spirit, who still whispered in my ear, “ Progress is the law of
QodP
LIFE.
I wo lovers by a moss-grown spring:
They leaned soft cheeks together there,
Mingled the dark and sunny hai’",
And heard the wooing thrushes sing.
O budding time!
0 love’s blest prime
Two wedded from the portal stept:
'The bells made happv caroilings.
The air was sofr. as fanning wings,
White petals on the pathway slept.
O pure-eyed bride!
0 tender pride!
Two faces o’er a cradle bent 1
Two hands above tie head were locked :
These pressed each other while they rocked,
Those watched a life that love had sent,
O solemn hour 1
0 hidden power!
Two parents by the evening Are:
The red light fell about thsir knees
On hea^s that rose bv slow degrees
Like buds upon the lily spire.
O patient life!
0 tender strife!
The two still sat together there.
The red light shone about their knees;
But all the heads by slow degrees
Had gone and left that lonely pair.
0 vo' age fast!
O yani-ihed past!
The red light shone upon the floor,
And made the space between them wide;
They drew their chaira up side by side,
Their pale cheeks joined, and sa’d ‘-Once more !”
O memories 1
O past that is 1
—George Eliot.
©arrespontrence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
MESSES. MA.SKELYNE AND COOKE’S PERFORMANCE.
Sir,—May I ask the manager of the entertainment given at
the Egyptian Hall, and purporting (as per walking advertise¬
ment) to be a “ Death blow to Spiritualism,” whether
the high priest of that entertainment, Mr. Maskelyne, will go
to an unknown private house, by invitation; give his word of
honour that he has no apparatus of any kind about his
person ; or indeed anything that can be turned to account;
and will he also, if requested, allow himself to be searched, as
a professional medium will? And then, will he sit at a circle
of investigators, and allow each foot to be tied to the legs of a
chair, or placed against the side of a foot of each person
between whom he shall sit, and by whom his hands shall be
firmly held ? If so, what phenomena will he undertake
to produce? The paraphernalia at the Egyptian Hall, and
the mathematical precision and certainty with which these
so-called “ Exposures of Spiritualism ” are regularly produced,
with, for aught I or any one else know, any number of con¬
federates behind the scenes, constitute, I imagine, a ready
answer to the question. As Mr. W. Morton writes to The
Spiritualist, I presume that he reads it. If so, perhaps he will
give your readers some information as to the meaning of the
excessively offensive and unusual epithet which has long
appeared in the daily advertisements. I allude to the expres¬
sion 11 spiritualistic humbugs?" Does he apply this oppro¬
brious term to professional mediums only, or to tttose whom
Messrs. Maskelyne and Gooke doubtless consider to be their
dupes. If to the latter, are the three fellows of the
Royal Society, Messrs. Crookes, Yarley, and Alfred Wallace
“ Spiritualistic humbugs.” Their last contributions to the
subject, and their investigations thereon, are a sufficient
answer. Are all private mediums humbugs ? If Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke imagine them to be so, they can have
very little knowledge of those circles, at which a spirit of
honest and truthful investigation, under every test condition,
and with a private medium, sans peur et sans reproche, has been
the means of eliciting over and over again, phenomena which,
although absolutely bona fide, undoubtedly reverse all our pre¬
viously conceived notions of the laws of matter. Since
writing the above, I find in this morning’s Daily Telegraph
another of those untruthful advertisements which Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke have had the bad taste to issue, and in
which they not only insult the common sense of thousands tif
believers in Spiritualistic phenomena, but also the common
286
THEr SPIRITUALIST.
JuifE 12, 1874,
sense of the r many clergymen ’’ who favour Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke with congratulatory letters. Have these conjurors
really the face to affirm that because they can imitate some¬
thing, that something must of necessity be trickery, because it
can be imitated ? If so, Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s
estimate of the intelligence of ;their audiences, must be on
a par with their estimate of Spiritualists likewise. These
exhibitors have passed the bounds of truth and decency, and
there can be no longer any occasion for mincing words respect¬
ing them, although it may suit their purpose to inform their
gaping crowds of the bodily fear they pretend to stand in, from
the probable violence of exasperated Spiritualists. Pshaw !
A “ Spiritualistic Humbug,” according to
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke.
MR. SERJEANT COX AND HJS THEORIES.
Sir,—I have no doubt Mr. Serjeant Cox’s last assertions,
inferences, and theories, will be answered by some one more
immediately concerned and better qualified than myself. But
as an old student of the subject, I protest against his attempt
to lay down the^law for the guidance of those who are testing
spirit manifestations.
Serjeant Cox pertinaciously' insists upon examining the
phenomena which occur, under his own prescribed conditions,
which, if not granted, he thinks throws doubt upon the whole
testimony of all who have acknowledged the reality of Mr.
Crookes’s recent experiments. And how would Serjeant Cox
proceed to test the separate individualities of Florrie Cook the
medium, and Katie King the spirit ? He says, by the simplest
of all means, making a mark with burnt cork on the forehead
of the medium, which shall not appear on the forehead of the
spirit.
But suppose the mark should appear upon both, would he
be reasonably justified in ignoring all the testimony given by
Mr. Crookes and the many intelligent men and women who
have spoken of the distinct difference in dress and other ap¬
pearances between the two, which could be only brought about
by Miss Cook possessing the highest art of magic. Or would
he rely upon a favourite theory of his, that Mr. Crookes and
his supporters had been biologised by this child (who is not
accused of having confederates), and that they had been made
to believe they had seen what they really had never seen at
all! Now, I, like Serjeant Cox, appeal “ to all rational
readers,” to say whether such an hypothesis would not
gravely suggest that there is something wrong in the brain of
a man who would submit such an explanation to account for
the marvellous facts attested by them. But this hypothesis, if
he be consistent with himself, is really what he does offer.
When I had given my evidence before the Dialectical Society,
Mr. Serjeant Cox—who took a prominent part injthat Society’s
proceedings—asked me in reference to some remarkable
statements which I had made, whether I knew anything of
biology, and whether I did not think I was under that strange
influence at the time I thought the drawings and other
matters were produced, or in other words, whether the fact I
spoke of was not a fact, but a mere delusion of the senses ?
Now, this question was seriously put by the learned Serjeant,
to a man of his own years, having the’credit, as he knew, of
considerable experience in psychological subjects.
I replied to his question by saying “ I knew all that was
known about mesmerism, clairvoyance, and kindred subjects,
but if he thought I was under a power which deprived me of
my natural senses, the same influence had continued to that
moment, for I had the identical drawings in my possession,
certified as to the conditions by Judge Edmonds, Mr. J.
Gurney, the eminent artist of New York, myself and others.
Fortunately for Mr. Crookes and his followers, I took the
liberty of asking the learned Serjeant a question, the reply to
which is significant, and, as the Americans say, proves his
” stand point.”
“ Suppose,” I said, “that you, Serjeant Cox, had seen, what I
say I have seen, could any one persuade you that you really
had not seen the particular fact?” and he replied, “I don’t
think they could.”*
So, then, we get at the fact, that, it is Serjeant Cox’s opinion
that though nine out of every ten men and women of every
degree may be deluded as to some great phenomenal fact, there
are others who with specially trained minds, cannot be so
deceived, and I, Serjeant Cox, am “ The Great Sir Oracle.”
Stand aside, Mr. Crookes, and attend to your laboratory.
Stand aside, ye kindred men and women who attest the
* This conversation was not reported, hut it is doubtless in the recollection
many who were present,—B. C.
reality of Mr. Crookes’s statements as to the marvellous facts
you think you have witnessed. Let me impose my conditions!
Let me be present and make a cross on the forehead of one,
which, if it does not appear on the forehead of the other, is in
my opinion the best proof of your incompetence to judge of
startling facts, for 1 see it on the forehead of both, and the
question is therefore settled. Curious as the fact is, difficult
as it may be to reconcile (which I don’t attempt to do) that a
child can accomplish such a series of marvellous deceptions
for three years, perpetrating “ a fraud whose wickedness cannot
be exceeded,” the fact is nevertheless so, and the sooner you,
Mr. Crookes, and your followers of incompetent observers draw
the veil over the past the better for your reputations. Such
is the position which Mr. Cox has assumed and such would no
doubt be his sentiments.
I, however, do not think that Serjeant Cox is more than off
his balance on this particular subject. All men are said to be
mad on some point, and unless Serjeant Cox can answer
satisfactorily the following questions, he may escape angry
censure on the plea only that he is suffering from a new
malady, ” Katie King on the brain,” and he will doubtless be
left to experiment in future at home.
Does he not know that to impose conditions in such cases is
to defeat the object he professes to have in view, viz., To
ascertain the very truth?” Did he never hear of this in the
many seances he has attended, and has he not been in the habit
of complying with the conditions demanded by what he calls
“ psychic force,” until the outrage he permitted his daughter
to perpetrate in his own house took place ?
Has he not' started a new theory, and steadily ignored all
evidence which would overturn that theory ? Has he never
heard of marks being made to test the reality of a hand in¬
carnate ? Does he believe that no incarnate hand or arm of
the so-called spirit has ever been seen by any one ? Or if he
believes that it has, what difference is there in such a fact
between that and the full form manifestation which he cannot
believe in ?
I am afraid Serjeant Cox will not be able to answer these
questions in a way that will receive “ the cordial assent of all
rational readers ” of your journal.
As one of them I protest against his assumptions, his in¬
ferences, and his reliability in dealing with many points
which surround the thoroughly established facts proved by
Mr. Crookes in his recent experiments. Should Serjeant Cox,
however, deny my statements, or the inferences plainly im¬
plied in my questions, I shall probably have to trespass again
on your columns to prove them. B. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, June 6, 1874.
A PRITATE SEANCE IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—Yesterday we had a most successful seance with Mr. T.
Eves, medium, of Liverpool, a report of which may be interest¬
ing to your readers. To Spiritualists the plain unassuming
manners of this gentleman seem at once to discard any sug¬
gestions for tests, which, however, are proposed by himself to
such extent, that a desire for the severest precautions may be
satisfied. The principal feature of his power is the materiali¬
sation of forms shown by their own light, similar to that of
John King. Before entering into the details of our seance I
may briefly state, as a most important fact relating to the
question of a “ spirit identity, ” that the spirit Bertie de¬
termined to communicate at all my circles in succession,
through five different mediums, private and professional, pro¬
mised previously to appear in form on this occasion.
Our circle consisted of seven : Mrs. Thatcher, Mrs. Eoscoe,
Mrs. Katey H—, Miss F. Wilkinson, Mrs. —, Mr. Eves
(medium), and myself. We sat round a large table on which
a guitar and tubes were placed, and soon the power lifted
the table clear of the floor, all joining hands. The spirit guide
of Mr. Eves, George Holt, began an amusing conversation,
which ended with his promise to send another friend to
“ handle the things on the table,” and shortly after the tubes
(on which phosphoric oil had been put), floated merrily over
our heads and struck us all in turn. Then the guitar was
taken up and played in such a manner that Mrs. — and myself
shouted joyously out: “This is Bertie!” We were the only mem¬
bers knowing the characteristic way in which she used to
signify her presence in former circles,. To us, this was
naturally a most interesting moment in the evening. After a
pause we arranged for the cabinet and were seated in such a
way that the medium could not come out Without immediate
detection. After total darkness had been secured there came
light, expanding to the size of a head, and before the cabinet.
June 12, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
Gradually it grew more brilliant, and revealed a form, an old
man with long flowing white beard.* It moved about and
could be plainly seen by all. Then came another form, our faith¬
ful friend Bertie, not so distinct, but a female veiled figure
could be recognised. Then came two figures at the same
time, and finally George Holt showed his lamp and touched us
with it. It looked like a luminous body wrapped in gauzy ma¬
terial and varying in brilliancy.
This ended owe seance, which I must confess was a real treat
from beginning to end, and I firmly believe this remarkably
powerful medium will be of eminent value in the further de¬
velopment of truth. His numerous engagements testify much
in his favour. Christian Reimers.
2, Ducie-avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
materialisation.
Sib,—In your last issue, you publish a long letter from
Mr. Serjeant Cox, at the close of which he reveals by the
sentence, “ If facts, their importance cannot be exaggerated—
if frauds, their wickedness cannot be exceeded,” a lurking
suspicion that fraud is at the bottom of these extraordinary
manifestations. Now fraud may be of two kinds, conscious,
or unconscious. The victims of kleptomania ; and they may be
met among those to whom the idea of conscious theft would
be absolutely appalling, are not aware of the frauds they are
perpetrating, neither are they in any sense to be blamed for
them, but on the other hand they require external supervision.
Now, is this the kind of fraud to which Mr. Serjeant Cox
points; or is it to a deliberate and conscious plan of deception
on the part of the medium, and his or her surroundings, that
he alludes ? Let this be clearly understood at the outset,
Now, in the case where a medium is not confined in the
most satisfactory manner, it is of course quite open to assert
that one or other of the above kinds of fraud may have been
at the bottom of the resulting manifestations; but what are we
to say of those cases where—in strange houses, moreover—
the medium has been tied, bound and sealed in the firmest and
most conclusive manner at the commencement of the seance, and
has been found in exactly the same condition, as regards tapes,
knots and seals, at the close of the seance ? How is it, when,
in addition to these stringent precautions,'the medium has
been placed either by the hair, or by tape sewn to the waist,
in visible communication with the sitters outside the cabinet,
that a figure has appeared at some distance from the medium,
without either the hair or the tape giving the slightest evidence
of movement on the part of the medium ? I have myself
seen Katie King, while her medium, Miss Cook, was so con¬
fined to the arm chair in which she was sitting as only to be
able to rise on her feet, come out into the open room, and by
request turn round several times, showing her complete in¬
dependence of all external restraint: while in a few minutes,
one of the sitters did, by request, go into the cabinet, and
find that the tapes and knots were all in their original position.
If a young girl could, through some unknown species of
trickery, achieve such a result, she must be a lusus naturae, as
much so indeed as Katie King herself. In this case, then, I
feel absolutely certain that no fraud could be, or was perpe¬
trated, by the medium. But one difficulty remains, and it is
one which has been more than once mooted, and is not free
from perplexity. In connection with the now ascertained
passage of matter through matter, of which phenomenon I am
conversant, it might be asserted that the controlling spirit
possesses the power of causing the entranced body of the
medium to pass througbrher bonds, to appear to the spectators,
and then to pass back again within their bonds, however ap¬
parently satisfactory to human eyes. This, of coarse, is
fraud, but not on the part of the medium, and is, I imagine,
what Mr. Serjeant Cox alludes to at the close of his letter to
the Medium of the 29th May, when he says, “ In what manner
is it (the body of the medium) released from its bonds ? Is it
with them, as with the Davenports, who were untied in two
minutes, and in as many tied up again? er do the cords pass
over as the iron ring is placed upon the arm ?”
But, sir, upon the question of the identity or non-identity
of Miss Florence Cook and Katie King, we have in the article
by Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., published in the Spiritualist of
this day, more convincing proof of their non-identity than
has yet been afforded. Mr. Crookes is photographed with
Katie, who has her bare feet on the floor; their relative height
is ascertained. Mr. Crookes is then photographed with Miss
Cook under precisely similar conditions, and is found to be
half a head shorter than Katie, and looks small in comparison.
* The spirit George Holt.
Several little marks on Miss Cook’s face are absent on Katie’s.
The hair of the one is dark—almost black; the other a gold
auburn. This I, and many others also, can vouch for. Katie's
pulse beats at 75, Miss Cook’s usual rate of pulse being 90—
(no fraud can produce this difference that I am aware of)—
and her lungs are found to be—(at the time only, I presume)—
more typically sound than Miss Cook’s, who was then suffer¬
ing from a severe cough, and if I remember rightly, Mr. Crookes
himself lately informed me that she went into the cabinet
with the mark of an unhealed blister on the upper part of the
chest, of which the uncovered chest of the spirit afforded ho
evidence whatever. As Mr. Crookes has not mentioned this
fact in his letter, he will, I trust, pardon me if I have in any
way misinterpreted his account of this very convincing and
unsought-for test. Is it to be wondered at, then, that Mr.
Crookes should say, “ I have the most absolute certainty that
Miss Cook and Katie are two separate individuals, so far as
their bodies are concernedor that in summing up the result
of the last three years he should also say, “ that to imagine
the ‘ Katie King’ of that period to be the result of imposture
does more violence to one’s reason and common sense than to'
believe her to be what she herself affirms.”
Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., Edin. ’
June 5th, 1874,13, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Sib,—It would be interesting if Mr. Crookes would kindly
inform us whether the hair cut off her head by Katie King,
and presented to him, presents the microscopical structure of
human hair ? Also, whether the pieces of her calico dress
show cotton fibres under the microscope? The appearances
of these things are, as is well known, quite characteristic, and
I am curious to know whether the spirit power of incarnation
and materialisation is confined to an outer semblance, or
whether it extends to the minute and ultimate structure of
organised animal and vegetable tissues. T. M. R.
June 6,1874.  
A REMARKABLE DREAM.
Sib,—I was but a child when I had the following dream. I
thought I was walking where the river on one side bounded
our lawn. Before me ran a little stream of the clearest water
I had ever looked into, flowing over golden land, upon which
lay glittering precious stones of brilliant colours. In ecstacy
I knelt down, splashed my hands into the cool crystal water,
buried them in the yellow sand, and collected those shining
stones. At last, laden with my treasures, I walked on, and
before me stood an angel with a face serene, and strangely
beautiful hair, with a touch of gold in it, which was parted in
the centre, and flowed over the shoulders, while a long white
robe, fastened at the throat, concealed the figure. “ Will you
come with me up to God in heaven?” the angel said; and
when I answered, “Yes,” I was carried in his arms up through
the air swifter than a bird could fly. Fainter and more dis¬
tant seemed the earth. What a height we looked over the.
vanishing world! Higher, still higher, yet was! not frightened!
A bank of opal-coloured clouds but separated us from heaven.
A moment more we would be there, but I saw not within, for
clouds, angel, heaven had vanished; I was awake.
Even now, after long years, its memory returns. That
angel’s holy face, the wild throb of delight at being so near to
heaven, for even then I had a strange yearning for it, as if
there somehow was my unseen yet real home—all, all come
back, and I feel the better for it. Since then what strange
dreams have been mine. Ofttimes in the stillness of the
night my loved ones return to me ; I hold out my hands to
them and call them by name. They speak to me, and tell me
strange secrets ; then, perplexed, do I ask myself this question,
” Wnat really is dreaming?” Ennesfallen.
Burton-on-Trent.
Spirit Photosraphs.—Mr. Hudson, the medium photo¬
grapher, who mixed imposture with real spirit photographs,
and who brought himself to ruin in business in consequence,
has authorised a Mend of his to publish that he desires to give
security for the genuineness of all pictures he may take in
the future. If there is real contrition in the matter, he should
n > longer shield his accomplices, but by permission attend a
council meeting of the National Association, the members of
which might draw up an authorised statement for publication,
of what has taken place in his studio, with the names and
addresses of those who assisted him. The best method of
vouching for future pictures, would perhaps be for him to
ally himstlf, say as assistant, with a photographer of good
standing and character, who should guarantee the bona fide
nature of the prints.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. Y.
BY THE LATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OF THE SUPREME
COURT, NEW YORK.
The spectator, unaccustomed to this manifestation, would
find it difficult to discriminate between it and the ordinary
process of speaking or writing the medium’s own “ideas; but
the mediums have generally no such difficulty, nor has the
bystander who has become familiar with it, aod also become
acquainted with the mind of the medium and its ordinary
operations. For instance, facts are thus communicated before
unknown to the medium, coming events foretold, which are
yet in the womb of the future, and thoughts are suggested at
variance with preconceived notions, and often too profound
and learned for the unlearned and sometimes simple mind on
which they are impressed.
Tnese considerations in some measure apply to the speaking
mediums also, though there is more frequently some external
sign of the power that is operating.
Another, and the last kind of medium that I shall speak of,
consists of those who see, or seem to see, the objects presented
to their consideration. I do not mean that they actually do
see with their physical sight, but the objects are so presented
to them that precisely the same effect is produced on their
minds as is produced by the habitual exercise of their physical
organs of sight. An artist in a neighbouring city lately wrote
me that he, from being one who had thrown the matter aside
as “ a barefaced imposture, and who had spared no words in
denouncing the whole affair a stupendous fraud on the weak-
minded and credulous,” had become such a medium, and had
had scenes presented to his vision which, he says, are ^ im¬
pressed upon his mind with extreme distinctness, more so
than any picture be ever saw, and that they cannot be his
own imaginings—the manner of their presentation precludeing
that idea.”
Among my published papers are several which were given
through me, and it was in this manner that all were so given,
except one, and that was more like the impressible medium.
Such is the general character of this spiritual intercourse as
I have witnessed it.
It is not practicable for me in the limits of this paper to
detail minutely all those things which for nearly three years
I have been witnessing, and the records of which now fill my
volumes of manuscript. I must necessarily content myself
with giving only a general view of it, and I do that the more
readily, because, I repeat, my object is not so much to con¬
vince others, as to awaken in their minds such an interest as
will induce them also to investigate, and thus to bring to
bear upon the subject minds more fitted, from leisure and
other causes, than' mine to conduct such an inquiry as it
seems to me the subject demands.
The facts which I have detailed gave rise in my own mind
to several questions which will readily suggest themselves to
others.
One of the first of those questions was this: What is this
which I am witnessing? Is it a departure from nature’s laws
or in conformity with them ? Is it a miracle, or is it the
operation of some hitherto Unknown but pre-existing cause,
now for the first time manifesting itself ?
The answer I got was : It is the result of human progress,
it is in execution, not a suspension, of nature’s laws, and it is
not now for the first time manifesting itself, but in all ages of
the world has at times been displayed.
I reasoned then, If it is by a law of nature, it must be
universal in its application, and it may be discovered and
understood by man; and I asked that I might understand it.
I was told, however, that my knowledge of nature was too im¬
perfect to enable me to understand it as yet. I asked what I
might read to assist me to the requisite knowledge, and I was
referred by one present to Yon Reichenbach’s Dynamics of
Magnetism, and there I found that he had discovered a hitherto
unknown power in nature. He named it Od, or Odic force,
and described it as an exceedingly subtle fluid, existing with
magnetism and electricity, found in fire and heat, and pro¬
duced in the human body by the chemical action of respira¬
tion and digestion and decomposition, and issuing from the
body in the shape of a pale flame, with sparks, and smoke,
and material in its nature, though so much sublimated as to
be visible only to persons of a peculiar vision. In my ex¬
periments I have myself once or twice seen it, but have met
with those who could see it as readily as those through whom
that German philosopher conducted his examinations.
I was given to understand that this power was used in these
manifestations, but how or in what manner I have not learned.
I was also made to know that electricity and magnetism had
something to do with them.
Upon that subject it was said to me, ” Man physically is
composed of one element in three distinct grades of perfec¬
tion, which grades serve to form a link between the spiritual
and physical worlds.
An advertisement relating to a coming meeting at Mr,
(logman's seance rooms, at the east end of London, .will be
found upon another page. Friends are requested to take
tickets, as he well deserves support for the arduous and per¬
sistent work he is doing in that district.
Next Friday the price of The Spiritualist will be re¬
duced to Twopence. As this will considerably reduce the
margin of profit on sales, many leading Spiritualists intend
taking several copies weekly, some to give away and some to
keep clean for binding. Friends are requested to do all they
can to increase the circulation. On and after Friday next
newsvendors can have “contents bills” weekly for exhibition
in shop windows.
Mrs. Fax’s Mediumship.—Mrs. Fay, a very intelligent
professional physical medium, has just arrived in London
from America, and gives seances at 2, Yernon-place, Blooms¬
bury, W.O. We shall probably have some information to give
about her seances in the next number of the Spiritualist.
Mrs. Fay is accompanied by her husband, who states himself
to be a brother of Mr. Wm. Fay, late manager to the Daven¬
ports, and not Mr. H. Melville Fay.
Examiners’ Examinations.—A recent number of The
Examiner contains a very long article attacking Spiiitualism,
in which the writer says that he has never been to a seance,
and never means to go to one; hence it appears that men who
distinctly refuse to examine are eligible writers of articles for
The Examiner. The same number of that paper contains
some censorious remarks aboub London Society. This month
one of the contributors to the latter periodical disparages
Spiritualism, but says, “ I have never been to a seanceto
this remark the editor of London Society appends a foot-note to
the effect that he had better go to one before he gives any
more of his valuable opinions on the subject.
answers to correspondents.
Dr. Ghild, Philadelphia U. S.—Mr. Blackburn desires us to state
that he has received your letter.
TEA MEETING OF SPIRITUALISTS on Sunday,
June 21st, at Mr. R. Cogtnan's stance roams, 15, St. Peter’c-road,
Mile End-road, E., at 5 o’clock. Tickets one shilling each.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS. — All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and otaer progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to the
“ PIONEER OP PROGRESS ” LIB BAR Y,
Wnich contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of now and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office or the Pioneer of Progress, 31, Museum-street. Bloomsbury, W.O.
SYCHISCHE bTUDlEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to tbe investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander aksakof, Imperial Rus-ian Conn
cilior at St. Petersburg. Published at Lelpsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.^
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK,
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Pit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
n, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T3 ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLV? House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for ths
prompt letting of Houses of every despripiion.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Pitting,
well and promptly executed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 12, 1874.
in
BRITISH] NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
. i (ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents;
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bi-rnard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Event. Thomas, Lilian-villa. H1 Idei ’s-hill. Hendon.
Fi z-Qera1d, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park square.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square.
Hall, S. 0„ F.S.A.. Avenue-villa, Bolland street, Kensington.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, Warwiek-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. i)., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple.
Ramsay, Mrs., 40, Branston-square, W.
Rtss-Chnrch, Mrs. Florence Marryat, 21, Colville-gardens, Kensingston-
park, W.
Senior, Mts. H. 67, Rodney-street, Liverpool.
Smi'h, Martin R, Beathlands Wimbledon.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-read, St. John’s-wood.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-n ad, N.E.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford,
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 16, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B. A., Red-hill, Surrev.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-i hambers Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseuh, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Everitt Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder‘s-hil], Hendon, Middlesex. N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34 Walnut-s reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G.-, M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-<lerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Lougbborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph. York Hill Farm, Loughton, Etsex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S, 4, Gray's-inn-square, W.C.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Bill-side, Streatham, S.W.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.O.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent.
Hunophri 'S H T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Ishsm. Sir Charles, Bart.. Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Cl' b, S.W.
K’slingbury Miss. 98, Clarendon road. Notdng-hill, W.
King. Gporge, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bajswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel J.P.. United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Car.i arthenshire.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred E.. 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B, 1, King’s-eqnare, Goswell-road, E.O.
M^ers, W. D., care of T. Eventt ttclders-lilt, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, n. W., F.S.S, 14 Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29 Daly ell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sext u., George, 17, Trafalgar-road, 1 Id Kent-road, S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-orescent, Liverpool.
Snelling, G. F., Oamden-villa., Victoria n ad, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawb'idge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Oeutral-hill. Upper Norwood.
S rawb-idge, Mrs. G N. Annandale Cen ral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. 0., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald. Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &o., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietki-ns, E. A., 18, Oabley-square, N.W.
WiEon, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Attenberg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorwy Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence )
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secreta<y.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russia, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order "f St. Stanislas. Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Date Owen, Hotel Branting. New York, U.S., America.
J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Bardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J, M. Peebles, Esq., Hummontou, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
A ustralia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassnls y Maranosa, Madrid,
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Linde-ay Richardson, Australia.
M.1 Ley marie, Paris.
Dr. Nehrer, Vienna.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 8 p m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d ; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5S.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE,TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hilJ, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCORE7, Medical Mesmerist and.
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again onen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-rord, Shepherds'-bush
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CUR AT LYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-*
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica*
ion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New Y >rk. Terms Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Rteu t-.r your Letters
QBALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
Ik3 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Mon -y refunded if not answered. Register your le’ters.
NNIE E. FaY, the celebrated Physical Medium
from Ameiica has arrived in London, and taken a suits of rooms,
No 2, Ven ou-place, Blootn-bury-square, W.O. She will give ceances every
evening except on Saturdays and Sundays. A light and a dark s ance are
given each evening, lasting two hours, commencing at 8 o’clock promptly.
No callers for sit ings received during the day. Applications can be made
for seats, however, at any time during the day at No. 2, Vernon-place, or by
post. Engagements to visit private residences (or seances can be made
with Mrs. Fay by calling at her rooms. Terms ten shillings admission to
both evening seances, ligot and dark.
flic THE RKADKR8 OF “THE MED1DM.” Answer
fi. to William Hewitt's Letter on the British National Association
op Spirituali-ts. By Algernon Joy (“lota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. f 9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-iane, E.O.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An.
Id} 11 of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. OircuLtiog library, w-11 supplied with all the
mo tern magazines aud reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
COMPANION or GOVERNESS ia a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspeeiive Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. F*euch, Italian, Mu.-ic, and Needlework. Good
References. Address O. S., Morley's Library, Forest-hil), Loud ,n.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.O.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Queleh, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq.,-B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who db not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
; difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let me person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, ana from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Ti e best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly- comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
Just published,
The second volume of ‘‘ what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By,
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. i Price ids. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
Chap.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the IntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of* Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Lon&man & Co Patemoster-row.
I
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.’ ’—Binning -
ham. Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature, and its Needs’^—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to' equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso
phical and high-class character.'1—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Briy/iton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL."
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton. Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
H E JS R Y B. B U 8 H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspapw
A CIRCLE, is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Mani'e^Utions of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection, Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 41, Bernard-street,
Russell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrewr
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London, E.O.
