[BEGISXJi'REU AS A NfiWSPAfEU.]
joifi(KSi< of >s:CifKCf<.
Jtbjsjjapr romvevl^ tuillj 3ptulualism m <$mt Jiniaht.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : ir, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 346, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE:/Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: ’Messrs. Kelly ft Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal", Office' MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 209.—-(VOL. IX.—No. 4.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence, n
OftmtentB,
Unpopular Subjects  ..."  ... ... ... ... ... 37
Wbat is the Intelligence? By Charles Oarleton Massey ... 37
The Coming Fi^nd     ...     ...88
A Seance with Dr. Slade. By Florence Jeffreys    ... 38
Direct Writing by Invisible Operators. By F. W. Percival 39
A Search for a Magician ...   ... ...' ... ... ...39
The National Association of Spiritualists...   ... ... 40
A Sitting with Dr. Slade* By Alfred Bussell Wallace 42
An Extraordinary Materialisation Seance. By T. P. Bar has,
F.G.S. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... ... 42
Direct Spirit Writing. By Alexander Calder, President of
the British National Association of Spititualists  43
Healing Gifts among the Roman Catholics. By J. M. Peebles 43
Poetry:—A Scientific Anthem   ... ...’ ...7 :... 44
Correspondence:—A’Test Seance—Editors1 and Men of
Science—Conjurors’ Tricks—The Influence of Educa¬
tion upon Mediumship—First Steps in Spiritualism-
Dr. Slade and Men of Science—Mr. Serjeant Cox on
False Explanations of Beal Phenomena—The Boarding¬
house for Spiritualists—More about “ S. J. Sahel”—
Spirit Identity—The Hymn of the Brown Bird—Art
Magic—Direct Spirit Writing *... ... '    44
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis ...' 48
Free Seances to Scientific Men and the Press... 75 48
Spirit Identity ;  i. ; ... I ... ,... ... ... 48
Paragraphs:—Cured by Prayer, 39; The Bight' of Inquiry,
41: Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Labours, 41; Premo¬
nitions, 41; A Haunted House, 47; Will of Miss Har¬
riet Martineau, 47; A Spirit Message,' 48; “ Bevival”
Meetings, 48; The Spirit, 48; What a Medium Told
Lawyer House, 48; Sunday Lectures in Liverpool ... 48
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Bhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5a It
will be illustrated, and will, contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,” Ch. Bawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C. •’ ■
East London spiritual meetings.-
LECTUBES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cpgman’u
Lecture Booms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.,
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
* Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 fo'2. Op Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
• Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.  
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOB EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kabdec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiques, fondfi par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme. 7. Rue do Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Ley marie.   
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles ot the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant 8itting Boom and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Bail and Omnibus. C. 102, Clareudou-ivad, Netting-bill, W.
DALSTON association Of inquirers
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.B.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.) ;
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks/
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, - Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Bouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer:—Mb. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—H, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
leld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media,. lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to-similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
•* To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual'or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Booms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscriptjion for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING BOOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will he thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Boom, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
RIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Booms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. l|d.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Bue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T> EFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
XV WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Oommunications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. Louden
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. Loudon: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE BEADING BOOM AND LIBBABY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., te
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Sp'ritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing m the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may bo
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary. •
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Bussell-sti eet, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LEOTUBES. AUGUST, 1876.
Mr. J. J. Morse—" The Mission of Spiritualism, its Nature and
Value," Sunday, Aug. 6th, at 3 p.m.
„ „ “ The Workshops of God,” Aug. 6th, at 7 p.m.
,', „ “Life’s Four Seasons; their Uses and Lea*
sons,” Monday, Aug. 7th, at 7 p.m.
Mr. J. T. Rhodes—“ Green’s Prize Essay, the Probable Effect*
of, &c.,” Sunday, Aug. 18th, at 7 p.m.
Mr. W. H. LAMBELLE—“ Mythology,” Sunday, Aug. 20tb, at
7 p.m.
Mr. H. A. Kersey—(Subject will be announced). Sunday,
Aug. 27th, at 7 p.m.
Admission free. Collection at the close.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the wbofo of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by <he
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
Is known of the. great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambria. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and' noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of Th6
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions ot
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aua. 25, 1876,
JJRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W-
- Viie-P^esidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, LUian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex*
N.W. m
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J, M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.*
Liverpool- . .
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-,
ings, E.C.
liamsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Kogers, E. D , liose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tempieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra*-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Blnney, F A.., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road, Holtand-road, Kensington, W,
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall,Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blaok-
heath, S.E. .
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley^road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W.. The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C-, Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place.W.
Mawson,Wm. Bryham, X, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalstdn, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Ged. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, 1>. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W„ and 8, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, M}ss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-sqnare, Chelsea, S.W.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Yernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.B., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-nlace, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J..H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
MR. CHARLES E. WIT J JAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.ta,
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenibgs (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from -a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
N.B.—Mr. Williams is at present on the Continent.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays. Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Biyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—LI Viscoride de Torres-Solanot.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, SO, Tynemouth-road, Newoastle-on-
Tyne.
"jl/TISS CHAND0S eradicates Consumption,
AtJL Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), inoluding specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretory.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nook.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
!* discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit oom-
mnnion.
July, 1876.   
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiay, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trauce state, and are of the mest
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatmeat by clair¬
voyant Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays,
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.O.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PDBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communicationa. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance tor refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin li. Smith, Esq,, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mti J* H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchteriberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgensteiri, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Bebeea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Sniyrria, Turkey In Asia.
Dr. -Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Le-lpslc.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarle, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
‘ tT. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Eeq.j M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has f/om the first taken a very high stand in the liierature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent inrerest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-honse-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISvi EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt ot letter or
telegsam,
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. ’ Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing nseful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id,; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from II a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to MISS S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooma
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
.guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A, B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
xtf ^5^$$ xtf ntfo tl jlyajifimlim
VOJ-UJVIE Kumber Foui\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 2Bth, 1876.
UNPOPULAR SUBJECTS. j
In the course of the gradual development of the human !
race, new ideas in advance of those of preceding generations I
are born into the world, some good, some bad, and they | !
forthwith proceed to do battle for their right to live.
Whether these ideas be good or bad, they are always trodden |
down at first by uncultured people, the great majority of 11
mankind not having yet arrived at the stage of thinking it | >
to be a duty to examine without prejudice every new thing, ||
to accept it if it be good, and to reject it if it be evil. Among |(
Spiritualists, who see evety day the fallacy of trusting either j |
to antiquity or to authority, new ideas find a more fair re- i|
ception than they meet anywhere else. For this reason \\
every individual in the ranks of Spiritualism who has some ||
new and excessively unpopular plan of reforming society, ij
forthwith offers it to the Spiritual journals, and not un- I]
frequently pleads that it is a dereliction from duty if the said j
scheme is not taken up. To such our reply usually is that j j
Spiritualism is sufficiently unpopular with the outside world j (
without fastening on to it half-a-dozen other unpopular re- i):
forms, however important and truthful they may be. A man j
may have a heavy box which it is right and proper and j
desirable should be taken up the stream ; but he has no j
right to insist that a boatman whose craft is already laden to I
the water’s edge shall take his heavy box on board simply !
because the object desired to be attained is a good one. The j j:
two cargoes would go to the . bottom together, and the two | j
mortals would not be considered the incarnate representatives j j j
of wisdom. Let this argument be sufficient for those ardent {
reformers who insist that the (Spiritual periodicals should |
take up half-a-dozen unpopular reforms, in addition to those j (
which it is their regular and unmistakable duty to carry j
through. j
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE? |
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY. j
The publication of the so-called message from Charles j
Bravo must have re-awakened in the minds of many
thoughtful Spiritualists a problem of which the difficulties j
have hardly yet been enough appreciated. Owing to the |
notoriety which that communication has obtained, many of j j
us probably have had within the last few days to encounter | j
questions from our friends—the outside public—which we j j
could not answer without very apparent doubt. With such |
mediums as Dr. Slade, and, it seems, Dr. Monck also, we |
shall have no difficulty in demonstrating our objective j j
facts to all, men of science and others, who will take the | <
trouble to come and see them. But that these facts j j
cannot be relied upon as sufficient to satisfy speculative ! |
minds of spirit agency is evident from the silence of 11
Mr. Crookes, and the expressed doubts of Mr. Serjeant j
Cox, who have both had as large an experience of these i j
phenomena as any of us. Inasmuch as the force emanates | j i
from the medium, why may it not be directed by the j j
unconscious exercise of his will and intelligence, as it is 11 j
undoubtedly influenced by his wishes ? That the physical 111
manifestations in general, and such messages as are com- | j |
monly written upon Dr. Slade’s slates, leave the nature of | j j
the intelligence in much doubt, must needs be conceded, j j |
By establishing the action beyond the organism of a j | j
force originating within the organism, which force is m
probably the same as that by which muscular effects are ||
produced, it may be said that we are so far from having I j [
proved spirit agency that we have not even disposed of j j |
Dr. Carpenter. The learning of Unconscious Cerebration is m
nearly as applicable to the transcorporeal as to the organic la
operations of a force obedient to the physiological changes of j;
the brain. It may be said that the proved fact of the ‘D
direct suggestive influence of mind upon mind, deprives
the communication of facts known to the investigator and
unknown to the medium of its evidential value. Suppose
that the psychological sensibility of the medium is so
exquisite that the modifications of the investigator’s brain,
related to the contents of his consciousness or memory, set
up corresponding vibrations in the brain of the medium,
and that these put in appropriate motion the current, which
in the active results of unconscious cerebration passes
through the ideo-motor nerves, and which, perchance, in
abnormally constituted persons, passes beyond these, pro¬
ducing the same results directly that it ordinarily effects
by means of muscular contractions? We have the proved
facts that some force does proceed from and operate beyond
the organisation,-and that muscular contractions are not
necessary to make a pencil write. And we have the
physiological fact of involuntary and unconscious intelligent
action; and the fact of mesmeric influence—often uncon¬
sciously exercised and received. All that is done here i»
that these four facts are put together and made to co-operate.
Any one who maintains that the movement of objects with¬
out contact, and direct writing, are insufficient to prove
independent spirit agency must needs resort to some such
explanation as the above. We may marvel that any one
can entertain it,. but we may be sure that the subtlest
weapons of the physiological armoury will be drawn put
before spiritual existences will be admitted. The battle
of Spiritualism will have to be fought over the intelligence.
Of course we know that no such hypothesis will cover all
our facts, and therefore it will be well to classify the latter
according to the degree of evidence of independent intelli¬
gence they carry with them.
(1.) There is the sort of communication most frequently
written on Dr. Slade’s slates, an edifying little message
about the truth and moral influence of Spiritualism. This
is probably very much what the medium would say himself
on the subject.
(2.) The revelation of a fact, unknown to the medium, but
distinctly present to the mind of the investigator, purports
to be made by a deceased participator in the knowledge of
that fact. This is evidence which wholly fails to exclude the
hypothesis which refers the phenomenon to cerebral activity,
communicated from one brain to the other, and nerve force
transmitted beyond the organism.
(3.) The fact, unknown to the medium, is within the
memory, Le., within the power of recollection, but not pre¬
sent to the consciousness of the investigator. The remarkable
message, through Dr. Slade’s mediumship, recorded by Dr.
Carter Blake, is an instance of this. Here the evidence is
better, because to the hypothesis of brain sympathy must be
added the further hypothesis that the potential contents of
consciousness, or the tablets of the memory, can be passed
on to the other brain, in order to avoid the conclusion of
spirit agency. That would be a case of transmitted uncon¬
scious cerebration.
(4.) The fact, once known to the investigator, has passed
wholly out of his power of recollection, but is subsequently
verified. Should it turn out, in the case of Dr. Blake’s
message, that the figure preceding the reference to Mr.
Crockett, has a significance once known to, but forgotten by
Dr. Blake, this message would have an additional value.
But we are not yet clear of Dr. Carpenter. In Mental Phy¬
siology a case is recorded in which a line from Young’s Night
Thoughts was quoted by a planchette, and the person whose
hand was on the planchette had never, as far as lie knew,
read that book. Afterwards, finding a copy of it in his
library, he assumed that he must have read it,, and this
is given by Dr. Carpenter. a case of unconscious cere¬
bration.
33
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 25, 1876.
(5.) When the fact never was within the investigator’s
knowledge, but is verified by inquiry (the medium’s know¬
ledge being of course excluded). This is the best evidence.
Dr. Blake’s message may turn out to have this value, and it
is to be hoped we shall hear again from him on the subject.
The case of “ S. J. Sabel, Esq.,” recorded in The Spiritualist
of August 4th and 11th, would have this highest evidential
value if we could prove that by no possibility could Dr.
Slade have been in possession of information respecting him.
There are some, but not many cases of this description, rest¬
ing. upon excellent authority. Notably that recorded by
M.A. (Oxon), in the “ Spirit Teaching,” published January
21st, of this year, the best case of spirit identity I know of.
But even when we have got to this point, we are still short
of demonstrative proof of spirit identity, because it is con¬
ceivable that a deceiving spirit has obtained the information.
But that is of little consequence to the end we have at pre¬
sent in view, namely, to exclude the intelligence of the
medium. The same perplexities which beset us in con¬
sidering the communications, arise also out of the physical
phenomena. Just as we have a message, such as the Bravo
one, which does not carry us beyond the intelligence of the
medium, and perhaps, at the same sitting, another message |
bearing high evidence of an independent origin ; so we have I
a visible hand, in nil respects a duplication of the medium’s,
and then another, as witnessed by Serjeant Cox, small and |
feminine in appearance.
Spirit agency, however, if admitted necessarily in any
ease; will probably be applied to all. And then comes the |;
question of deceiving spirits. Considerations upon this sub- 1
ject I propose to reserve for a further communication.
Tempi®, August 21st, 1876.
THE COMING FIEND. j|
From the “ Few York World?' August 4dh. !,
Colonel Olcott, the great theosophist, seeks an Eastern I i
sorcerer, and we wish that be may get him. We need some j
of the genuine old magic to clear the air, after the pestilent j
fog which has been evoked about us by way of the super- !
natural (without quarrelling about the meaning of u super- j
natural ”) here in New York. Who of us has not marvelled j
exceedingly at reading or hearing travellers’ tales of the j
stupendous deeds in a perfectly incidental way, and for the I (
most insignificant remuneration, by stray wizards of the jj
Orient? If one of these jugglers can be induced to come |j
over from Cairo or Bombay, and instruct sceptical New York |
audiences in the mysteries of practical theosophy, there need |
be no question of expenses. How he would draw,— !
causing palm trees to sprout in the Academy; borrowing I
children from the audience to cut into tender loins, and j
restoring them made whole, under a crust of pie, to their
heart-broken parents; climbing up nothing to a proper plane,
and then levitating calmly around the 11 horseshoe,” and
otherwise justifying Colonel Olcott and the Theosophical
Society to the public mind ! For although the theosophists
fast much and pray daily to Adonai in presumably Oriental
languages, and keep themselves as unspotted from the world
as is by any means consistent with the condition of our New
York streets, they have not yet climbed up the pillar of
self-denial and faith so high that they can perform a
real miracle (without quarrelling about the meaning of
“ miracle”). This one thing is lacking; and not only will
the society get great renown; it will experience the substan¬
tial gratitude of all seers of shows and searchers of the
unsearchable when it brings along its miracle-worker.
Bring him along, by all means.
Colonel Olcott’s letter of instructions to the agent whom
he has despatched on this quest is very impressive. It
bristles with the evidences of that theosophic study which is
the only true preparation for high attainment in than-
maturgy and theurgy. Mr. E. S. Spaulding is the man jjj
whom, quite forgetting Stanley, the eyes of the civilised j j
world will henceforth follow. It was right to cram him up jjj
well, for one theosophist differs from another theosophist l\j
in glory and erudition, after the manner of stars and of j,1!
men. He is bidden to distinguish sharply between the jjj
Er-Roo'-hha'-nee, which, as every child knows, is white j j
magic, practised by the pure in heart, and founded on w
jj intense theosophical knowledge, and the Es-see-miya,
j! which, it is needless to say, is black magic, practised by
<j Miltonic fiends, endowed with tremendous knowledge and
j power, and of equally tremendous depravity. He is to
Jj catch either kind of a sorcerer, however (privately, we do
If hope he will get a fiend), the object being merely to
j establish the fundamental truth, that what Colonel Olcott
j calls 11 theosophy” means something, and he is on no account
jj to import a divinity. How he will puzzle the reporters
j when they swarm on board his steamer at Quarantine! How
j he will make the pulpits shake when his prize gets to work I
How he will elude the police by levitating off like Fisk and
jj Grould to Taylor’s Hotel in Jersey! How  But it is
j impossible to prefigure the sudden fillip which he will give
j in a thousand and one ways to the stately backwardness of
j our boasted civilisation. The Theosophical Society, by the
j way, engages itself to pay for bringing the fiend over.
(I That seems to us unnecessary. Let him levitate and hitch Mr.
j Spaulding on behind. Let them appear together hovering over
jj New York from the eastern sky, a true sign in the heavens,
jj a new constellation of the Gemini, whereat the multitude
jj shall flop confounded and confess a new faith, while the
j Theosophical Society, assembled on pier No. 1, holds
j Colonel Olcott forcibly down from joining them aloft. No
j true philosophy at this day can be kept selfishly secret,
j Old Socrates killed this esoteric business. It will be the
j square thing to let the fiend float in the sight of the whole
j people, and his time ought to be taken at both ends. We
I don’t often get a fiend pure and simple. Let us not entreat
|j this one so shabbily that no more will come to us.
| A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
BT FLORENCE JEFFREYS.
On Wednesday, August 16th, 1876, 1 attended, accom-
j panied by a friend, a seance given by Dr. Slade, at No. 8,
j Bedford-place, Russell-sqaare.
Our sitting was held in a plainly-furnished drawing-room,
j in broad daylight, at about 3.30 p.m. Dr. Slade sat at the table
j sideways, with his feet to the right. My friend sat next him
j on his right, while I took my place facing the medium, on
j the opposite side of the table. We all placed our hands
together, in the centre of the table, and almost immediately
loud blows were heard, seeming to come alternately upon the
floor and the table. While this was going on, both the
medium’s hands were fully visible with ours upon the table.
The knocks ceased. I then produced a small slate which I
had brought with me for the purpose. This Dr. Slade laid
upon the top of the table, putting between it and the table
a very small piece of slate pencil. He then placed one hand
lightly upon it. In a few moments I could distinctly hear
sounds of writing upon the slate. On turning it up, a short
message was found to be written, in clear, legible characters.
This occurred several times ; in each case my friend’s elbow
rested upon the slate while the writing was going on. While
we were thus sitting, a hand grasped my right knee firmly
under the table. Dr. Slade then moved across the room, to
procure a larger slate: this we examined to satisfy ourselves
that there was nothing written upon it. The slate was then
placed under the table, with a small piece of slate pencil upon
it, Dr. Slade holding it with his right hand, and my friend
with his left. My friend said that he kept the slate as close
as possible to the table, but the pressure caused by the
writing seemed to force it downwards. The result of this
was, that shortly, a distinct sound of rapid writing was
heard upon the slate, and a message, of which the following
is a copy, was found to have been written :—
Dear Friends,—It is an undeniable fact that man is more willing to receive
the mysterious than he is to receive plain teaching that appeals to his own
reason, and will be approved by it. Now all theologians of the present day
have the Bible for their foundation ; they all differ. Now as they express the
Bible it is the most mysterious book man’s eyes ever beheld ; everything
there set down is clothed in mystery, when you look at it from this standpoint.
Christ told the multitudes that he came to establish a new law. that he came
to fulfil a mighty mission, but how few that follow His teaching, or follow
His laws of love. Spiritualism comes and brings its own proof, as this letter
is proof of the presence of A. W. Slade.
This message covered the whole side of the slate which
had been next to the table. The lines were close together,
and extremely evenly kept. We were conversing with Dr.
THIS SPIRITUALISE,
Aug. 25, 1876.
Slade more or less all the time the writing continued, and I jjj
noticed that whenever I loosed his hand the writing ceased ; 1)1
when I again held it it continued. jj
I was anxious to have a few words written upon my slate |||
while I alone held it, which I might presume to show to my |{
friends. Dr. Slade requested me to move near him, so I ||l
changed places with my friend, and held the slate with my ||!
left hand close under the table. The medium first made a |||
few passes down my left arm with his right hand, then |||
placed it so that all our five hands met in the centre of the |||
table ; the only one which was invisible being my left, which jij
was holding the slate. In this position, and while my foot j
was upon the medium’s left foot, his other to be plainly seen, I j!
I heard and felt the pencil writing, and on looking found |||
upon my slate, which had been held by my own hand alone, i |
“ Good-bye, God bless you, Allie.” jjl
Previously to changing my seat, I had had a pocket- m
handkerchief upon my knee. On looking round, when the jj|
slate writing had finished, I observed that it was on the jjj
floor, at some distance from the table, on the opposite side j |
to that on which Dr. Slade was sitting, and that it was tied | I
up into a tight knot. jjj
Before the seance concluded, and upon our raising our l|j
hands several times suddenly from the table, it was lifted up jjj
to a height of several inches from the floor. jjj
I note down these facts as they occurred before me in j j
broad daylight, under conditions absolutely precluding all j j
possibility of deception. j j
DIRECT WRITING BY INVISIBLE OPERATORS. j |
u
BY P. W. PERCIVXL, Hi
I can fully endorse what M. A. (Oxon) has stated in your jjj
columns in reference to the phenomena which occurred when jjj
he sat with Dr. Slade. “The invisible operators,” he says, j !
“ knew exactly what they were going to do, and did it with j j
promptitude and precision.” I had a seance with Dr. Slade j I
on Tuesday last, and in compliance with my request he j j
placed on the table between us a double slate, on which he ! j
laid a scrap of pencil. As soon as the slate was closed, the j j
sound of writing was heard, and when we opened it, a long j i
message had been written which entirely covered both the jjj
upper and lower sides. The writing was straight and per- j j
fectly clear ; the stops were all in their proper places ; one j I
of the words was underlined, and a quotation was marked j j
by inverted commas. Certainly the invisible operators were j j
prompt and precise, and they did their work well, notwith- j j
standing frequent interruptions, for, as Serjeant Cox has j j
pointed out, the writing ceases whenever the chain formed jj
by the sitters and table is broken, and we tried the experi- j j
ment several times. Moreover, they know well enough j
what good work is. I had placed under the table a sheet of j
paper with a lead pencil upon it, and during the seance they j j
wrote on a slate, “We have marked'paper for you.” A j I
few words had been scrawled upon it; they had done their j j
best, but could only “ mark ” it. I may mention that they j j
had written on the side of the paper exposed to the light, j j
and that on another occasion when I sat with Dr. Slade, j j
they wrote a message on the upper side of a slate while he j j
was holding it with one hand on the top of my head. It j j
would appear that they can work in broad daylight, or even j j
in the brightest sunshine. What seems to be a far greater j n
hindrance is the action of the human eye. jjj
Malvern, August 21st, 1876. j j j
Cored by Prayer.—A remarkable cure by prayer has occurred in ijj
the case of a Foxboro’ lady. She had suffered for two years from lung jj!
and spinal ailments. Recently she paid a visit to the Consumptives’ jjj
Home at Grove Hall, which is under the charge of Dr. Charles Cullis, j) |
who cures by faith and prayer. She has now returned to her friends jjj
almost, if not quite entirely, cured. She says that after assuring the jjj
doctor that she had faith, she was requested to kneel, when he dipped jjj
his finger in oil and put it upon her forehead, knelt in front of her, and j j j
made a short prayer, asking the Lord to heal her of whatever disease jjl
she had. Before rising he rubbed his finger across her forehead, jji
saying, I anoint you with oil in the name of the Lord, amen.” She jj j
says, ‘‘I felt a change immediately; the heavy burdened feeling was jjj
gone, and I could draw a long breath without any trouble—something |,! i
I had not been able to do before for several years—and my lungs felt M
perfectly clear.” Since that time she has gained in health and strength, j' j
and considers herself well.—Boston Herald, 111
§9
A SEARCH FOR A MAGICIAN.
(From the “ New York Daily Graphic” Aug. 3rd.)
Some time since nine Arabs arrived at this port from Trinidad, from
which place they were sent entirely destitute by the local authorities.
Shortly after four more Arabs arrived. On arriving here they were
without means, and in danger of starving, and the local authorities con¬
sidered that they were not bound to take care of them. Owing, how¬
ever, to the kindness of Mayor Wickham they were admitted to Bellevue
Hospital, and Colonel Henry S. Olcott exerted himself to raise the
means to send them back to their country. There was some difficulty
about this, however, for the captains of vessels sailing for Gibraltar
feared that they might rise in mutiny. To reassure the captain who
finally agreed to take them, Colonel Olcott persuaded a member of the
Theosophical Society, Mr. E. S. Spaulding, to accompany the Arabs to
Gibraltar, from whence they were to be shipped to Tunis. There is
some mystery about these Arabs that it is difficult to dispel. They can
give no account of how they first came to the West Indies. They say
that all they can remember is that they found themselves in an open
boat, and that they were nine days out before they reached Demerara,
from whence they were sent to Trinidad.
The following letter, written to Mr. Spaulding by Colonel Henry S.
Olcott, will be found of interest in this connection:
New York, August 2, 1876.
My Dear Sir,—The duties which, as a fellow of the Theosophical
Society, you are expected to perform during your present journey are as
follows:
After restoring the unfortunate Arabs under your care to their
families, and presenting the letter of his Honour the Mayor to the
American Consul at Tunis your service to the public will have termi¬
nated. You will then devote your time to two objects:
1. To seeing every possible phase of magical and necromantic phe¬
nomena, and taking notes of their minutest details, so as to be able to
report the facts to the society.
2. To finding a real magician or sorcerer who will consent to come to
this country with you and display his powers before the society.
As you are but a newly affiliated fellow, it is proper that I should
inform you that what is termed magic is of a two-fold nature. As
nature has its day and its night, its light and shadow, its spiritual (or
energic) and its natural (or objective) sides, so magic, which is the
science of nature, has its good and bad sides. The good is called white
magic; the bad black magic. The Egyptians call the former Fr-Roo*
hha' nee; the latter Es-See miya. White magic is theosophy—a science
founded upon a practical, experimental knowledge of pure spiritual
beings and the powers of one’s own immortal soul. The practitioner
must be physically and morally pure, unselfish, indifferent to worldly
honours, ambitions, rewards, and strife. His life must be one apart
from that of common men; in short, he must be in mind, body, and
soul an Apollonius, a Jesus, a Buddha.
The devotees of black magic are men who, knowing the occult forces
of nature, and the tremendous efficacy of the human will in subjugating
them, nevertheless degrade their knowledge and power to base uses—
the gratification of lust, avarice, hatred, selfishness of every kind.
Many of the most wonderful phenomena of white magic these sorcerers
will parody for the amusement of a crowd, or a trifling present. One of
these sorcerers will, for a small fee, show you images of the dead, and
enable you to converse with them in audible voice; or cause to pass
before your eyes the representations of scenes transpiring at your own
home, or any other place, no matter how distant. They will walk, self-
levitated, in mid-air; climb poles, which rest upon nothing, until they
positively go out of sight; and dismember themselves, even to decapi¬
tation, without injury. At a public hall in London, England, a friend
of mine saw a performance by a party of such sorcerers, part of which
consisted in thrusting knives through their cheeks, arms, and legs, and
then, upon their withdrawal, instantly staunching the flow of blood, and
healing the wounds without leaving a scar! I have a photograph of a
Persian sorcerer and his subject, the latter having had his legs ampu¬
tated, and being about to suffer decapitation at the hands of the former,
with a perfect assurance that he will be put together again the next
minute “ as good as new.”
Such trifles as writing inside sealed letters that never leave your
person, the transportation of ponderable objects from one place to
another, the serving of coffee and pipes to you by invisible servants,
the showering of flowers upon you in open air or in a room, the convo¬
cation of thousands of snakes from their holes and nests, and the
despatching of them without suffering any personal harm, are as
common as table rappings in Boston.
All these things you should search after, study, and report to us. If
you could persuade a real magician or sorcerer to come here and show
us proofs of his will-power, you would do a great tiling for the society
and for science. For I give you my word that if these men will only
put me in the way of showing what we mean by theosophy, I will select
the most sceptical of our scientists, and either compel him to acknow¬
ledge that there is a spiritual side to the universe, or show that
modern science writes above every graduate’s diploma the legend,
Quanti est fallere.
You will observe amongst the thaumaturgists of Morocco and Tunis
that, while they exhibit every wonder of American mediumship, they
exact none of its conditions of darkened rooms, sealed cabinets, hand¬
holding, and sound-drowning music; they will do everything for you
in broad daylight, on the open ground, and without confederate's or
other apparatus than such as yourself furnish.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua. 25. 1876.
It is useless to impress upon your mind the importance of your sup¬
plementary mission. You have the opportunity to introduce to Western
scientists, under the patronage, restrictions, and guarantees of a scien¬
tific society, those proofs of occult powers for lack of which they have
been drifting into materialism and infidelity ever since the disco¬
veries (?) of John Dalton, of Avogadro, and of Ampere forced our phy¬
sicists and chemists to reconstruct our philosophies of cosmogony and
chemism.
Upon receipt of a cable despatch that you have secured such a person
as I have described, I will arrange with our treasurer a credit against
which you can draw for the necessary expenses.—Yours truly,
Henry S. Olgott,
President of the Theosophical Society.
To Edward S. Spaulding, F.T.S., &c.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. | |
The following letter, which has previously been published in these j j
pages, was produced, but not read, at the last meeting of the Council i j
of the, National Association of Spiritualists:— ! | i
The Spiritualist Newspaper Office, July 18th, 1876. 11
Ladies and Gentlemen,—At the last meeting of the Council you resolved j (
to ask me to publish official reports of your proceedings, to be furnished by a j:(
Committee of the Council, so that, in addition to the regular Spiritualist |j
report, another should be printed in the same journal about the same meeting. D
The ground on which the publication of two records of the same meeting j I
has'been thus requested, is that the report in The Spiritualist of June 23rd, j(
page 299, contains “misrepresentations,” is “unsatisfactory,” and is a
“ grievance.” None of the speakers, however, pointed out a single inaccuracy, 11
nor, have I been able to discover one, or to obtain precise information as to j /
the existence of a just cause of complaint. Further, I believe that the whole |(
report is entirely accurate. • ' ' * - ; j; |(
On these grounds I respectfully ask the Council to point out in writing any ij
of the errors or misrepresentations alleged by Mr. Rogers to exist/ and on j
which you based the resolution passed without the usual one month’s notice. i (
If the report contains anything which is not accurate, the public ought, in I j j
the interests of truth, to have the error distinctly pointed out. If, on the
other hand, the report is entirely accurate, and Mr. Rogers and others are in
unable to point out anything wrong, an unjust slur has been cast, and it [(j
remains for you to say what you will do in reference to the censorious and i j |
unchecked speeches made at the la.st meeting, also to say whether you intend j j j
to adhere to the resolution founded upon Mr. Rogers’ assertions about inac- I j j
curacies which do not exist. ' ' J ■ “ j?|
I will print this letter in The Spiritualist weeks before you receive it, to | (i
give members of your Council ample time to discover inaccuracies. I j
The report contains no opinions of the recorder. It contains only resolutions i \
passed by the Council, and speeches made by members of the Council— ; (
nothing more. I assert that every remark reported was actually made; that I (
every resolution recorded was actually passed; and that no member of the jj
Council can deny these points.' Why, then, blame the reporter? j|
Yours respectfully, William H. Harrison. \\
No written statement as to what is the grievance has been given, nor j?
was any specifically pointed out by anybody, except the solitary case of ; (
the few remarks made by the speakers on the abolition of the post of i
honorary secretary, not having been recorded. This solitary grievance ij
of a particular member is not adequate cause for the appointment of a j (
small committee with unusual powers sure to result before long in dis- j j
sension. We have printed none but well-founded and necessary criti- |j
cisms on public proceedings, and the said comments being just there is ij
nothing for those to lay hold of who are discontented that public work | j
cannot be done arbitrarily, without examination by observers. ! j
No adequate cause for the appointment of the committee before it was j j
established having been discovered, a foundation for the line of action is j j
being sought subsequent to its accomplishment, as may be seen from ! j
the following letter:— ; j(
W. H. Harrison, Esq.—Sir,—Allow me to correct some inaccuracies and j j
to supply some omissions in your report of the last meeting of Council. j;
1. The resolution of the Correspondence Committee expressing the opinion jj
that it was an act of discourtesy on the part of Mr. Harrison to write a letter jj
to the Council, and to publish it before they received it, was unanimous and I j
drafted by the chairman. I (
2. Mr. Rogers did not admit there was no error in the newspaper report in j j
question as reported by you in paragraph 8, but stated that he had never said i j
things attributed to him. vtMHK j}
3. It was not “agreed that every member should give in his own vote at j)
election of members of Council,” but that members absent from the general j j
meeting could vote for members of Council by sending in voting papers to j j
the, Secretary. i (
4. The rule prohibiting payment to members of Council for services ren- j j
dered to the Association was not as stated by you in paragraph 13, “ retained I j
by a small majority ; ” it was abolished, and an amendment which would have j j
been more effectual, was rejected by a small majority. !\
5. Paragraph 14. There never was a bye-law about foreign diplomas, only ; j
a resolution of council. It was proposed by a motion Which had been put into j)
the hands of Mr. Joy to incorporate this resolution in the rules. !(
Hoping you will correct these errors in your next issue, j j
Theresa Blakb, Sec.pro tem. j;
We reply to these points in the order of their importance, ij
As regards objection No. 4 it is truly said that there was an error in jj
our report, and fortunate would it have been for the Association had the Ij
efacts been as we stated. Hitherto it has been the rule of the National jj
Association, as with many other public bodies, that any person receiving j j
money for services rendered to the Association shall not be permitted to jj
sit at, or have a vote upon, the governing board. The adoption of such jj
a principle is a great safeguard against organisations becoming corrupt jj
and falling eventually into the hands of persons who do not work dis- ij
interestedly for the public good. On the motion of Mr. Dawson Rogers ||
this wholesome rule and this high principle were abolished at the last n
Council meeting, so that persons who receive money payment from the
Association can now sit and vote at its Council. Probably no practical
evil will just at present result from the alteration, since it merely gives
Mr. Morse and Dr. Sexton the right to attend Council meetings, and to
vote. But as time passes on, and more and more paid persons gain
seats on the board, it will be impossible to remove them without giving
great offence and causing contention ; after a still further lapse of time
they will probably become so numerous as to be able to command a
majority on a division; thus a great organisation will stand before the
world as a corrupt one, whereas it might have been saved had its
founders adhered to high principles, and not deviated from a straight
course to meet the petty conveniences of the hour. The abolition of the
safeguard will place a strong and true weapon in the hands of the oppo¬
nents of the National Association.
If at the present time that could be undone in the Church of England
which has just been established in the National Association—if disin¬
terested people had the administration of ecclesiastical revenues without
power to receive anything themselves—what gigantic abuses would be
reformed. Nothing would be heard of overpaid bishops and starving
curates, and traffic in the “ cure of souls ” would be known no more.
Objection No. 5 in Mrs. Blake’s letter refers to the following resolu¬
tion passed some time ago by the Council
That all letters denoting the possession of honorary, scientific, literary, or
university degrees or titles shall, when not conferred by any British society,
be followed by the name of the country and town to which they belong, before
insertion in any printed document, circular, advertisement, or placard of the
British National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said at the last Council meeting that the above
resolution never had been enforced, and never could be enforced. He
further objected to its being made a rule. In this latter point he was
quite right, because an organisation must have sunk very low when it is
necessary to make a formal rule to prevent itself from displaying
“bogus’’learned titles on its printed public announcements; a natural
sense of honour would guard any public body from committing an act
of the kind. The resolution was originally passed to prevent persons
adding a string of letters to their names, denoting great honours in the
realms of learning and of science supposing they had been obtained in
England, but which when obtained from abroad are, in many instances,
comparatively worthless, enabling a man to appear among the unin¬
formed as that which he is not. The custom in some learned bodies is
to reject such persons, even as ordinary members, and examples can be
pointed out. Thus the resolution of the Council is not nearly so
stringent as the course adopted by many societies, and its non-enforce¬
ment is a simple encouragement to people to parade sham learned titles,
with the sanction of the Council, in the midst of the names of honour¬
able people. The parading of these shady credentials does harm to
the movement; some time since a North of England paper was sent
us, which strongly condemned a Spiritualist for putting an easily pro¬
curable American title after his name, as if it had been an English one
of incomparably more value, and of course all the workers in the
movement in locality could not have been pleased thereat.
In reference to objection No. 2, Mr. Rogers did admit that there was
no error in the said report. He said that he admitted that “ every
remark reported was actually made—that every resolution recorded was
actually passed; ’’ he read these words from a printed letter, and said
that he admitted that the remark was true.
As to the rest of the statements in Mrs. Blake’s letter, they are merely
quibbles and overstrained attempts to find fault. For instance, No. 3
raises the quibble that a man sending in his vote by post does not give
it in himself. No. 1 finds fault without cause, for it is not of the
slightest interest to the public whether the three members of the Corre¬
spondence Committee, Messrs. Calder, Rogers and Bennett, were unani¬
mous or not, so it was not necessary to report the same.
Lastly, Mrs, Blake had no authority from the Council to send the
above letter or any other for publication; she is not even a member of
the National Association of Spiritualists. Miss Kislingbury being away
on the Continent for a month’s holiday, and Mr. Joy’s post of honorary
secretary having been abolished, Mrs. Blake, who is not a member of
the Association, was retained to look after the reading room and to post
on Miss Kislingbury’s letters to her for a fortnight; and for two weeks
after Mrs. Blake left, the offices were to be shut up altogether for want
of a secretary. She had no authority to write letters on the business of
the Association while she was looking after the reading-room, and the
above letter was written a week after her fortnight’s engagement was
up, and when she had not the right even to enter the premises, not
being a member, much less to write letters for publication on behalf of
the National Association, signed “ Secretary jaro'tfewt.” As she is not
a person who would grasp at such authority, this letter-writing act
must have been instigated by some unseen person, who has given
her instructions, and is gallantly shielding himself from public view
behind a lady whom he has pushed into a centre of public contention.
The. Council may very properly make inquiries as to who induced Mrs.
Blake, who is not connected with the Association, to write to a public
newspaper in their name, without their sanction.
We have received the following letter on the same subject, and here
and there in the same words, from Mr. Joy
To the Editor ofli The Spiritualist."
Sir,—In the absence of the secretary, and as the acting secretary objects
to the task, perhaps you will allow me to point out some errors and omissions
in your report of the above.
1. The resolution of the Correspondence Committee, condemning the publi¬
cation of your letter as discourteous, was reported as being “unanimous" and
was drafted by the chairman, Mr. Calder, of his own free motion, and
passed without amendment.
2. Mr. Rogers did not “ admit that there was no error in the report.” He
only denied having said that people had been made to say things which they
had not said,
Auct. 25, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
T 3. It wag not “ agreed that every member should give in his own vote at
election of members of Council,” b,ut that proxy papers should be done away
with, and voting papers for election of members of Council should be issued
to each member of the Association.
4. The rule prohibiting the payment of members of Council out of the funds
of the Association, for work done for the Association, was abolished (most un¬
fortunately, I think), an amendment of mine which would have made the
clause more effective, instead of abolishing it, being rejected by a small
majority.
6. There never was a bye-law about foreign diplomas ; only a resolution of
Council. The motion in my hands proposed to incorporate it in the rules ;
hut as the feeling of the meeting appeared unanimous that it would be better
placed in the bye-laws, and as I had no strong feeling on the subject either
way, I withdrew my motion by consent.
The above corrections are in accordance with the minutes, and with the
recollection of at least four persons who were present. I have not had an
opportunity of comparing notes with any others, but it is my impression that
all these points were perfectly clearly put, and understood by every member
present. A. Jot.
It will be seen that this is going over a newspaper report with a
microscope, making efforts to find unnecessary faults. In answer to
No. 1, it is not of the slightest interest to the public whether the vote of
a committee of three persons was unanimous or not, and a circum¬
stance not worth our while to take up space by reporting. As
regards No. 2, Mr. Joy’s statement is the reverse of fact. No. 3 is a
mere quibble, arguing that a man posting his vote does not give it in
himself. No. 4 was an error, and an important error on our part, and
the only one worth bringing into public notice, although the effects of
the record now demanded will be lamentable to the Council in the eyes
of posterity. As regards No. 5, whether the matter was a bye-law or a
mere resolution of the Council is not of the slightest interest to the
public, and not worth correcting. With reference to the last paragraph
the recollection of four persons is altogether wrong, and opposed to facts
as regards objection No. 2.
While there are no vested commercial interests in the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists it is easy to establish good principles, and at the
present time there is no difficulty whatever in deciding that persons
who have a money interest in Spiritualism shall never sit or vote at its
Council. But the Council has resolved that such persons shall hence¬
forth be admitted, and has thereby opened the door to the entrance of a
great flood of corruption in future years. When this evil has so grown
that it cannot be eradicated at all, or only rooted out at the cost of great
pain, those who will then suffer for the dereliction from principle of the
early founders of the National Association, may ask how it was that no
newspaper in the spiritual movement called attention to the planting
of the seeds of evil. Therefore, not as a matter of finding fault, but as
a matter of inalienable duty which we cannot evade, if we would, it is
thought to be necessary to place on record this day in these pages,
that the false step was pointed out at the time. Those who come
after us may ask who supported Mr. Rogers in this step, but as no
record is kept by the Council of the way by which the members
vote this useful information is lost; it is information which the members
of the National Association ought to possess in order to know whom to
vote for at the next election of members of Council. As matters now
stand, an individual may vote against the public interests of Spirit-
ualism all through the year, and the members know nothing about it,
and re-elect him at the close.
We have received the following letter on the subject from Mr.
Whitear:—
To the Editor of u The Spiritualist”
Sir,—I would suggest that the difficulty about the month’s notice might
be obviated thus
If three-fourths of the Council present are of opinion that a certain question
then mooted should be considered at once, without the month’s notice required
by the bye-laws, let it be done; but the decision then come to should be in
force only till the time of the next meeting of the Council, on which occasion
the subject should be redebated and voted upon. Any case of real urgency
would thus be fairly met, though the Council would not commit themselves
to more than a temporary decision of the question before them.
I would suggest, further, that any member of the Council who gives notice
of a resolution, should append to the resolution proposed a brief written state¬
ment of the principal reasons ho means to urge in its support—just the heads
of his argument.
Lastly, I want to have a record kept of every question put, with the names
of the Councillors voting for and against it; such record to be open to the
inspection of the members of the Association. How otherwise can I possibly
tell whether my nominees adopt a course which I, in general, approve ? and
how can I judge whether or not I think it for the interest of the Association
to vote for their re-election ? W. Whitear.
For a time we have printed somewhat in detail much about the busi¬
ness proceedings of the National Association, in order to let the public
see in what direction its legislation is drifting. When the evils which
must spring from such legislation appear and begin to give trouble, we
shall be able to point out that they were foreseen, and might have been
avoided. Henceforth, however, not so much space will be given to
such matters. A duty has been done in letting the public know in what
direction the business is drifting, and our pointing out that the legisla¬
tion is bad, has been construed into a personal attack upon Mr.
Dawson Rogers, simply because he was the originator of most of these
downward steps. But that is not our fault; it is the legislation we
criticise and not the individual.
The money cost of this legislation is worth examination. At a meeting
of the Prize Essays Committee, at which Mr. Martin Smith, Dr. Kenin-
gale Cook, Mr. Dawson Rogers, and Mr. W. H. Harrison were present,
the latter offered to print the prize essays at his own risk if the copy¬
right were given him; he did this because he knew that special heavy
contributions from a few persons had to be given to clear the expenses
of the National Association for the year, and as the public were then
getting up a munificent testimonial to him, he did not mind incurring
i
m
the loss.. Mr. Rogers instantly overruled this, by saying the National
Association must print its essays itself, but volunteered no reason for the
statement. Mr. Harrison said nothing more on the point. At the last
Council meeting a letter from Mr. Martin Smith was read, pointing out
that the loss over the Prize Essays now proves to be about £55,
Messrs. Everitt and Rogers once stated to the Council that there was
great dissatisfaction among members of the National Association in the
provinces because the Council let a spare room on their premises to The
Spiritualist newspaper; although they failed to establish or to carry
their point, the inharmony they established will probably lead to the re¬
signation of the office, and the taking of another elsewhere, at a loss to
the Association of the rent, namely, £25 a year. The Association will
then have to appoint a clerk, because of the loss of part of the present
services of Mr. Harrison’s clerk, thereby incurring further expenses to
the extent of say .£20 a year. What will be the additional expense of the
carrying out of Mr. Rogers’ plan of the printing of official reports by the
National Association, for on this point there has not been one word of
discussion ? Shall we say £20 a year ? Not having yet seen one of
the reports, we have not the slightest idea of the cost. Thus heavy and
wholly unnecessary expenses have been run up, towards which it is
probable that those who forced them upon the Council will pay little or
nothing, leaving nearly the whole cost to be borne by those who have
disapproved their actions all along, and who believe the measures to
have been bad in themselves, apart from their expensive nature.
Lastly, Mr.: Harrison having but a fleeting tenure of office on the
premises, has not placed therein his scientific apparatus, which might
have been useful to the Research Committee, and would last winter
have been the means of affording both entertainment and instruction at
the soirees. In the expectation that this apparatus would be placed
there, the Council insured the goods on the premises at £100 more than
would otherwise have been the case, so it is now necessary to revise the
contract with the insurance company to comply with the requirements of
the law.
Here we hope to close for a time the series of critical articles on the
business proceedings of the National Association of Spiritualists ; they
were commenced from a sense of public duty, and in them the following
points have been advocated
1. That the Council should not legislate on important questions the
instant they are brought forward supported by ex parte statements, but
should take time and give the members time to examine new propositions.
2. That the duties of the secretary should not gradually be delegated
to committees, so that gradually the secretary becomes nothing more
than a posting clerk, and no lady or gentleman fit to receive the mem¬
bers of the National Association would take the office.
3. That the abolition of the post of honorary secretary was injudicious,
because in the absence of the secretary there is now no equally efficient
person to do the work.
4. That allowing persons paid by the Association to sit and vote at
its Council meetings, is the opening of a flood-gate for the entrance of
corruption, and is the adoption of one of the worst features of the worst
priestly organisations.
5. That the permitting of the parading of “ bogus ” learned titles on
the printed public documents of the Association is not to its honour.
6. That before steps involving outlay of money are taken, their expense
should be considered.
7. That the members of the National Association ought to know how
their representatives on the Council vote on public questions.
Mr. W. Eglinton, physical medium, will return to London from
Devonshire on Monday. In consequence of engagements in town, he
will not be able to visit South Wales for the present.
The Right of Inquiry.—As we are endowed with reason, and as the
inspiration of the Almighty hath given us understanding, so we are
bound, by the very laws of our being, to extend our researches to the
utmost verge of our mental capacity. He who would curb the human
intellect, and say this or that is a subject with which we have no
right to meddle, and into which we have no right to inquire, is not only
recreant to duty as an intellectual and moral being, but betrays his own
ignorance, and proves himself to be a bigot.—Dr. J. B. Dods.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Labours.—Mr. Morse meets with
continued favour, and success as a trance speaker in the provinces. His
services are in great demand, and his time well occupied. Lately he
has been attending a series of meetings at Ossett, near Wakefield, during
which the local Spiritualists celebrated their third anniversary, by a
soiree, conference, and a series of three trance addresses through Mr.
Morse’s mediumship. Mr. Morse also visited Batley Carr. His en¬
gagements are as follows Halifax, Aug.- 27th ; Saltburn-by-the-Sea,
Aug. 28th; Newcastle-on-Tyne, Sept. 3rd and 4th ; Burnley, Sept. 10th;
Wigan, Sept. 17th; London, Oct. 8th ; Batley Carr, Oct. 14th and 15th.
Societies desirous of engaging Mr. Morse’s services for the autumn and
Winter terms are requested to write at once to him at Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Premonitions.—Mr. Samuel Kilpatrick, a prominent business man
of Williamsport, was found dead in a sleeping car at Philadelphia
this morning. The Gazette and Bulletin of to-day says :-r-Mr.
Kilpatrick left his home last night to take the 12.35 a.m. train for
Philadelphia. Prior to leaving home he said to his wife that he never
before felt so troubled about going away ; that it seemed to him as if
he would not return alive. She insisted upon him remaining at home,
but he said it was necessary that he should go, his business demanded
it. This morning, when Mr. William Butler, book-keeper for Mr.
Kilpatrick, went to the house of the deceased, on Piue-street below the
canal, Mrs. Kilpatrick told him that he need not tell her what was the
matter, for she had had a dream during the night which informed her
that her husband was dead.—Harrisburg (Fa.) Telegraph,
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 2h, 1876.
A SITTING WITH DR. SLADE. | |
BY ALFRED RUSSELL WALLACB. |jj
My stance with Dr. Slade, on August 9th, was very m
similar in its details to that so admirably and fully described !)|
by Serjeant Cox, in the pages of The Spiritualist Little jjl
is needed, therefore, but for me to confirm the accuracy of llj
that description. |)|
Writing came upon the upper part of the slate, when I j|!
myself held it pressed close up to the under-side of the table, m
both Dr. Slade’s hands being upon the table in contact with |jj
my other hand. The writing was audible while in progress. |||
This one phenomenon is absolutely conclusive. It admits |||
of no explanation or imitation by conjuring. |)|
Writing also came on the under-side of the slate while |j|
laid flat upon the table, Dr. Slade’s hand being laid flat on
it, immediately under my eyes. j|!
A chair was moved, and held for several seconds with the j |j
seat up to the table at the furthest corner from Dr. Slade, ji
while both his hands were clasped on mine, and his body ;!
was quiescent.
I was repeatedly touched and my clothes pulled on the )
side turned away from Dr. Slade; my chair was rapped on ]!
the back, and sharp taps came under the cane seat of my \
chair. ll
While Dr. Slade was holding the slate in one hand, the j!
other being clasped on mine, a distinct hand rose rapidly up j
and down between the table and my body; and, finally, j
while Dr. Slade’s hands and mine were both on the centre of m
the table, the further side rose up till it was nearly vertical, j
when the whole table rose and turned over on to my head. j j
These phenomena occurred in broad daylight, with the |
sun shining into the room, and with no one present but |j
Dr. Slade and myself. They may be witnessed with slight |
variations by any of our men of science, and it is to be j
hoped that those who do not take the trouble to see them
will, at all events, cease to speak disparagingly of the intel- |
lectual and perceptive powers of those who, having seen, I j
declare them to be realities. jj j
It is also not too much to ask that men who have pre- j
viously denied the possibility of such phenomena, and have
accused others of prepossession and self-delusion, should, j
after having seen Dr. Slade, make some public acknowledg- m
ment of their error. j j
AN EXTRAORDINARY MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
BY X. P. BARKAS, F.G.8. j j j
On Tuesday evening, August 15th, 1876, 1, by invitation, J j
attended a stance at the house of Mr. Petty, No. 6, Suffolk- j j
street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. The hour appointed for the com- ! j
mencement of the seance yiss eight o’clock, and I was re- | j
quested to be present a few minutes before that time. I j j
reached the house at 7.56 p.m., and found the company I j
assembled in the seance room, which is a small, plainly j j
furnished sitting-room on the first floor of the house—that j j
is, the floor above the basement story, and about 12 or 14 |||
feet above the level of the street. The room is 14 feet by j j
11 feet, and is entered by one door in the corner of the j !
room ; the window at the other end faces the main street, j !
One corner or recess of the room formed of the front wall jp
and gable end of the house was screened off by a dark j |
curtain suspended by an iron rod ; the window was entirely j j
closed by deal boarding; the door or entrance of the room j j
was locked, fastened from the inside, and fastened by a | j
sneck, so that there was no access to, or egress from, the j |
room. Across the window, and close to it, an ordinary j j
double ended sofa was placed, and the medium, Mrs. Petty, i j
a lady about forty years of age, stout and matronly, reclined j
upon the sofa, with her feet towards the curtained corner of J j
the room, and her head at the other end of the sofa, resting jjl
on a pillow. jjj
The company sat in the quadrant of a circle in the follow- jjj
ing order, and extended entirely from the end of the sofa on jjj
which the medium lay, round the two sides of the room jjj
close to the walls, thus preventing the possibility of either jjj
ingress or egress through the circle of the sitters. The jjj
sitters were in the following order—Mr. W. Petty next the jjj
sofa, Mrs, Hare, Mr. Lee, Mr, Hare, Mr. Barkas, Mrs. jjj
Mould, Mr. Mould, Mr. Fenwick, and Mr. Petty. During
the whole time the lamp was burning, and during the greater
part of the time it burned so brightly that I could see with
distinctness the features of all who were sitting in the room,
and the medium lying on the sofa. That all present saw
the medium on the sofa during the whole of the seance there
is not the shadow of a doubt.
The seance commenced at eight o’clock promptly. A
suitable hymn was sung, and Mr. Petty engaged in prayer,
after which the musical box played and we sat in silence.
After sitting for about twelve minutes the curtains screening
the recess began to move, and a tall white form presented
itself. This partial presentation took place five or six times,
at intervals of about one minute, and finally a tall female
form emerged from behind the curtains. She was draped in
brilliantly white raiment, which covered her after the fashion
of the clothing of the young girls of ancient Greece, or in a
manner resembling to some extent the models used by
modern artists. Over her head and face there was a thin
almost perfectly transparent gauze veil; on her shoulders
was a cape or cover, which descended a little below her waist.
She was clothed from the neck to the feet in a loosely-fitting
white garment; her bust, which was small and slightly de¬
veloped, was loosely covered by her cape and dress, and her
body and lower extremities were well covered by moderately
ample skirts. When she raised her arms, which she fre¬
quently did, the cape fell from them and left exposed, slender
arms, naked to the shoulder. She was as I have said slender,
elegant and sylph-like, and the medium, who visibly lay on
the sofa, is a stout and very fully developed matron. The
figure was the beau ideal of a lovely girl in the first flush of
womanhood; she moved about the room freely, gracefully,
modestly, with all the air and modest grace of a girl accus¬
tomed to good society.
The figure, on first emerging from the recess, walked
timidly into the centre of the room and looked modestly
round on the circle of sitters. She approached Mr. J.
Petty, and, after shaking hands with him, she went to Mrs.
Hare, who presented her with a bouquet of flowers, which
she gracefully accepted. She then went to Mrs. Mould and
received a bouquet from her, and another from Mr. Petty, who
sat at the end of the circle. Gathering these flowers in her
hands she passed behind the curtains, and on her next appear¬
ance, in the course of a couple of minutes, she was without
the flowers. She shook hands with and embraced Mr. W.
Petty, kissed Mrs. Mould and others on the cheek and
mouth, and nearly saluted the entire circle. When she
approached me, she proffered her right hand, which I took
in mine, and held it in mine while she kissed me on the
brow. The feeling was that of human lips, and the sound
that of kissing. Her hand was warm and moist. She
again entered the recess, and I observed—as I perceived
several times during this remarkable seance—that when the
psychic form remained visibly in our presence for about five
minutes, her garments became less white and substantial;
that her power of motion appeared to decrease ; but, after
entering the recess, on returning, her dress was brilliantly
white and her motions free and firm. She appeared to lose
power and solidity in the open room. She entered the
recess and reappeared in the midst of the sitters at least
twenty times during the evening, and always with the same
result. When next she presented herself, I was desirous of
ascertaining her exact height, and requested permission to
stand beside her; this she kindly granted, and I stood
before and within a few inches of her. I then saw that the
top of her head was on a level with my eyes, and that her
height was five feet five inches; that is, three and a-half
inches taller than the medium, who lay visible on the sofa.
After the measuring she sat down on an unoccupied arm¬
chair, which stood near the centre of the room, and while
she and we sat in a hushed and impressive silence, one of
the gentlemen present introduced the following words, which
were sung softly and earnestly by the company:—
When the hours of day are numbered,
And the voices of the night, &c.—(Hymn 143).
The hymn being finished she again retired, and re-appear¬
ing looked cautiously round the room, and when at a distance
from her medium made mesmeric passes towards her. The
t3eie spiritualise.
4S
Aug. 25, 1876.
medium, who had up to that time Iain perfectly still on the
sofa, began to move, changing the position of her hands,
and seemed to be under some peculiar influence ; the psychic
form or palpable apparition then approached the medium and
bending over her, embraced and kissed her fervently, and
for a short time medium and spirit-form were clasped in each
other’s arms. The psychic form then released herself from
the medium, and sat on the sofa near her feet. Again re¬
tiring and re-appearing she sat gracefully on the vacant
chair, and Mr. Hare rose and pronounced a very impressive
and appropriate invocation. The form again retired, and re¬
turning sat beside her medium, bent gently over her, took
her in her arms, and raised her up into a sitting posture.
In this position the normally and abnormally embodied
human beings clung together for upwards of a minute, and
then the medium was gently laid down upon her pillow.
This scene produced so powerful an impression upon one of
the sitters, that he burst into tears and sobbed like a dis¬
tressed woman. Again the spirit-form retired and re-appeared
and walked round the room, shaking hands with the sitters.
I requested permission to feel her pulse and she immediately
stepped towards me, extended her right hand, placed it in
my left hand, and permitted me with the forefinger of my
right hand to feel her pulse. It was feeble, but perfectly
recognisable, and beat at what appeared to be the rate of
seventy per minute. I counted the beats aloud as they
occurred up to twenty beats. She afterwards sat on the arm
chair, and was resting easily when we asked her to be kind
enough to write in our presence. I supplied a pocket-book
and paper to write upon, Mr. Mould supplied a pencil; she
took these, and resting the book and paper on the arm of the
chair, wrote ie Good night,” and I have now the paper con¬
taining the writing in my possession.
She entered the recess, reappeared, walked round the
room, shook hands with all who were present, permitted
some to feel her raiment, which, judging by feeling and ap¬
pearance, appeared to consist of the finest muslin ; after this
she sat on the vacant chair, and Mr. Hare delivered a very
suitable address of thanks to the visitor from the other world
who had kindly favoured us with her presence on many pre¬
vious occasions. She walked round the circle of sitters,
shook hands with each, shook hands with and kissed Mrs.
Hare, and audibly bid her “ Good night.” She retired with¬
in the curtains after having been with us for upwards of one
hour and a half, and at ten o’clock this wonderful seance closed.
During her frequent visits to the circle I had several
opportunities of seeing her face. On one occasion she stood
at an angle between me and the light, and I saw her face
and the profile of her features with great distinctness; the
skin was somewhat dark, the features clean cut, but small,
and remarkably well formed and refined. The weather was
almost unbearably hot, and after the last appearance of our
psychic visitor I slightly opened the door of the room and
took charge of it until the light was turned fully up. The
medium gradually and slowly recovered from the trance in
which she had lain the whole evening, and was so feeble and
exhausted that the two ladies present had to assist her across
the room. Immediately she left the sofa I took up my posi¬
tion near it, moved it quite away from where it was stand¬
ing, examined it carefully, drew aside the curtains of the
recess, took down the curtains, and did not discover any¬
thing that presented the slightest appearance of deception.
I examined minutely the walls and floor, and all were per¬
fectly sound and good. In my opinion there was not the
possibility of successful deception, nor was any deception
attempted. If I required absolute proof of the genuineness
and reality of these singular psychological phenomena I had
it previously, because with the same medium I had seen the
same form grow up in the middle of an open room out of
apparent nothingness, and then before my eyes again become
reduced to invisibility. There is no escape from accepting
the genuineness of the series of phenomena just described,
except that of absurdly denying absolutely the power of
arriving at just conclusions respecting unusual occurrences.
I refrain at present from expressing any opinion as to
theories, but as to facts I believe those just detailed are as
real, genuine, and objective as the fact that the river Tyne
flows past Newcastle-on-Tyne,
Wevrwstle-on-Tyne, August 19,1876.
I DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
BT ALEXANDER CALDER, PRESIDENT OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS. .
I had a seance with Dr. Slade to-day, when I received
the following message :—
Dear Sir,—Man is not simply a physical being; hence his aims
should not be solely physical. It is his highest duty to develop and
unfold the intellectual powers that nature has lavished upon him ; to
| cultivate and refine his spiritual part by a study of nature and her
laws. By so doing he will obtain the true end of his existence.—I am,
A. W. Slade.
Apart from the great truths which this message sets
i forth, the particular value to me is derived from the fact
that it was obtained while I held the slate entirely in my
I own hand, and untouched by Dr. Slade. I had asked
! whether I might alone thus hold the slate for writing, and
j the answer came (e I will try.” Then followed the message,
| which forms an appropriate comment on a remark I had
| previously made. Let me add that during this writing,
| which was, as usual, perfectly audible, Dr. Slade and I were
conversing on other matters.
i 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W., Aug. 22nd.
HEALING GIFTS AMONG THE ROMAN CATHOLICS.
BY J. M. PEEBLES.
When in Paris, a few years since, I Visited a Catholic
| church, famous for the “ miracles ” wrought therein. Hun¬
dreds of tablets with names and dates there to be seen,
| showed that within those walls by the “ touch of the priest,”
| the “ lame were made to walk, the blind to see, and the
I deaf to hear.” The Roman Catholic Church has never denied
i spiritual gifts, nor the reality of a present intercommunion
| between the two worlds. Of course, she proposes to mono-
! polise the power—all of which is quite human, to say the
| least. In West Hoboken, N.Y., the “ Passionist Fathers ”
I have a large monastery and church attached thereto, where
j many(t startling miracles ”—rather, cures have been wrought
! through the exercise oft( spiritual gifts.” A reporter of the
j New York Mercury gives a thrilling account of these marvels.
| The healer is Father Victor. He touches the forehead with
| a relic, or with his hand. The reporter gives an account of
I the healing of Mattie Trahay (of St. Vitus’ Dance), 141,
! Willoughby-street, Brooklyn. This is the closing of the re-
! porter’s version :—
On close questioning Mrs. Trahay, she did not personally know any
person who had been healed, hut she had met a good many who told of
these cases, and she had every reason to believe that it was all true.
iShe had perfect faith in it, or she would not have brought her sick
child so long a distance. And the little one—only six years and five
months old—was indeed sick. There was not an ounce of flesh on her
limbs apparently. Her hands were like claws, and the poor little wan
face looked prematurely aged with disease. On the return to the city
there were no symptoms of her peculiar malady; and as she stepped
| into a car at West-street and Barclay, her eyes brightened up as if the
healing power were at work in her veins. Children are not deceitful—
| they cannot be, if they try. Should the rich tide of health come imme-
| diately back to this poor little body, it will leave something for the
sceptics to explain. As for the fathers of the Passion, in the words of
Father VitaHan, “ We have nothing to say about it. We do our part,
and leave the rest to God. It may please Him to work the miracle, or
He may see good reason to withhold His hand. In any case we must
be content to keep at work. It only happens now as it did in the days
of the Apostles, when they brought forth the sick into the streets, and
laid them on beds and couches, that at least the shadow of Peter
| passing by might overshadow some of them.” And again, when “ God
wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul, so that from his body
were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the disease
departed from them and the evil spirit went out of them.” Some
ridicule us for what they call our superstition, but you see, after
] all, we only believe what all Christians believe eighteen hundred
years ago.
I have seen quite a number of well-authenticated cases of
healing through the instrumentality of Catholic priests. I
| believe them. But here’s the difficulty. When these cures
are wrought by Catholics, they are ascribed to God—and
| when wrought by Spiritualists they are ascribed to the Devil.
I Why is this ?—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
| Mr. Alfred R. Wallace is president of the Biological Section of
the British Association at Glasgow, as well as of the Anthropological
| Department of that section.
| Dr. Monck has been giving marvellous seances in Birmingham and
Malvern, particulars of which have been received by us too late for
I publication this week. Correspondents should send in their communi¬
cations in better time.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 25, 1876.
itottg. /  t!
A SCIENTIFIC ANTHEM.
The Royal Society should confer the Copley medal on the special corre- !
spondent of the Echo for his original researches “ on the passage of electric !
currents through wood;” and the following are the words of an original j
anthem which may be chanted on that or some other occasion :—
I’ll sing you a new; song, made by a modern pate,
Of an Echo “ interviewer ” who saw a scribbled slate,
And worked out his hypothesis at a truly rapid rate,
Did this special correspondent, who found a special wire.
To see the great “ magician,” for “ no conjuror ” was he,
He went into the drawing-room, and then to the “ ante,”
And then on two cane-bottomed chairs at the self-same time sat “ We,”
Beside himself, in plural, to find a hidden wire.
He saw a table ashy pale, and sat down by its side ;
His knee was clutched most forcibly, at which he loudly cried,
And rev’rence to an unseen force almost the pluck belied
Of the tim’rous correspondent, when looking for a wire.
He felt uncertain when the slate was lifted on his head ;
He did not “press the matter,” for his spirits all had fled,
And asked no explanation from the medium, who said—
“ You bore me, correspondent, please to show my hidden wire.”
The table-leg when turned up was found to show a mark,
At the spot where all the batteries were shifted in the dark.
“Galvanic apparatus must communicate a spark
Through wood, and head, and slate, to join some hidden wire.”
Now let us drink a health to Slade, and Simmons long live he!
And please to buy the Echo, for its on’y ’aypenny,
And try to understand the facts of electricitee
Which explain how slates are written on, though you haven’t found j
a wire.
©orresponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed i
to those of this journal and its readers.]
X TEST SEANCE.
Sir,—A lady friend having been greatly pleased with a seance held
with Mr. Colman on the 8th inst., begged me to send an account of it
to The Spiritualist, The principal object was to get test messages in j
proof of identity from a recently deceased friend of the lady in
question, who has been but a few weeks in England, and who was a
total stranger to both the medium and myself. The only article used
at the beginning of the seance was a small table. Through this, by
tilts, the spirit spelt out his name, one quite unknown to the medium; j
the name of the castle where the lady resided at the time of his death ;
and the name of the person he had dined with just previous to his
passing away. Afterwards a slate was used; direct writing was obtained, j
a message with the spirit’s name signed in full. Loud raps—I may say |
blows—were made on the table; a hand was materialised, which we |
saw, and which pulled our dresses vigorously; the table was levitated, j
and the lady also raised from the floor in her chair.. The slate was j
afterwards placed upon a what-not about three yards distant from the j
medium, the pencil laid on it, and direct writing was obtained ; time,
from four to five p.m., and the large window in the room wide open all j
the while. Mr. Colman, during the whole sitting, was in the trance,
conversing under control all the time, and was utterly ignorant of what j
had been done when he came to himself. Catherine Woodforde. j
90, Great Russell-street, Aug. 18th.
EDITORS and men of science.
Sir,-—It is true that I have, as your correspondent, H A Newspaper
Editor,” complains, written slightingly of the influential class to which
he belongs in connection with Spiritualism, and have doubted the
great utility of affording them special and gratuitous facilities for in¬
vestigation. Of course, there are editors and editors : men who have
not merged all sense of personal responsibility in the editorial “we,”
as well as those who are always ready to pander to popular prejudice
on this as on every other subject. But the former are comparatively
helpless. “The paper” is always the first thing to be considered.
Most editors conduct, not their own, but other people’s newspapers,
and, as trustees, they may fairly consider themselves bound to exclude
matter which may injuriously affect the reputation and popularity of
their journals—the value of the property entrusted to them. The
most we could expect from convincing these—if they would put them¬
selves in the way of being convinced—would be the negative result of
not allowing their columns to be made the media of misrepresentation
and ignorant ridicule. And this is a sacrifice we could by no means
expect from all of them. 1 suppose there is no subject which offers
such facilities for amusing “ chaff ” as phenomenal Spiritualism. A
few dark seances with Herne or Williams, a short acquaintance with
“Peter,” to say nothing of the bogus “materialisations,” of which
there is such a rank abundance, would afford materials which, dressed
up with the smallest amount of humour, or literary art, would make a
letter or a leader which few editors who meant to touch the subject at
all could bring themselves to reject, even if better informed themselves.
I often wonder it is not more cleverly done. I have not much talent
that way myself, but if you like, sir, I will, out of a large experience in
dark circles, send you a description that may possibly amuse your
readers, and show them how very ridiculous they may be made to ap¬
pear, even by a dullard like myself, in the eyes of an intelligent public.
How can we expect to escape when, as recently pointed out with indig¬
nation from the judicial bench, editors are ready to inflict the deadly i
i injury of libel, reckless of truth, fairness, private character, and feel-
i ings, rather than forego the attraction of a bit of smart writing ?
I I should like to ask, sir, how many editors of the metropolitan press
have availed themselves of invitations to the free seances with Dr.
Slade, provided by the liberality of Mr. Blackburn ? So far as I am
aware, these leaders of public opinion have not, as yet, justified the
expectations formed of them. The reason to my mind is plain. They
do not want to see what may give them an uneasy conscience in their
| future dealings with or refraining from the subject. They want to be
! left free to speak of Spiritualism and Spiritualists with supercilious
i contempt, or, at all events, not to come under a possible obligation to
run counter to the public prejudice. That being so, as I imagine, how
j stands the ca,se with regard to men of science, to whom, in affording
| facilities for investigation, I have urged that preference should be
given 1 At least three that I could name, the very foremost of their
| class, men of world-wide fame, have already promised, as I understand,
i to visit Dr. Slade. They are men from whom any communication on
j any subject would be admitted in the largest of type, and the most
conspicuous position into any newspaper in London, from the Times
downwards. They are men who will recognise personal responsibility
| as the result of their experience. The public testimony of any one of
| them would awe into respectful treatment of our subject all the editors
in England, who would see that the time for jesting had gone by.
| The public likes to be amused by smart articles^ but the educated
portion of it has a respect for the authority of its great men, which,
after all, it has not for the impersonal dignity of “We.” Even if an
editor here and there has the courage, as doubtless your correspondent
would have, to admit correspondence from ordinary investigators into
his columns, it would not much advance us. That John Smith says
he has seen something he cannot understand will excite but a languid
interest in the public mind. And the men whose communications
would have appreciable influence can obtain publicity for what they
have to say without looking about for an editor favourable to Spirit-
| uaiism. C. C. Masset.
1,
conjuror’s tricks.
Sir,—I have not seen in any of the Spiritualist periodicals any
indication, however remote, of the way in which Mr. Maskelyne
executes his pretended levitation. I cannot help thinking that any
observer would, like [me, have seen unmistakably, and without much
trouble, that the figure is a doll dressed up to represent Mr. Maskelyne.
The illusion would be better if the boy on the roof who says a few
words when the figure approaches within two yards of the ceiling was
a ventriloquist, and if the hall were larger, so that the stalls would
not be so near the figure—for the people in them, if they have keen
eyes, can perceive the substitution of the doll for Mr. Maskelyne, in the
momentary darkness that takes place for the purpose of getting more
power, as is stated, as well as the substitution of Mr. Maskelyne for the
doll at the end. B. P. J.
the influence of education upon mediumship.
Sir,-—At this moment, when material tests for material phenomena
are being so assiduously employed, it would, I think, be interesting to
the few who have a weakness for the intellectual standpoint of
Spiritualism to know whether they can say positively, and whether it
may be considered a law or principle, that educated and cultured
mediums, as a rule, receive communications of an educated and cul¬
tured cast.
It is very certain that the vast number of uneducated and uncultured
mediums, professional or otherwise, receive communications, as a rule,
in an exact, or nearly exact, ratio with their own mental inferiority.
Is it equally certain that the opposite mental condition is productive of
opposite, that is, superior results ? This is the question.
We know that the medium who has received the Spirit Teachings
(by Imperator), also Mrs. Tappan, and a few others, are educated
mediums, receiving corresponding communications, but there are no
doubt many of this class in private life whose testimony on the subject
would be valuable.
I have much admired in the Banner of Light the excellent idea of
those, whoever they may be, that set apart certain days for receiving
spirit messages, and the insertion of the messages in that paper under
the heading of “ The Spirit Message Department.” As distinct from
material phenomena, it may be disputed whether the sensuous pheno-
j mena are the more convincing. The Banner of Light finds room for
the short communications of about thirteen spirits in each number, who
all give their addresses and names. They are, of course, all Americans,
but it may be presumed that if the same were done in England many
proselytes would be made by this means. We can imagine the sur¬
prise and joy of a bereaved father or widow at receiving the authentic
communication of their son or husband in the columns of a newspaper.
The style too is recognisable in most cases, and even for uncon¬
cerned observers there is much information to be gleaned from the
different communications.
Could not some intelligent medium or society take up this subject
among us ? B. P. J.
August 18th, 1876.  
FIRST steps IN SPIRITUALISM,
Sir,—In my previous letters I dwelt on the difficulties of a beginner!
on the truths acquired notwithstanding such difficulties; and on the
great future opened up for further observation and discovery by the
preliminary facts established. I alluded to some of the stumbling-
blocks I had found in my first essays at inquiry, notably those of spirit
and medial deception, but did not touch very minutely on the parti¬
culars, or how I got over the difficulties they presented to my mind as
an investigator. I will now endeavour to explain this.
Aug. 25, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
As before stated, I have had unmistakable proof that abnormal effects j jj
are produced in the presence of some mediums, and that the same \\\
effects are sometimes produced by simulation, the medium being often |||
the unconscious agent of such deception. K|
As a case in point, a hand—certainly not the medium’s—has been '|(j
protruded from the cabinet, and been grasped by several of an audience; i / i
afterwards, at the same sitting, the medium has been released from his j i j
bonds by the unseen forces acting upon him, and, while still in a trance, ! (i
has been impelled to protrude his own hand (and perhaps to write) |jj
instead of the “spirit” hand that had previously been shown. This In
was a direct deception on the part of the unseen intelligence or spirit; (j
and yet this phenomenon was as wonderful an exhibition of power as I)!
the genuine manifesta,tion, for I have known bonds and seals to have ju
been overcome without being broken in order to enable this simulation I (I
to be accomplished, and the whole to have been reinstated in their m
original condition, showing no signs of disturbance. At first sight i j
there seems to be no object in such deception, but a little consideration i) j
will, I think, give a reasonable clue to the motive. The power (mes- j (j
meric or psychic) required from the medium to produce a materialised j(j
hand or form is very great, and rapidly exhausted, whereas the dema- j j j
terialisation of a little tape or string may be (and, we are told, is) much }) i
more easily accomplished. The latter, therefore, may be used as a more j (
economical mode of proceeding than the other, and in order to spare the |)
medium for further manifestations, the controlling “ spirit ” or power j)
uses a deception and supplements a real spirit materialised hand, by that of j (
the medium more easily obtainable. This gives us but a poor opinion j (
of the moral state of the controlling spirit, but it does not lessen the I)
phenomenal nature of the exhibition, which is as much a miracle as j j
regards matter, as if not mixed up with deception. i j
Various exemplifications of this tendency to economise power and j)
trouble at the expense of truth could be cited, and will be familiar to i (
nearly all inquirers ; it only remains to reconcile their existence with the i |
main fact of Spiritualism (as I must call it) which stands notwithstand- i)
ing such blots on its escutcheon. Granted the existence of a more j (
spiritual (because less tangible and visible than our own) world around | j
us, we have no right to people it with only the highest form of excel- j)
lence of which we can conceive; a spirit bound so close to earth as thope I (
must be who are able to communicate with us, need not be beyond the j)
pale of possibility, because something very much less than our idea of j)
an Archangel; we have formed upon no adequate grounds, an ideal i (
standard of spirit life, and reject every evidence that might tend to j)
prove our ideal wrong, without taking the least trouble to examine the j (
new facts presented. This is simply conceited folly, though I am aware j \
it is the practice adopted, as regards this subject, by our scientific men; j)
I prefer, however, to receive a fact as such when I can find it, and am |
not afraid to wait for the explanation until more accustomed to the new i
light discovered.
I say, therefore, that there is nothing impossible, or even so very j (
startling, in supposing that our friend or grandmother may be present, j <
and communicating in a very ordinary and common-place manner upon I j
very common-place matters; the probability is that such was the natural j <
tendency of our friend or relative when on earth, and it is much more j ]
in accordance with reason, and what we know of nature and natural I (
laws, to suppose that the original mind should still continue to show j i
itself, if able to communicate at all.
I do not insist that the proof palpable has been established beyond j,
question, of such identified personality in spirit communications, as I
think greater evidence and more extended examination on this point |
should be required before it is held to be definitively proved ; but I do
say that we have no right to reject all evidence merely because our de¬
parted friends fail to shew themselves as being suddenly possessed of
exalted minds or natures, which they certainly were not credited with |
when with us in their bodily persons.
The same holds good as regards the identity of the spirits controlling
mediums, who are generally, according to their own acknowledgment,
from very ordinary spheres of earth life, and not unlikely to be naturally
capable of all the deceptions laid to their charge. Why the spirit of a
clown, an actor, or an Indian, should be expected to shew the abilities
of a Bacon, a Shakespeare, or a Newton, or possess the moral excellen¬
cies of a saint or an angel, is more than I can understand; and we have
no right to draw a line in bur present state pf crass ignorance about the
whole subject, and say that, because the communications received do
not reach the ideal of excellence we have selected for them, therefore
we will reject them as evidence altogether.
“ Search diligently,” “ examine intelligently,” and then, when ascer¬
tained, “ accept fearlessly,” should be the principles guiding all “ first
steps to knowledge.” W. H.
DR. SLADE AND MEN OE SCIENCE. i)
Sir,—It is impossible to underrate the value of Dr. Slade’s medium- js
ship to the cause of Spiritualism. While he is in England, and as his j)
time is limited, every effort should be made personally, and by sub- K
scription, to bring men of science face to face with Dr. Slade and the K
manifestations through him. Spiritualists have to thank M. A. (Qxon.) I)
and C. C. Massey for the energetic manner in which they have taken i<
up this important idea, and I for one trust they will continue the work | j
they have so nobly taken in hand. To do this there must necessarily j (
be considerable expense, which in all fairness ought to be borne by the i<
non-practical workers, therefore I enclose my mite in a letter directed jj
to M. A* (Oxon.), at 1'he Spiritualist office, Great Russell-street, and if j,
expense is involved to a greater amount than the subscriptions, an j<
appeal through your columns, for such an object, would surely be ,j|
responded to in a liberal manner. h
Although it is a submission to have men of science “ sitting in j<
judgment ” upon the facts of the phenomena, yet for a Tyndall, Huxley, Ij
or Carpenter to admit these facts outside their theories of “ unconscious i<
force,” &c., would at once put it on a footing equal to, if not greater,
than any scientific problem of the day. “Agitate” ought to be the
war-cry till the men of science have been brought to examine these
phenomena, like thousands of clever, sensible men before them, and
who have been convinced that no theory otherwise than the “ spiritual ”
can account for the wonderful phenomena which have occurred from
time to time. John Hartlet.
Hyde, August 14th, 1876.  
MR. SERJEANT COX ON FALSE EXPLANATIONS OF REAL PHENOMENA.
Sir,—Some person has sent me an extract from an American paper,
in which one T. Frederick Thomas professes to explain how the phe¬
nomena witnessed with Dr. Slade are produced. As this will doubtless
be circulated here it may be as well to answer it by anticipation. I
read it with eagerness, hoping to find in it a rational solution of a per¬
plexing problem.
I referred only to what occurred with myself. Every reader will form
his own judgment how far the explanations of Mr. Thomas meet his
experiences. Mr. Thomas professes to be very exhaustive, and takes
each phenomenon in succession.
1. —Shaking of table and chair. This, he says, is done by placing the
toe on the floor, and rotating the heel rapidly.
Answer.—Certainly, it may be so done. But with me Dr. Slade’s
heel did not move, or I must have seen it, for my eye was upon his feet,
and they were not under nor touching the table, but outside of it.
2. —Light taps on the table. He says, “ I saw him produce these by
moving the edge of the sole of his slipper slightly up and down the table
leg.”
A.—Same as the last. His foot did not touch the leg of the table,
which I purposely clasped with my feet.
3. —The “ thumps ” on the table. These, he says, are readi pro¬
duced by kicking the under side of the table.
A. Yes, if he could kick without being seen as in a dark sitting. But
both his legs and feet were full before me in the light by the side of the
table, and not under it. It was absolutely impossible that he could have
kicked, or even lifted a foot without my seeing such a movement. Mr.
Thomas should try it.
4. Taps bn the slate. He says these may be readily produced by
tapping on the slate with the finger nail.
A.— It might be so done, although difficult to do without detection, see¬
ing that my hand was laid upon his when it was upon the slate, and I
could therefore feel the slightest motion of any finger.
5. —Writing produced on the slate when held under the table leaf.
This he explains by saying that the slate is rested on a ledge under the
leaf of the table, and then Dr. Slade writes with the fingers of the hand
that holds the slate.
A.—This would be practicable if the facts were as represented. But
Mr. Thomas resorts to the shabby but too common trick of misrepresent¬
ing the facts to fit his conclusion. He implies that the slate is merely
held under the table by one hand, and then the writing comes upon it.
But that is not the truth, nor the whole truth, and Mr. Thomas must
know it to be untrue. The slate is pressed tightly against the leaf of
the table, and with me it was sustained there by my hand as well as by
Dr. Slade’s, my fingers being laid upon his. There was no space what¬
ever between the ledge of the slate and the leaf of the table, much less
room for a human hand to hold a pencil and write a long letter covering
the whole slate. Moreover, the slate is not hidden from sight when
under the table. The eye is upon it, and sees that it is touching the
table leaf.
But Mr. Thomas is also dishonest enough to conceal the fact that
writing is also produced when tne slate is placed upon the top of the
table. No such conjecture is possible here. It is full before the eyes
and under the hand. He cannot even attempt an explanation of this
fact as he ignores it altogether. What language can fitly denounce such
dishonesty? He says, “Dr. Slade calls your attention to the fact that
‘ it is now writing.’ You see his hand perfectly motionless, yet you
hear very distinctly the pencil as it moves over the slate. This is ac¬
complished by scratching with the finger nail on the under side of the
slate.”
A. — Such a contrivance is simply impracticable when your hand is
upon his under the table, and still more so when his hand is flat upon
the slate on the top of the table, and full in sight. Mr. Thomas adds to
this, however, ‘ ‘ I cannot positively say that it is done in the manner I
have described; but I do assert that I am positive that I could do it in
that manner.”
Why, then, not do it, and exhibit to others how it is done ?
He speaks of Dr. Slade having gone back to a piano to clean the slate,
and suggests that he might then change it for one already written upon.
A.—He does not leave the table. He does not change the slate. The
slate was cleaned by a sponge upon the table, and never was out of my
sight for an instant.
6. —Writing on the slate when resting on the head. This he explains
by saying, not that it was, but may have been, first written under the
table, and the sound of the pencil, and the motion which he admits
that he heard and felt, are produced by Dr. Slade’s finger-nail.
A.—Possible, but very difficult to do without detection. In my case
the writing extended the whole length of the slate, and I distinctly felt
the scraping of the pencil as it moved from end to end, far beyond any
possible reach of a finger, which also had to hold the slate.
7. —The overturned chair. “An easy trick,” he says; “ easily done
with the medium’s foot.”
A.—Yes, if the chair be near the foot, and the foot out of sight. But
the chair that was lifted and floated before me was far beyond any pos¬
sible stretch of Dr. Slade’s legs, which, moreover, were full in my view
at the moment the chair was raised.
8. —Touches on the knee. Same explanation as the last.
A.—The same. The knee grasped was that/w‘£7}es£/r<wi Dr, Slade,
46
tfiE SPIEtTtTALiSt.
Am. 25, 1876.
and beyond his reach. Moreover, both his hands were lying upon the
table before me.
9. —The accordion played.
As I did not witness this phenomenon, I cannot answer his objection.
10. —The spirit hand. Explanation: That Dr. Slade moved his
hand from the slate while the visitor was not attending, and then thrust¬
ing it under his table, pulled his coat, &c.
A.—The hand came to me from the side of the table opposite to that
at which Dr. Slade sat. It touched me, and took my pencil on that
side, far beyond the reach of Dr. Slade’s arm. Moreover, both his
hands were upon the table at the moment, and my hands were holding
his when the hand took the pencil from the table, threw it upon the
floor six feet from the table, and then upon request picked it up and
brought it back and put it into my hand.
He proceeds to explain some other phenomena, which I have not seen.
But if his explanations of these are as disingenuous and as unsatisfactory
as those I have witnessed, he has not advanced a single step towards a
revelation of the mystery.
It may be, perhaps it is, marvellous legerdemain, and Dr. Slade the
most accomplished conjuror that ever lived; but certainly Mr. Thomas
has not succeeded in proving him to be so. The problem still remains
to challenge the investigation of the scientific as well as the curiosity
of the idler.
If any person will not merely say how it may be done, but show how
it is done, by actually doing it—which is the only sufficient proof of
imposture—he will deserve well of the world. For my own part I hold
my judgment in suspense until I have seen more of it.
Edwabd W. Cox.
21st August, 1876.  
THE BOARDING-HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—So much confusion and dissatisfaction having arisen from the
adoption of the word “ Home ” as representing my boarding-house for
Spiritualists, I have, with extreme reluctance, decided to drop the word,
and consequently for the future “ The Home ” will be known simply as
“ Mrs. Burke’s Boarding-house for Spiritualists, 8, Upper Bedford-place,
Russell-square, W.C.”
I have been told that our expressive English word “ Home ” is re¬
garded in the present case as anything but a happy selection, for on the
one hand it reminds a certain class of visitors of the various institutions
under that name (viz., “ Home for Incurables,” “ Home for Lost and
Starving Dogs,” &c.), and on the other it lays me open to numerous
applications from those really needing a home, or some other charitable
institution, which it is easily understood, with all my willingness, I am
quite unable to bestow.
I shall be obliged if you will kindly insert this notice in your next
issue. A. C. Burke.
8, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
MORE ABOUT “ 8. J. SABEL.”
Sir,—A gentleman from Dorking requests me to correct an ambi¬
guity in my letter about “ S. J. Sabel, Esq.and, though I am pleased
to see that you have already corrected the misprint in The Spiritualist
of 11th inst., it may be as well for me to confirm the correction. I
showed the name in your newspaper to Mrs. Sabel, daughter-in-law of
the deceased, asking her expressly whether the initials “ S. J.” were
correct, as I had found in the directory only “ Sabel, Israeland her
answer was, that “ S. J. Sabel ” was correct. About the ff Esq.,” of
course, she could give no explanation whatever, and referred me to
Mr. Max Sabel for explanation on that point.
The deceased, S. J. Sabel, enjoyed personally a good reputation as
to character, as I have learnt since.
From Mr. D. D. Home I have received a furious refutation of Mr.
Max Sahel’s statements concerning him. I don’t wonder at his indig¬
nation. G. Wiese.
2, Kl. Burgstrasse, Wiesbaden, Aug. 16th.
SPIRIT IDENTTTT.
Sir, —■ I was much struck last Thursday evening on receiving
Friday’s Spiritualist with a communication purporting to come from
Dr. John Forbes, through Dr. Slade’s mediumship, during a seance
with Serjeant Cox.
It will probably be remembered by your readers that Dr. Forbes is
one of the medical spirits who control Mrs. Olive. Having an ap¬
pointment at Ainger-terrace early on Friday morning, I first asked
Mrs. Olive if she had seen Friday’s >5?pn£wafos£. She replied, “No;
we never have The Spiritualist till Saturday afternoon,”—a statement
I have every reason to believe correct, having often noticed that The
Spiritualist never was to be found at her house till the Saturday. So
far I was satisfied as to her unbiassed state of mind. She was then con-
. trolled by the spirit I have known for many years past as Dr. Forbes. I
remarked, “ There is an interesting account in this week’s Spiritualist
about a sitting Serjeant Cox has had with Dr. Slade.” “Oh, is
there ? ” “ Yes ; do you know anything about it ? ” “ No, I do not;
I was not there."
I then read the accouut of the manifestation given in the name of
J. Forbes. The spirit ironically remarked, “ I am much obliged to
him for using my name,” and proceeded to assure me he had not
given the manifestation, alleging, first, that he could not manifest
through Dr. Slade; and, secondly, with all respect to Serjeant Cox, he
was not in spiritual sympathy with him, and therefore would not be
attracted back to him.
How can this question of spirit identity be settled ? I naturally
incline to believe the statement of the spirit I have known for so long
a time, and who has always acted out his character of a good, true, ad¬
vanced spirit; and, besides that? I believe he has been recognised by
those who knew him in earth life. There is one point we should be
j much obliged to Serjeant Cox if he would mention, which is, the exact
] time at which he had his sitting with Dr. Slade, as during part of the
| afternoon of August 8th Dr. Forbes could prove he was using his
j medium, Mrs. Olive, for healing purposes. F. Whitear.
| 5, Tavistock-place, August 16th, 1876.
I THE HYMN OF THE BROWN BIRD.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light."
Sir,—One morning, not being supposed well, I lay an extra half-
hour in bed, cherishing inadequacy, pending breakfast, known to be
coming in proper form and due time. Whatever social and political
good may accrue in the way of restriction of woman’s sphere of efiort,
I cheerfully concede her the right to plan, oversee, or even prepare
and cook breakfast! The daughters of Eve have enough to bear—I
would not deprive them of one of their enjoyments, and “getting break¬
fast ” always seems a pleasure to them, and 1 am generous enough not
to wish to deprive others of the satisfaction of doing so for me, which is
manly, I take it. “ ’Tis better to give than to receive,” saith the Scrip¬
ture ; I am magnanimous, and accept the second best, taking all I can
get. I have noticed the same disposition in others of my sex.
While I lay thus, placidly awaiting domestic developments, through
my window looking south, I saw, upon a tall tree, a sparrow, who
smoothed his plumage and then sang, again and again, his brief, twitter¬
ing notes. It was a gloomy morning, and I was not cheerful or
courageous; but the small brown bird gave me such an example of
cheer and bravery under adverse circumstances, that my reflections
were turned in a more healthy and hopeful course. As I mused the old
spell of improvisation came over me, and fast as speech the subjoined
rhymes passed through my mind. This was a year ago, and since then
I have read them over many times. Surmising that the hymn, as I
call it, may mean as much to some other troubled soul as it meant to
me—having committed it to memory—I send it to you, not as an
example of smooth verse, but as a specimen of improvisation and a
pious lesson
A brown bird perched on a tall, tall tree
"Very high up indeed sat he.
On the very tip-top of a blasted limb
He perched, and twittered his matin hymn.
There were clouds above, there was ice below,
There were sullen clouds and frozen snow;
And of the sunlight not one pale ray
Shone in to warm the dull wintry day.
Yet the small bird sat steadily, high on the tree,
And loud and long and sweet sang he ;
And he called for the birdlings of every feather
To gather, and gather, and gather together,
And sing with him through the Christmas weather.
#*#•*****#
Brave little heart in the feathered breast,
Thus in joy and hope mid storms to rest,
To sing in winter, as if he saw
The abiding force of the perfect law,
And knew kind providence would bring,
Through frost and death new flowers of spring.
Gesticulating with many a lurch,
Pert preacher of the highest church,
Thy service I see, thy hymns I hear,
And I heed the sermon that follows clear:—
“ 0, man ! the Power that fills my breast
"With joyous trust and perfect rest,
Permits no care to mar my life,
No vexing doubt with peace at strife;
But unto thee He grandly gives
A soul, to reason while it lives.
“ Shall That which heeds the brown bird’s song
Hear not thy prayer, or do thee wrong?
Shall the All-wise, creative soul,
Forget thee while it loves the whole ?
Shall sparrows ne’er unnumbered lie,
And thou in cold oblivion die ?
“ Life dawns from life, love speeds from love!
Thy soul an oversoul doth prove;
Thy reason but a glorious ray
From primitive, eternal day.
Come, join thy morning hymn with mine,
And make the universe our shrine.”
And so while the birds sing, even though tempest-tossed, we will
accept their prophesying, confident the crocus will succeed the snow,
and the violets in time perfume the air, modestly announcing the rose,
perfect queen of summer. No mere, while spirit voices echo answers
to the questions of our hearts, and palpable presences of the disembodied
move among us, can we doubt the eternal summer, in whose zone dwell
those already resurrected awaiting us. Ed. S. Wheeler.
“ART MAGIC.”
Sir,—In your issue of June 14th I expressed my opinion, as a
Spiritualist, of a book published in America by subscription, and
called Art Magic.
A very long letter from Emma Hardinge-Britten appears in The
Spiritualist of August 18th, in which I get, in the most contemptuous
and sarcastic language, a considerable lashing for writing that letter.
This, of course, was anticipated, because experience has taught me
that every one must expect attacks of this kind who is bold enough
Aug. 25, 1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
47
to express an unbiassed opinion. For this reason I should have taken
no notice of Mrs. Britten’s letter, except that she asks us a question,
falls into an error, and affords a piece of information of some value
to us all.
Her question is, with reference to Art Magic, What is it that con¬
stitutes the real value of a book ? My answer is, its practical utility
in being able to define what it attempts to teach ; and I again assert
that Art Magic, to the scientific student, or strict searcher after truth,
is a useless book, although it was written, as Mrs. Britten assures us,
£jj by an accomplished magician and a thorough adept in all the magical
arts.” It is useless because it contains only that kind of information
-—to say nothing of superstition—which no one can verify, and which
the magician himself does not attempt to explain. Her error is, that
only poor theological bigots could express an adverse opinion of her
work, therefore presumes that I must be a devoted Bible student.
Here she is quite wrong, as there is no man in the world more free
from creedal bias than myself. Yet, if it were otherwise, I do not see
how a study of the Bible could prevent me forming a just opinion of
Art Magic.
Her information is, that in spite of all consequences, there is some
talk of issuing another edition of Art Magic, so that it may be sent
broadcast over all the world. This means getting rid of as many
volumes as possible to anyone that will buy, and I suppose at a price
to suit all parties—say about three or four shillings each. This would
no doubt be highly gratifying to the five hundred people who paid
about twenty-four shillings each for their books, and who, I believe,
were promised, when their patronage was solicited, that only five hundred
should be printed, so that they alone would have the satisfaction of
possessing so valuable a book.
Personally I have always had the greatest respect and admiration
for Mrs. Britten, and when Sunday after Sunday I have sat spell-bound
at the Cavendish Booms, listening to the grandeur of her eloquence,
and carried away by the power of her logic, I confess I used to think
she was almost an angel; yet anyone who reads her letter of August
18th will see how bitter the best of us may become when opposed in
our notions, especially if any material interests are involved.
  John Bouse.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING-,
Sir,—On Saturday, August 19th, I had the pleasure of a private
sitting with Dr. Slade, and was greeted with the phenomena usually
occurring in his presence. I heard loud thumps, which made the
table jar sensibly. I felt pattings on my knees and legs, usually on
the side farthest from Dr. Slade; my coat-sleeve was pulled, hands
were rapidly darted up between my waistcoat and the table, a chair
near the comer of the table furthest from Dr. Slade, and beyond his
reach, was lifted up about a foot, shaken, and tossed over on its side.
Such occurrences as these have lately been so well described in your
columns that I need say no more about them except that from the
position in which Dr. Slade was sitting I am certain it was impos¬
sible for him to have caused what I saw, heard, and felt, by any
movements of his body.
Having said thus much, I should like to make a few remarks on
what was peculiar to my own case, or which did not precisely har¬
monise with what has been recorded by others, omitting, however,
for brevity’s sake, some quite unimportant details.
Dr. Slade held the slate, with a scrap of pencil upon it, under the
table, and requested Allie to write something. Almost immediately I
heard the sound of rapid writing on the slate, which continued some
time, and when the signal of having finished was given, the whole
side of the slate was found covered with writing, the lines being straight,
parallel, and at even distances—as accurately at least as most writers
would produce them in the light, and the writing was as legible as that
of most letters. I have received many letters worse written. The
writing was a message containing eighty-one words, apparently ad¬
dressed to me, and was signed A. W. Slade. During the process of
writing Dr. Slade was holding the slate under the leaf of the table, and
close against the wood, with his right hand, and in such a position it
was evident he could not be the direct agent in its production. Both my
hands were placed flat on the table, a foot or more from the side at which
Dr. Slade was sitting, his left hand being placed upon my two hands.
After the writing had been going on some time Dr. Slade raised his
hand from mine, and instantly the sound of writing ceased, but upon his
again placing his hand on mine it recommenced. When the writing was
examined, we found that two short words at the end of one line were
repeated at the beginning of the following line, and from the position of
this repetition on the slate, compared with the time occupied in writing
the whole, I think it might have occurred at the time Dr. Slade removed
his hand from mine.
In the interesting letter from Serjeant Cox, printed in The Spirit¬
ualist of Aug. 11th, after describing a very similar manifestation, the
author says, “ Here, then, was a chain or circle formed by my arms and
body, and Dr. Slade’s arms and body, the slate being between us, my
hand at one end of it, his hand at the other end, and between our
hands, and upon the slate that connected them, the writing was. When
the chain was broken, forthwith the writing ceased. When the chain
was re-formed, the writing was at once resumed.”
In the arrangement here described I should not have observed a
continuous circle, for I should have imagined that both the slate itself
and the dry wood forming its frame would have been non-conductors.
If the hands had been joined, right with left and left with right, the
case would have been very different. In my case there certainly was
no chain or circle, as Dr. Slade’s left hand was placed on my two hands,
and I was not touching the slate with either hand.
I distinctly observed the discontinuance and resumption of the
writing, and it is indeed a curious fact, as the learned Serjeant says,
and requires consideration; but may it not have been a merely wilful
K| act on the part of the agent who was writing? Has Dr. Slade ever
|)| obtained writing when in a room by himself, or with another person
m not touching either the slate, or the table, or his person? If this has
Hi ever occurred, the circle is not always a matter of necessity.
;)] I will now try to describe what was to me the most striking and
jjj interesting occurrence in this memorable half-hour.
](] Dr. Slade desired me to write the name of a friend on the slate, which
]| he had previously cleaned with a damp sponge, and on which I saw
|(| there was then no writing. I accordingly wrote 1 Elizabeth Whitear”
Hi -—the name of a sister who departed this life more than twenty-five
m years since. In doing this, I carefully held the slate so that Dr. Slade
i(| could not see what I was writing, and handed it to him with the writing
Hi. downwards. Dr. Slade then held it under the table, with a bit of
j|j pencil upon it—my writing being downwards. In this position no
j jj writing was obtained. Dr. Slade then put the pencil on the table, and
j jj placed the slate over it, still with the writing downwards, and in making
j j this change of position, I observed that he did not turn the slate up, or
Hj make any attempt to see what I had written. I soon heard some one
iji writing, and, on the slate being turned up, a few words were found upon
j (j it, and following them was the name “ Elizabeth W.”
I (j The slate was then cleaned and replaced upon the table, and on
jjj examining it again, after a short interval, there were some words, with
j|j a name which appeared to be “John,” but so indistinctly written that
i(j Dr. Slade rubbed them out, and requested that they might, if possible,
ijj be written again more clearly. After another interval, some words,
{ which I believe were the same, were found on the slate, with the name
l| “JohnW.”
i|j During all this time the slate was not out of my sight, and I am
jjj perfectly certain Dr. Slade had not seen my writing until after the
jj unseen power had written “ Elizabeth W.” John was the name of a
j | i brother of mine who passed from this life more than sixty years since,
ijj and whose name had not been mentioned by me to Dr. Slade,
jjj I conclude by saying that my interview with Dr. Slade commenced
iji at 11 a.m., in full light, and that I saw not the smallest reason for sus-
jjj pecting that he acted otherwise than in perfect good faith throughout,
jjj W. Whitear,
iji High-street, Hornsey, August 22nd, 1876.
iji Dr. Slade states that he has not had a single failure since his arrival
Hj in London. He is doing much good to the movement, for stubborn
j j j disbelievers visit him daily, and leave with a strong interest in Spirit-
j j j ualism awakened in their minds.
jj A Haunted House.—The event of the day at Compiegne is the
j j i reported appearance of the devil in the house of a Sieur Cousin, an
jjj inhabitant of that town. The promenades and avenues of the ex-
j j j Imperial residence, generally much frequented on summer evenings, are
j j j almost all deserted, as the people who are in the habit of repairing there
jj congregate outside the house in the Bue St. Joseph, from the interior
jjj of which the devil makes manifestations of his presence. This house is
j j j inhabited by a carpenter and his family, who for the last few weeks have
jjj been unable to get any sleep, except at rare intervals, on account of the
jjj noise which is being made by the spirit of evil. As a general rule the
jjj manifestations do not begin until after the lights are extinguished,
ijj Last Sunday they commenced as usual soon after ten o’clock, and were
ijj so loud that an old woman sleeping in a neighbouring house thought
ijj that a shepherd who had died in the house a few years ago was holding
jjj an infernal Sabbath in his former residence. The commissary of police
ijj was called up, and came with two of his agents to search the house,
jjj A wardrobe was suspected of harbouring the devil, but when opened
j j j there was not so much as a smell of sulphur. The commissary of police
jjj spent the whole night in the house, but without making any discovery,
jjj The noise commenced the next evening, and the house was again
iji searched, but to no purpose.—Tall Mall Gazette, Aug. 2nd.
Ijj Will of Miss Harriet Martineau.—The will (with two codicils) of
jjj this lady has, says the Birmingham Post, just been proved by the
jjj executors, Mr. Thomas Martineau and Mr. Francis Bobert Martineau,
jjj both of Birmingham, the nephews of the deceased. The personalty is
jjj sworn under £10,000. The will is dated March 10th, 1864, and the
jjj codicils respectively June 17th, 1865, and October 5th, 1872. The
I j j testatrix gives her property and residence, The Knoll, Ambleside, to her
jjj sister, Mrs. Higginson, of Liverpool, and her children. The personalty,
jjj with the exception of a few gifts to friends and to an old servant, is
ijj divided equally amongst her brothers and sisters living at the time of
jjj her decease, or the children of those who have died previously. The
ijj testatrix gives her books to her brothers and sisters, or, if deceased, to
jjj their children, to be divided as they may agree. All the manuscripts and
jjj private papers, and all copyrights belonging to her, the testatrix gives
jjj to her nephew and executor, Mr. Thomas Martineau, upon trust to con-
j jj duct the revision and publication of them, according to her instructions,
jjj or failing these, at his own absolute discretion, for the benefit of the
ijj estate; and in connection with this bequest the following direction
jjj occurs: “I emphatically forbid the publication of any private letters
jjj written by me, and do strictly enjoin upon my executors to prevent by
jjj all means at their command any such publication.” The will contains
jjj the following peculiar provision: “It is my desire (she says), from an
I j j interest in the progress of scientific investigation, that my skull should
ijj be given to Henry George Atkinson, of Upper Gloucester-place, London,
l)j and also my brain, if my death should take place within such distance
iji of his then present abode as to enable him to have it for purposes of
iji scientific observation.” By the second codicil, dated October 5th, 1872,
iji this direction is revoked; “but (the codicil proceeds) I wish to leave it
jjj on record that this alteration in my testamentary directions is not caused
ijj by any change of opinion as to the importance of scientific observation
jjj on such subjects, but is made in consequence merely of a change of
j (i circumstances in my individual case.”
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 25, 1876.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS. j |
Mu. J. N. T. Martheze, of 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, |f|
treasurer to the English Committee formed to support the m
testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis, acknowledges with m
thanks the receipt of the following amounts, and will be glad |||
to receive further contributions :—Sir Charles Isham, £1 Is.; j(j
Mr. H. Collen, £1; Mrs. Berry, £2 2s.; Mr. P. R. Harrison, |)|
£3 3s.; Miss Ponder, £1 Is.; Mr. Charles Blackburn, £20; |
Mr. J. JST. T. Martheze, £25. m
FREE SEANCES TO SCIENTIFIC MEN AND THE PRESS. ||
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, near Manchester, |)l
has liberally put in action another plan calculated greatly to | |
benefit the Spiritual movement. He has made a contract |(!
with Dr. Slade, and remunerated him to give a number of ;jfj
free seances to a moderate number of influential men of ||{
science and to leading literary men connected with the metro- ! j
politan press, by means of invitations issued by Mr. W. H. )>|
Harrison. Hot a few have already had seances. The Times, jyj
Telegraph, Daily News, and Standard were officially invited {(|
to see the unexampled phenomena which take place in day- jij
light, but not a single representative attended, and the latter |(|
journal recently vilified Dr. Slade in the most unmeasured I !
terms, without having attempted to witness the facts. |||
A Spirit Message.—The following message was recently given by j>|
direct spirit writing through Dr. Slade’s mediumship:—“Dear Friends— j i i
Out of death cometh life. How strange and yet how true, that these jtj
bodies, which belong to dust, and bear the marks of death constantly | Ij
upon them, contain also the germ of eternal life. And when the Great |f|
Master of all things seeth fit to call that life to Himself, then nature j j ]
becomes as it were disbanded, and the spirit takes its flight homeward j ) j
and heavenward. Yes, you must all be ready for that call, and to be |(|
ready and willing it is quite necessary to understand all you can of this : (]
truth. It will be a beacon light to you in the darkest hours.—lam, m
truly your friend, A. W. Slade.” ij
“Revival’’ Meetings.—The influence of emotional religion in de- |U
stroying the balance of reason, the apparent craving entertained by the m
nation for more racy teaching than is supplied by the Church, and the i(j
implied uselessness of that institution herself, if she fails to carry out (
the purposes she was evidently instituted for; the spread of luxury and |>j
self-indulgence even into the ordinances and principles of religion—all m
these are questions pregnant with meaning, and fraught with interest, I (i
not only to this, but to future generations. In the words of a great liv- j?i
ing writer, to whom such hysteric enthusiasm is hateful, religion “ is a jf|
meek and blessed influence, stealing in as it were upon the heart; it |(|
comes quietly and without excitement; it has no terror, no gloom in its j
approaches; it does not rouse up the passions; it is untrammeled by the j ?j
creeds and unshadowed by the superstitions of man. ... It uplifts the |||
spirit within us, until it is strong enough to overlook the shadows of our j|j
place of probation, and breaks, link after link, the chain that binds us |(|
to materiality.”—The World. l|i
The Spirit.—Thus it would appear that there are two kinds of matter i / i
in us—one gross, which constitutes the outer garment, the other fine |(|
and indestructible. Death is the destruction, or rather segregation, of S|
the first—of that which the soul leaves behind ; the second disengages f?j
itself and follows the soul, which thus finds itself always clothed in a i u
garment, and this garment we have called perisprit. This refined matter, j jj
extracted, so to speak, from all the parts of the body to which it was tied jyj
during life, retains the impressions of carnal body; this is the reason jci
why the spirits see one another and appear to us such as they were ! U
whilst living in the flesh. But this refined matter has neither the i|/j
tenacity nor the rigidity of the compact matter of the body; it is, if we Ixj
may so express ourselves, flexible and elastic, and, in consequence of Kj
this, the form which it takes, though shaped after the outlines of the j)j
body, is not absolute ; it accommodates itself to the will of the spirit j(i
which can impart to it any appearances it pleases, whereas before the j (i
solid envelope offered insurmountable obstacles to such a transformation; ji/ji
the perisprit, however, when once liberated from this clog, expands, l(j
contracts, and transforms itself in accordance with the desire that sets jv
it in motion.—Allan Ear dec. : , j:fi'
What a Medium told Lawyer House.—A marvellous string of in- Kj
cidents in the career of Orson A. House, the divorce lawyer, who was ijj
killed by his wife some time ago, are finding their way into print. j )j:
Among the most noteworthy is one relative to a visit made by House, j (j
in company with a client, to Charley Foster, the spiritual medium, ; )i
who undertakes, for ducats to him duly delivered, to call spirits from the j Jj
vasty deep, and reveal past, present, and future. After the usual pre- ;(j
liminaries, House (to satisfy his client, who was himself a Spiritualist) j vj
asked Foster to inquire of the spirits how he could prove the infidelity : )\
of the client’s wife, for whom he was trying to obtain a divorce. The \l\
medium turned savagely on House, and denounced him as everything jv
vile. “Why,” said he, “at this moment above your head hangs the j)i
spirit of destruction. From a divorce suit of your planning will come to j (i
you a violent and dreadful death. The wretchedness you have planted I n
in so many hearts is growing like a rank weed in your own.” House |)i
was much incensed by this affair, and ,never omitted an opportunity Ki
afterwards to denounce Spiritualism as a fraud and humbug. But his j)|
tragic death by the hand of the woman for whom he had procured a
divorce from another husband proves the fulfilment of Foster’s prophecy, i (j
—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
In America a form of manifestation is common—as yet unknown in
England. A medium entranced upon a public platform gives evidence
that in that state he sees spirits related to strangers to him, present in
the audience. The following extract from The Banner of Light shows
how such tests were recently given at a public meeting through the
mediumship of Mr. J. Frank Baxter;—
Mr. Baxter arose; it was not he said, his wish at this time to
further detain them, but an irresistible impression was upon him, and
he must give way. He then spoke the name of Fannie A. Harrington,
who said she was the daughter of Mrs. Lucretia Harrington (adding
that her parents perhaps would be recognised better by the name of
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Harrington), and asked if the mother remem¬
bered having an impression recently that she heard “ footsteps on the
stairs,” as the song said which she (the spirit) had impressed Mr.
Baxter to sing during the morning session.
Another influence asked—“ Do you remember Maria 1 Maria
Stockwein I am here. I haven’t forgotten the old Lyceum Guide.
I . want James—James A. Stockwell, of Foxboro’, my husband—to
know of this, and that I live, and am often present with him. There
are some folks here from Foxboro’ that people wouldn’t much expect
to see in a Spiritual Camp Meeting. Let them take this home to
think upon.” This message was immediately recognised by several
parties in the audience, who so stated. The husband referred to was
reported as being a doubter of after-existence, though an investigator
concerning it, and his wife during her life was known as an earnest
worker in the Children’s Progressive Lyceum of Foxboro’.
Another intelligence gave the name of Mary Ann Searle, of Norfolk;
she was described by “Attica,” Mr. Baxter’s attendant guide, as being
a very old lady, who had for six years been bedridden by reason of
paralysis, and who for at least a year previous to her death had been
unable to make herself understood in intelligible speech. This spirit
assured her friends that that last year, though apparently so hard for
her to bear, was the pleasantest of her life, because she was during the
time surrounded by those loved ones who had preceded her in the
process of physical change. She bade those parties in Norfolk who
accused her of harbouring “ witches ” when she used to take in mediums,
to look into the matter of spirit return, and be convinced of their
error. An old gentleman in the audience at once arose, and after
stating that Mr. Baxter was an entire stranger to him, acknowledged
that the lady when alive was his (the witness’s) wife, and that all the
points cited were correct.
Mr. Baxter then explained in a few words to those present who did
not entertain belief in Spiritualism that he (B.) was a stranger in the
neighbourhood, and knew not one of the parties mentioned, either
living or deceased, neither was he previously cognisant in any manner
of any of the circumstances related through his instrumentality. He
asked them to reflect on the matter when they reached their homes,
and see if they could compass any reasonable solution—other than that
of spirit return—for what they had witnessed.
By request Mr. Baxter repeated the song with which he closed the
morning session, and the meeting adjourned; the visitors sought the
ears for their homeward journey, and the “ campers” ascended “ the
brow of the hill whereon their city was built,” for a night’s repose
in tents whose sheltering qualities the heavy and almost continuous
sheets of rain during the day had most severely tested..
Monday, July 24th, passed, and on the 25th, which was a regular
picnic day, quite a number of pleasure-seekers visited the grove from
various localities. In the morning a conference was held, over which
A. E. Carpenter presided, Dr. T. A. Bland, Dr. H. B. Storer, and
others addressing the people. In the afternoon Colonel Meacham
wrought up the feelings of a good sized audience to the highest pitch
by his vivid delineation of the sad scenes attending the Canby massacre
on the 11th of April, 1873.
The Oldham, Rochdale, and Ashton-under-Lyne Spiritualists held an
out-door meeting on Sunday, August 13th, 1876, at Paddleworth. Mr.
Thos. Kershaw, of Oldham, presided. Mr. J. Harrison was entranced,
and offered an inspirational prayer. After the meeting tea was pro¬
vided, and an adjournment to the Temperance Hall, Uppermills, was
made, where a crowded meeting was held.
Sunday Lectures’in Liverpool.—Last Sunday Dr. William Hitch-
man conducted the Spiritualist services at Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool.
He spoke of the mission of Spiritualism, as destined by the force of
its natural truth, to raise, ennoble, and purify mankind. It demon¬
strated at the present time—to the acknowledged satisfaction of some of
the most hard-headed men of science in England—that an unseen
universe exists, whence visible and invisible intelligences commune
with mortals. The fact, he thought, was chiefly of interest as proving
that before us lies an exhaustless mine of wealth, whose fairest jewels
would alone be found in that glorious light which truth and virtue give
to pure unselfish souls. Mr. Samuel Pride read a moral lesson, which
he called “ Heaven,” urging the necessity which now exists for example
as well as precept on the part of all consistent Spiritualists. Mr. John
Ainsworth followed, with a spiritual lecture on ihe virtue of “Charit¬
ableness,” pointing out the desirability of being liberal-minded to all
men, to lead a righteous, sober life, and thus act towards God and
humanity with religious sentiment. Mr. Thomas Lunt conducted the
musical services with his customary skill and with general approval.
In the evening Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy gave an address on “ Content¬
ment of Heart,” consisting of prose and poetry from various sources,
interspersed with original comments, expressed with fervour and
elegance. The lectures were listened to by good audiences.
Aua. 25, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-atreet, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O,
tFor purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit-
naiists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND,, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6<L
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT- |
UALISM, ‘ by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6S.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well Written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound. With gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her.
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the efiect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, ios. 6a.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their Seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. :
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAV EN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair-
. voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
,7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.-
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Kev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Cd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET —3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Wanen Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
„ II.
„ HI. „ •
„ IV. ,
,. V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-reourring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence , . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
16 0
7 6
. 7 6
, 7 6
. 7 6
i 7 6
. 7
. 3
. 7
. 6
. 7
. 2
. 3
. 3
. 7
6
6
6
0
6
6
6
6
6
3 6
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, .
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ’ 12 #
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . .... . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ... . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools ... , . 16
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzi
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The lato
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF ME. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative'cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Rehgious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Hohnfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E. T.
Hallock, 2s.
IV
THE S PIEIT IT A LIST,
Aua. 25, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, > AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News-
aper Branch Office, .88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W:0. • ' .
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
. . . ■ Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
• LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex-
tenced her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems ■ of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
' the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium-is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtray ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. -, The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates tjhe character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street.. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
6 f subscription, in advance, 18s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Rbvieweks’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.’’—CAnsfiare World.
■ “The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readei s, and for those who may be inclined to take the woi k
in hahd, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive eviden ce is adduced in siipport of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—jRock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser-
' vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
• It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. ; The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
■ Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this' year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.G. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER. BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
[ The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
: Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
; wittn ut -the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on tbe principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.,
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
I Mahaobr—Mrs. A. O. Burke.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Fsq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-rd., <iloucoster-gate, Regent’s-pk.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent. Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley,Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Ponman-square
John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thos. Slater, Esq., 19,Leamington-rd.-villas, Westboume-pk.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.O.
The follovain sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq   £60 0 0
A. V. H      30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq.     25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq     25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq      25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq.....      25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq  20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann   .'....I.......'.   20 0 0
James Wason, Esq.  1 „..., 20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg        19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq.     10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq.    10 10 0
A Friend      10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire      10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq    10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours    10 0 0
W. C. Oopperthwaite, Esq    10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq     10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq.......'  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq —     10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq      10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings       5 5 0
Mrs. Berry ;....’     5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq.......:.;...'    5 5 0
W. S. Godbe   .....I    5 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq.   5 0 0
C. Townsend Hook, Esq  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq. ....•  5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq ....'.  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq         5 0 0
Mrs. Watts      5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq  5 0 0
P. G.   5 0 0
M. G. S....I        5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq   5 0 0
J. H. D  5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq  5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq.    5 0 0
Scribo     :      5 0 0
Friend per Mrs. Vtmon   3 3 0
G de Liagre  ...".      3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq  3 3 0
Miss Clark     300
S. O. Hall, Esq    2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq    2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq    2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie       2 2 0
F.   2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear     2 2 0
Miss Whitear  2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq   2 2 0
D. G. Fitzgerald, Esq    2 2 0
Miss Watts         2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D    2 2 0
L. J.     3    2 2 0
G. Damiani    2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.    2 0 0
M. DeVeh       2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq.        2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq    2 0 0
Miss Douglas    2 0 0
J. Hare, Esq., and Friends  2 0 0
Rev. J. Manners  2 0 0
R. B    110
D. H.W  110
A. Glendinning, Esq.    110
W. Glynes, Esq   110
J. T. Peele, Esq  110
Dr. C. L. Robertson '.  110
Mrs. S. Dickson  110
Regnutn   110
Friend, per T. Hajle, Esq  1 1 0
F. A. Binney, Esq      110
W. W    1 1 0
J. Swinburne, Esq    110
J. Gledstanes, Esq      10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory       10 0
Dr. Hayle   10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq     10 0
Mrs. Wiseman  10 0
A. R. Wallace, Esq.  10 0
J. C. Eno, Esq  10 0
Col. H. S. Olcott    10 0
Baronin V. Vay  0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq    0 10 6
C. C. G.;...    0 10 0
C. Reimers     0 10 0
D. S. Vi   0 5 0
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Setond Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1866.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
tbe Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. . More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenherg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marrrat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Ediu.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”]; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London.
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallv torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the. first post on the previous Wedietday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of th#
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Louden, E.O.
