A RECORD OF THE PROQF(Ej3£ OF THE £CIEJ^C.E AND
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
ETHIC3 OF j3PIT\ITUA]LIj3M.
No. 54.—(Vol. III.—No. 15.)
LONDON: JUNE 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
OTontents.
Some Experiences and Conclusions regarding Spiritualism (No. VI.)... 226
Royal Institution.—The Mythology and Temples of India   227
Visions among the Natives of Natal     229
The Mediumship of Mr. Thomas Eaves  231
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—The Liverpool Psychological Society; Test
Seance with Mr. Fegan-Egerton; Liverpool Trance and Healing
Mediums; The "Workers in the Movement in Liverpool; A Sug¬
gested Conference; Spiritualism and Free-Thought; The Me¬
diumship of Mr. Thomas Eaves; Miscellaneous Subjects   232
Sunday Spiritual Meetings in Liverpool.—Spiritualism and the Church;
A Trance Lecture on Religion  234
Mr. Fegan-Egerton’s Mediumship   235
Poetry.—Nearing the Shore        236
Prophetic Visions     v. ... 236
Spirit Photographs   236
A Spiritual Conference in Liverpool   237
Mr. Foster’s Mediumship  237
Answers to Correspondents     239
Paragraphs.—Spirit Forms, 231; Psychological Society of Edinburgh,
235; Spiritualism at Manchester, 238; The Prodigal Son, 238; Un¬
expected Messages, 238.
The Best Book for Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ABE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed; Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Feitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica-
tion. London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
BIRKBECK BANK. Established'1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.^
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
  FRANCIS RAVENS CROFT, Manager.
nnn Ready to be ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANCE permanent land and building
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium), 5 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Note.—More than On6 Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
DR. HUGH McLEOD (duly qualified in Medicine and
Surgery), HEALS BY SPIRIT POWER, and with very great suc¬
cess. He visits patients in London or suburbs, and at his temporary re-
4,’ALMA COTTAGES, CHESNUT ROAD, TOTTENHAM, N.
Fees: London or Suburbs, 21s.; Tottenham, 10s. 6d. The poor, who
can'come to the latter place, free. Cases which present extraordinary fea¬
tures submitted to a thoroughly trained clairvoyante, and without additional
charge.
Dr. McLeod is prepared to make arrangements for the delivery of ad¬
dresses on the Logicand Science of Spiritualism. His lectures are original,
and delivered extempore. Terms (easy) on application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions:—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation oi £3 3s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
THOMAS WILKS, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer. '
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shakes op £1 Each. •
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Feedekick Baypoed, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William GimbeeGoodlifpb, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Chaeles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Cheistophee Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dk. William: Faee, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ Beitish ImpeeiAL ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Secueity, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance;- the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Ojffces.-BRO WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
InsueanOes against Loss oe Damage by Fiee may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Retuens.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums:
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C. x
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. PeaeCe, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being farther descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E,0
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Ooebespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in ike supply of “ The Spiritualist'1'1 in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and ii'regulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered .through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING SPIRITUALISM. .
No. VI.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
I have, in preceding articles, endeavoured to trace
some of the uses to which Spiritualism may he at once
put hy its advocates; and I have named the conditions
on which, in my view, it can he made useful. It would
xejoice me much if circles of Spiritualists could be
extensively and regularly formed, where the predomi-
-:nant thought of each member of them, was the subtle
and sublime communion which they were then courting
•'with spirits, whose surrounding light is as the noonday
sun to the rushlight which illumines our bodily-encased
spirits. As much of that greater light would thus be
added to our smaller, as the physical agent through
which our spirit exhibits itself is able to bear without
subversion; we should get teachings from the highest
spheres transmitted through spirits who are nearer
to earth’s doings because they are sent as missionary
love-spirits to aid and inspire us in our plodding bodily
existence: we should become lovingly familiar with the
fringes of the veil of the pure spirit-life, or even have a
corner of it lifted up for our eager gaze ; but the gaze
must be eager, the desire for light intense, the curiosity
upward, the hope heavenward. The night of dogma is
far spent, and the dawn of facts and holy philosophy is
spreading over and brightening the world of thought
and feeling, and giving strength to individual spirit
. exertion in place of the paralysis induced by churches
and sects. Physical science, beholding solid substance
moved by virtue of certain forces, has deified those
forces as the sole creator and cause of all that passes in
the universe. Men of science, like theologians, are
dogmatic and sectarian; they hold they have discovered
all the forces and all the applications of them that can
possibly exist, just as theologians hold that nothing
more of God can ever be known than is already re¬
vealed in their books and creeds; both alike live in
very partial light, inasmuch as they limit the sources
of it; they will have nothing but what squares with
their forces and their creeds. We Spiritualists should
be thankful that it has been given us to obtain facts
which link our minds with the eternal and the illimit¬
able, which point to us the sources of endless light, and,
it may be, thousands of forces as yet not dreamed about,
and the results of which to those minds must be, if the
investigation be calm and solemn, increasing joy and
contentment, enlarged knowledge, and still higher and
higher hope.
With whatever state of the spirit we may investigate
the facts of Spiritualism, there will always be, to dif¬
ferent minds, a varying appreciation of the worth of
the different modes of communication with the dis¬
embodied. In the experiences which I have recorded
the messages were given by alphabet raps, there was
music, and, on one or two occasions, voices. I confess
that these modes, and that by direct spirit-writing,
command my undoubting belief more than indirect
writing and trance-speaking; not so much from sus¬
picion of mala fides as from knowledge, in the case of
trance-utterance, that the spirit of necessity speaks
through the medium’s brain, which may be more or
less active in the process, and, in the indirect writing,
through the medium’s hand, which, being connected
with a brain in actual wakefulness, may be influenced
in what it writes by what is passing in the nervous
centre, the medium being, in either case, not intent on
deceiving. This objection does not apply to raps, of
which no one present can possibly command the time,
place, or force; to music, which is given when not one
present can play the instrument at all, and sometimes
with no instrument near ; or to direct writing or voices
which are effected when the mouths of all present are
closed and the hands holding each other all around.
It may be queried whether Allen Kardec wrote the
number of volumes which he sent forth as the dicta¬
tions of predominating spirits without a mingling of
Allen Kardec in the teaching. At all events, he seems
to have had all the “ re-incarnating” spirits to himself,
and stood alone to hold their theory. So, when a con¬
trolling spirit denounces vaccination as injurious, it
always happens that the controlled is of the same way
of thinking when not entranced. These and several
other reasons may be advanced for advocating the
greatest accuracy in the conditions which surround a
medium when speaking or writing under control, and
the greatest caution in receiving what is so uttered.
The temptation to get messages rapidly renders speaking
and writing a favourite evolution of spirit power; but
I cannot help thinking that slower methods with fewer
openings for error are preferable. Very probably, as
the investigation proceeds, we shall learn how to stop
up these openings, and then our proximity to real
spiritual teachers will be surer as well as nearer.
Meanwhile, I hold that the first necessary step towards
this consummation is to bring together spirits in the
flesh intent upon the highest aims of Spiritualism, with
the intellects freed from prejudice, and the moral sen¬
sations pure, fraternal, yearning for knowledge more
than for marvels.
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
Before I close, let me offer a few words on the ques¬
tion of the intervention of “scientific” men in the
investigation of Spiritualism, without which, we are
told, the world at large will never accept it. The
contradiction to this, is the fact that several millions of
the world have accepted it, spite of the laughter, con¬
tempt, and scurillity of the majority of scientific men,
who, for the rest, must be hard pressed to put forward
a Dircks for their objector and expositor. To hear
them speak, one would imagine they had reached the
uttermost Thule of causation, when they invented the
word “ force ” to account for all the physical phenomena
of creation. It seems never to occur to them that
“ force p may have a cause, or, at least, may need a de¬
finition ; they sit down contented that in these five
letters (for they are nothing more until the word is
defined in its essence and in its origin) they have the
spring of all they examine; they take for granted that
there can be no other causes at work in the universe,
save that to which they give this name, and they con¬
temptuously refuse to enter on the inquiry whether such
other causes do exist. I maintain that men in whom
this state of mind obtains, render themselves ridiculous
when they assume the airs of a hierophant, dogmatise
as to the limits of inquiry, and excommunicate all who
presume to question whether their Deity, “ force,”
accounts for everything which the human mind is ca¬
pable of observing and feeling. As I before said, the
parallel between the man of science and the dogmatic
theologian is complete, when the former places himself
in the position he does in the matter of Spiritualism
and its evidences ; and truly it is somewhat too hard
upon human nature to have two series of dogmatic
tyrants aiming to stifle her aspirations for more light.
And how do they stand as regards the irrefragable
character of their own facts? What has become of
Newton’s emission theory of light ? Gone ! What of
Hutton’s fire theory of terrestrial changes? Gone!
Until twelve years ago the sun was ninety-six millions
of miles from us, now it is only ninety. What has
become of a host of simple substances % Found to
be compound. At one time the “ convulsion” doctrine
regarding geological changes was held, now the slow
and gradual doctrine is the order of the scientific
world. And yet at each stage of knowledge he who
ventured to question was pointed at with the finger of
scorn by the leading scientists of the day and the re¬
ceived stage. “ Yes,” reply the scientists, “ but when
we inquired into the new facts and theories and found
them well-based, we accepted them.” Precisely what
you should do, gentlemen, with reference to Spiritualism,
and what you will find it your necessity to do, unless
you choose to be left in the cold and in the dark re¬
garding a series of phenomena which find no explana¬
tion in your ultimate cause, force, but which are as well
based as any fact in any laboratory. Bishop Berkeley
says, “So you arrive at truth, though not at science; ”
and be assured that there is plenty of truth to be found
without your science. At one time there was reckoned
to be only seven sciences—grammar, rhetoric, logic,
arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy; referring
to which Pope says—
“ Good sense, which only is the gift of heaven,
And, though no science, worth the seven.”
So we Spiritualists will manage to arrive at some
valuable truth regarding our present and future exist¬
ence without your aid, and with the aid of sound
external senses, and that other interior sense^of which
the poet just-quoted speaks, and which you cannot give
us. You say our external senses are in a state of
hallucination; then must those of some ten millions of
people be in the same state, arid exactly, on the same
point—a phenomenon which the human race never yet
exhibited.
But granting skill and acuteness in the processes of
experimenting on physical nature, there remains an
absence and a presence in order to render the skill trust¬
worthy—the absence of a prejudiced mind and the. pre¬
sence of a candid one. As yet we have seen little or
none at all of these conditions of mind in what men,
having pretensions to scientific distinction, have uttered
concerning the phenomena of Spiritualism recorded to
them ; “ phoo-phoo ” is only another expression for
prejudice, and the demand for previous conditions, ac¬
cording to laws to which they restrict their belief, is
not the spirit of Candour. Thus there is small likeli¬
hood of the body scientific ever investigating the body
spiritual and its agencies in any manner which would
be fair to the inquiry, or advance our knowledge of the
subject. If I might venture a recommendation to the
believers in Spiritualism, it would be to cease praying
the scientific doctors to come amongst them. Surely in
ten millions of persons there are those who would
“ know a hawk from a handsaw ” as well as the most
pretentious scientist,—rthose who can surround a phe¬
nomenon with such precautions as to render it unassail¬
able by trick, and indubitable in its causality ? It
sounds potential to divide by word of mouth, though
not by act of proof, the whole race of Spiritualists into
the rogues and the fools, the impostors and the gulls ;
but what if the retort discourteous were made, and the
gentlemen of science were reminded how they constantly
go into courts of justice, get compensation and declare
point blank against each other—nay, are subpoenaed and
paid beforehand to declare this way or that ? Where
is, then, the positivism of science as opposed to the hum¬
bug of Spiritualism ?—and which of the two witnesses is
the fool, and which the rogue? No; we can do with¬
out the men of science, and I trust the body of
Spiritualists will come to that conclusion. When another
ten millions are added to our numbers, they will be
glad to join the party; it may pay them to do so, for
the phase of contempt will be past; meantime they
stand shivering in fear before Grundy, and worshipping
their new deity—Force.
ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE MYTHOLOGY AND TEMPLES OE INDIA.
Last week the 1873 session at the Royal Institution
came to a close. One of the most interesting lectures
of the session, and connected with psychology and re¬
ligion was delivered by Captain E. D. Lyon, under the
presidency of Mr. William Spottiswoode, LL.D., Treas.
R.S. and R.I., on the subject of “The Mythology and
Temples of India,” as follows :—
India is the brightest appanage of the British crown,
containing as it does about one hundred and forty millions
of inhabitants; and yet how little is known about it.
Most persons have heard of an Indian temple or pagoda,
but such words are not known in India, the word used
being Devila, which means “ the house of God,” and what
English people call.a pagoda is nothing but the door Cr
entrance to the building of God. The difficulty of ob¬
taining information on the subject of the Hindoo religion
in India is very great. The Anglo-Indians are. far too
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1873.
much, occupied to trouble themselves on such matters;
and the only persons of whom inquiries can be made
are the Brahmins and the missionaries. With the
former, experience teaches that the application of silver
to their hand has a wonderful effect on their tongue,
and if you only apply enough coin you may get any
amount of information; but then comes the difficulty of
separating what is true and what is imaginary. As to
the missionaries, it is hardly likely they will take the
trouble to study much a religion which they have come
to try and root out. One of them declares that in India
the natives 'worship three hundred and thirty millions
of gods; but the real truth is, the Hindoos worship
only one supreme Deity, whom they look on as too
sublime, too grand, too awful for their minds to conceive.
They never address any prayer to him ; they have never
erected any temple to his honour, and they would con¬
sider it sacrilege to do so. All their prayers are ad¬
dressed to one of his triune personifications, Brahma,
Yishnu, and Shiva. Brahma personifies creation;
Yishnu, preservation ; and Shiva, destruction. These
three agree in one; for though at first sight it might
appear difficult to reconcile creation and destruction as
agreeing; still when it is remembered that with the
Hindoos destruction is in reality re-creation, the coali¬
tion is easy. In former times the worshippers of the
three divinities also agreed and used the same forms of
worship and the same temples, as is proved by the older
temples containing close together representations of the
three deities; but of late years they hate each other
with as fanatical a hate as is to be found in the Western
world.
Captain Lyon then began the exhibition of his pho¬
tographs, enlarged by the camera, and illuminated by
the electric light; first introducing the god Ganesa, one
of the most noted in India, and the one which every
Hindoo prays to before commencing any undertaking.
Before he begins a journey, before he builds a house, he
prays to Ganesa—“ 0 glorious and immortal Ganesa,
grant me success in what 1 am about to undertake! ”
“ I have already mentioned,” said Captain Lyon, “ the
Indian temple or house of God. I must now explain
that the temple is composed of four parts: the Gopurum,
or gateway, much resembling the Egyptian Pylon ; the
Mundapum, or porch; the Teppa Kolum, or tank; and
the Yimanum, or sanctuary. The three first I will
show you; the last is a low oblong room, perfectly
plain, into which no ray of daylight is ever permitted
to enter. It is here the idol is kept, and no one but a
high-caste Hindoo and a royal prince is allowed to
enter; and if a prince goes in he must go quite alone.
The first temple of which I shall show you a view, is
that of Seringum, nea^ Trichinopoly. It is one of the
largest in India. You see the Gopura which mark the
entrances from one court to another. The base is of
stone, and the pyramid of brick covered with plaster,
out of which all the figures are' made. There are
twenty-three of these Gopura in this temple, and eight
thousand Brahmins live in it; but you must not
suppose all the Brahmins are priests. It is from
among the Brahmins that the priests are chosen; as
among the Jews it was from the tribe of Levi the family
of Aaron was chosen for the priesthood.
A mundapum, or porch, of which literally thousands
are to be found in India, is composed of eight stones,
say eight feet long and about two feet square. Take
four of these and put them upright in the ground, lay the
other four along the top to form a roof, and you have
a mundapum ; and whether of immense size and beauti¬
fully carved, or quite plain, the shape and form are the
same.
In the view before you each group of horses, animals,
and figures are cut out of one block of granite, fifteen
feet high, and it forms the front of one of the mundapa
in the Seringum temple. The Teppa Kolum, or tank,
which you see in this view, is also in the Seringum
temple, and is the third part of a Hindoo temple, as
already mentioned. At a festival in January the god is
put on a boat, and drawn twenty-one times round the
pavilion which you see in the middle, the Nautch girls
dancing and the band playing.
Madura, the Borne of the Hindoos, is the next place
to visit. Here we find the celebrated Puthu Mundapum,
built by Trimul Kayak, the last king of Madura. He
asked the god to come and pay him a visit; and 'the
answer was, he had no house fit to receive him. The
king erected this wonderful building, which cost one
million sterling, and took twenty-two years to com¬
plete. It is 333 feet long, by eighty-one broad. The
roof is supported by 128 pillars, each of which is a
solid block of granite twenty-five feet high, and all
most beautifully sculptured.
You have heard of the Juggernaut car, which is the
next view. The god, besides his row on the tank,
must have his car in which he is drawn about on a
certain day every year. The whole population of the
neighbouring villages assembles ; the god is brought
out, covered with jewels, and being carried to the top of
the car by means of an inside staircase, the enormous
ropes are attached, and being seized by thousands of
men, the ponderous mass begins slowly to move; and
what with the shouting of the men, the singing of the
women, and the dancing of the Nautch girls, the scene
is one never to be forgotten. The excitement becomes
at last so intense that one hardly wonders that the
fanatics become absolutely mad, and that it is with
difficulty the police, appointed by the government for
the purpose, can restrain them from throwing them¬
selves on their backs on the ground, and opening their
legs permit the wheels of the machine to pass over
their bodies, welcoming so horrible a death in the belief
that it will ensure to them beatitude hereafter.
Farther south we shall see the Monolith at Kaloo-
goomulla, which not six white persons have ever seen,
and very few know even of its existence. For some
reason the Brahmins will not tell anyone of its where¬
abouts ; and when questioned deny all knowledge of it.
It is cut out of a solid block of dark granite, and stands
perfectly isolated. No worship of any sort is ever per¬
formed there, and it is not known when or by whom
it was erected, or for what purpose.
At Tinnevelly, yet farther south, are four gigantic
figures, each cut out of a solid block of a dark green
stone, said to be a mixture of trapstone and hornblend,
twenty feet high. The one you see is the Kama Deva,
or Indian Cupid, who was born with a bow and five
arrows; and on asking Brahma, his father, for what
purpose these were given to him, was told that to him
was given the power to inflame mankind with love,
and thus people the world. He thought he would try
his arrows first on Brahma, and the result was he was
soon blest with 149,000 brothers and sisters.
The sacred temple of Bamisseram on the island of
Paumben, is situated at the commencement of what is
called Adam’s bridge, which is said. formerly to have
joined Ceylon to the mainland. The story of.the sane-
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
229
tity of this island and temple is to be read in the
“ Kamayana,’, a Hindoo poem filling a very large
volume ; being a history of the battles which took
place beftveen Rama and Ravana, when the latter, a
monster with ten heads and one hundred arms, carried
off Sita, Rama’s wife. The temple is the most sacred
in all India, not even excepting Benares. It is here
the pilgrim ends his long journey which he began three
thousand miles away; and no one who does not know
what Indian travel is, can realise what the pilgrim
suffers in this tedious march, without mentioning the
austerities to which he condemns himself—such as
prostrating himself, face downwards, in the dust at the
end of every mile. Here is rest at last; and as he
wanders in the waning light through these sacred pre¬
cincts, he forgets all he has undergone in the remem¬
brance that he has gained his goal, and he looks for¬
ward to blessings in this world and immediate beatitude
after death. The wonderful corridors of the temple
itself are justly considered one of the most marvellous
exhibitions of human labour to be found anywhere;
their aggregate length is nearly four thousand feet; and
when we consider that their section is that of a small
Gothic church, and their length eight times that of our
largest cathedral, that all the pillars are of granite
richly carved, and observe the variety of light and
shade, and the wonderful effects of perspective in the
long-drawn aisles, we must admit that they form an
ensemble surpassing anything of its class to be found
elsewhere.
In Avadea Covill we find again the hard stone, as
at Tinnevelly, which no chisel in these modern days
can be made to cut. The temple is small, but wonder¬
fully beautiful. At Tanjore the temple is^one of the
finest and richest in India, but, curious to say, almost
entirely deserted: it is celebrated for the large stone
bull Nundi, which our engineers compute must have
weighed nearly one hundred tons before it was cut, and
must have been brought five hundred miles, as there is
no quarry of a similar stone nearer.
At the Seven Pagodas, near Madras, are the extra¬
ordinary rocks which have been so beautifully carved,
both inside and out; but by whom, when, or for what
purpose, is not known. The whole undertaking seems
to have been begun at once and ceased suddenly. The
bassi-relievi round the sides of the hollowed-out rocks
are as fine, if not finer, than anything to be found in
India. There also is the temple on the sea-shore, sup¬
posed to be all that remains of the submerged city of
Bali, the wildest fiction that ever was invented; but
nevertheless immortalised by Southey in his “ Curse of
Kehama.” Close by are the Five Raths, as they are
called, large boulders cut into beautiful little temples,
said to be the only Buddhist temples in India, the
other remains being all caves as at Karlee, where we
see one of the finest of them; and curiously enough,
the wood-work, both at the entrance and also at the
farther end, date from the time of the original excava¬
tions, probably a few years before our Saviour. The
shape of the interior is very similar to that of the
early Christian churches, the Dagoba being in the
place of the altar. At Tarputy, 140 miles north of
Madras, we find again the same stone as at Avadea
Covill and Tinnevelly, and here even more marvellously
sculptured. The bases of what were splendid Gopura,
but now in ruins, are covered with a profusion of
beautifully-executed figures, flowers, and animals, such
as a Hindoo could alone have attempted. Next comes
the city of Yijianuggur, which formerly covered seven
square miles, and which has now almost entirely dis¬
appeared, leaving only two small temples as records of
its former grandeur. This city defied for two hundred
years the power of the Mahomedans, whose capital,
Beejapoor, is very interesting to visit on account of the
tombs of its kings, which alone in like manner remain
to attest its magnificence. In this city each king built
his own tpmb during his lifetime; a plan which had
the one disadvantage, that if the king died before it
was half finished it remained in the same state for ever.
The verandah round the mausoleum of Ibrahim Shah is
as fine as anything to be found in the East; and, when
the azure colouring was fresh, the contrast between it
and the gilt letters and the outer frame of the grey
granite must have been grand indeed. The whole of
the Koran has been engraved on the walls of this tomb.
Over the windows the stone has been pierced, and the
Arabic letters alone left, which are so well done and
perfect as to be easily legible by anyone even imper¬
fectly acquainted with the language. Whether this
marvellous exhibition of skill and patient industry, or
the window of the mosque at Ahmedabad, or the screen
round the Taj at Agra, bears off the palm, is a question
very hard to answer.
In conclusion. Captain Lyon devoted a few words to
the .Tain religion. There can be little doubt that the
founder of this religion, Mahavira, was the preceptor of
Buddha, and that the cause of their separation was that
Mahavira tried to persuade his disciples that they should
go about in a state of nudity. Buddha saw at once
that such a precept could not practically become popular,
and the result was their quarrel, and Buddha became
the founder of the religion which, even at this day,
numbers more disciples than all the religions of the
West, while the Jains for a time seemed almost to have
disappeared, to reappear in small numbers again, when
the Buddhists were driven by the Brahminical faith out
of India. There are three or four small colonies of
them now scattered about, and at Bombay they are very
rich, and have built on a hill they have purchased in
Goozerat some very beautiful temples. They are a
quiet and very hard-working race of men, and their
religion is one of the very best in India; their Bible,
the Kalpa Sutra, being as practically good as the
Koran.
VISIONS AMONG THE NATIVES OF NATAL.*
BT UMPENGULA MBANDA, AND TEANSLATED BY THE EEV.
CANON CALLOWAY, M.D.
Ecstasy is a state in which a man becomes slightly
insensible. He is awake, but still sees things which
he would not see if he were not in a state of ecstasy.
Undayeni was a clever man, who used to say he was
able to see things afar off from him. He would some¬
times see what was going on on the other side of a hill,
and tell the people, saying, 'u There is a man coming
by that path,” whether it was a friend, or a stranger.
Sometimes in our country they hunted buffalo. If
he had slept at night, he would awake in the morning
and tell us, saying, “ Sirs, if we go to hunt buffaloes to¬
day we shall be lucky. I saw some buffaloes during
the night; we were hunting them; they were just like
cattle.” That was all such dreams made known to us.
When we found the buffaloes they were just like cattle,
* Quoted from Amatongo, or Ancestor Worship among the Amazulu. Natal,
John A. Blair; London, Trubner and Co,
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1873.
as lie had told us; we killed them, and did not get so
much as a scratch.
On another occasion, if there was a hunt, the men
having already agreed, saying, “ Sirs, on such a day it
is well for us to go and hunt buffaloes by such a river,”
they would agree, and when the morning arrived set
out on their journey. As they were setting out he
would say to them, “ Sirs, but I have seen in my sleep,
although we are going to hunt, do you hunt like men,
for I say the buffaloes are full of rage.” And truly it
was so when they came up with them ; although they
did not kill anyone, they tossed the men or dogs con¬
tinually. But they went to the hunt made cautious by
his dream; and escaped again and again by dodging.
We noticed that although he was not an inyanga, yet
his dreams were good. He was, besides, a brave man
and courageous; if there were [a buffalo in an open
spot, where was no tree upon which a man could climb,
he would say to the people, “ Do you climb into the
trees. I will go and draw him towards you, that we
may kill him.” But the people could not see that, hut
said, U How will he draw the buffalo towards us, for he
cannot fly, and is not able to run fast ? What will he
do ? How will he escape ?” But he went to the
buffalo, and began the attack by stabbing it, and then
ran away to where the people were, and climbed into a
tree; and if there were any men who had assagais,
hey killed it.
The people used to say of him, that he was a diviner,
though he did not divine; for he said what was true;
and diviners sometimes say what is not true. He was
also an eloquent man, for what he said came to pass.
It was said, the Amatongo of his own people and the
Amatongo of his maternal uncle disagreed. Those of
the maternal uncle wished to make him a diviner;
those of his own people did not wish it. After that he
was unable to divine like a diviner, but said what was
true without divination. But his habits were those of
a diviner, though he was not one; for he used to yawn
and sneeze continually; and this is done by diviners;
although he did not divine, he was midway between
divining and not divining.
There is another thing which I remember of
Undayeni. We were living on the Umgeni; there
was in the neighbourhood a rock, in which was a
hollow, where water stood; and that water was the
looking-glass in which all we younger ones used to look
at ourselves. One day on awaking from sleep he asked
us, saying, “ Is there a place in the rock which you
gaze in as a looking-glass ?” We replied, “ What harm
is there in that ?” He replied, “ No. I merely ask
because I have seen what I have seen during the
night.” Then we told him that there was such a place.
He replied, “ I tell you never to go to that place again.,
There is some one who for some time has seen that you
are accustomed to look at yourselves there. And he
has put bad medicine into the hollow. Leave the
place.” And because he was a man whom we knew,
we saw that he spoke the truth, and did not refuse to
obey, but left the place. This he did not see in an
ecstatic state, but during sleep.
And even in disputes, if there was anyone who was
in fault, and TJndayeni said to him, “ So-and-so, you
will lose the case,”—if the man knew TTndayeni he
would no longer want to go into court, but was now
ready to act rightly to the other without going into court.
Such then was the character of IJndayeni. This is
what I remember of his acts.
And as regards the ecstasy into which he fell, he
was a man who did not like to sit in the midst of many
people, but liked to sit alone, for he was a man who,
we said, spoke the truth. I do not mean that he never
sat amidst other people, but he did not usually do so.
In like manner among black men the real meaning
of dreams is not known. For some dreams have every
appearance of reality, but they are not true; others
point out something which is about to happen. For
among black men it is supposed that if a man dream of
a great assembly, where they are dancing, if there is
anyone ill, we have no confidence that he will get well;
but immediately the man who dreamt of the dance is
much alarmed, and if he is not a man of the same vil¬
lage as that where the man is ill, he continually listens,
expecting to hear the funeral wail. And although the
wail is not heard on the same day, he is still fearful and
without confidence.
But a dream which produces confidence among black
men, when anyone is ill, is one in which they dream
that someone is dead and about to be buried, and that
they see the earth poured into the grave, and hear the
funeral lamentation for him, and see the destruction of
all his things during the night. They say of such a
dream, “ Because we have dreamt of his death he will
not die.”
We do not understand how this happens. For as
regards living and dying, it would appear proper that
he who is about to die should die, if when he is ill
people dream he is dead; and he who is about to live
should live, if people dream that he is well. But in
truth I have seen both. I have dreamt of a wedding
dance, and the man died ; again, I have dreamt of the
death of a sick man, but he got well. For example,
when some years ago our Teacher was ill, I dreamt that
he was dead, and that he had died at Pietermaritzburg.
But he was not buried in a grave, but was placed in the
middle of a house which was white inside; and it was
full of dead men, and he was placed on the top of the
dead men ; his head was directed towards the east, and
his hair covered his eyes. This I saw in my sleep.
When I awoke, I waited, saying, “ Let me look out for
the letter which will come shortly; it will come and
say, f 0, it is so; he is dead.’ ” I did not wait for that,
but saw it was already really true, and at once wept
during the rest of the night; I was afraid for a letter
to come, thinking it would tell us of his death. I longed
that it might be a long time before it arrived. My eyes
remained full of tears because of the dream. But when
the letter came it was not so. But I heard it said,
“ Our Teacher has sent for the waggon to go to Pieter¬
maritzburg, to fetch him.” So I said, «0, truly, to
dream of death does not show that death will take
place.”
I have not yet come to a certain conclusion that this
is true; for some dream of death, and death occurs ;
and sometimes of health, and the person lives. And I
do not say that a dream turns out to be true; some¬
times I dream of something, and in fact the thing
happens as I have dreamed. But I speak especially of
the death or life> of one who is ill, that the event turns
out different from what it ought to, and goes by con¬
traries.
People say summer dreams are true; but they do
not say they are always true; but they say that summer
dreams do not usually miss the mark. But they say
the winter is bad, and produces confused imaginations,
that is, very many unintelligible dreams. And there-
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
fore it is said that winter causes bad dreams, and if a
man bas dreamed and tells another, be will at once
answer him, saying, “ 0, So-and-so, that is nothing
but the confused imaginations caused by the winter.”
He says thus because there is no sense in the dream.
In like manner it is said there is not much that is false
in the dreams of summer. But when the winter comes
the people begin to be afraid that the winter will bring
much rubbish—that is, false dreams.
A dream which is said to be sent by the Itongo is one
which comes with a message from the dead, inquiring
why such and such a thing is not done. For example,
among black men, if one has an abundant harvest some¬
times the head of the village dreams that it is said to
him, “ How is it, when you have been given so much
food, that you do not give thanks ?” And as soon as
he wakes he has no doubt as to what food the dream
means. But he perceives at once that the dream speaks
to the point. And he immediately commands his people
to make beer, for he is about to sacrifice. So he praises
the Amatongo for the food which they have given him.
And if he has gained many cattle he does the same.
It happened once when the Amazulu had gone out'
to battle, the word was passed among the people telling
them that the cattle were standing without guard at
Idhlokwe. And all the people started up, thinking
they should get cattle; and even old men went out,
leaning on their staves; and at length our father was
carried away by the infection. And as the news came
in the afternoon, he said to our mothers, “ Make me
some bread, that I may eat on the journey.” But whilst
he was asleep a voice came to him, saying, “ Do not go
where the others are going; not one will come hack
again.” So in the morning, as it was a shame to a man
to say he was not going, he said, “ 0, for my part,
neighbours, when I lay down I had got ready to go;
hut now my leg prevents me; I have become lame.”
In fact he pretended to he lame.
They set out thinking they should gain very many
cattle; and, forsooth, death made a very great gain of
them. 0, one only came back, whose name was TJsi-
chile; he came with an assagai wound by his ear. He
said, “ You see me only.” That was a confirmation to
my father that he had been truly warned by the dream.
And after that he told the dream, saying, “ I, too, was
going, but I saw what has happened in a dream.”
Again, if, when making an incursion into another
country, one has dreamt that he stabbed a man first and
killed him, he murmurs, saying, “ Oh, how is it that I
have dreamt that I killed a man ? No. The dream
goes by contraries. It is I who shall be killed.” So he
goes cautiously—does not go in front, hut behind the
others ; but when the two armies have joined battle,
then he enters into the engagement, when the enemy
is confused, and stabs someone. He does not forget the
dream, hut hears it constantly in mind.
Spirit Forms. — Everybody kno'frs the annoyances
mediums have been subjected to, in consequence of the spirits
being obliged to take on somewhat. the features of the
medium in the first stages of materialising themselves. Now,
the spirits occasionally show themselves and the mediums at
the same time. A few days ago, John King showed himself
and his medium at the same time, to a circle of five or six
witnesses, among whom was Mr. Fitzgerald, the electrician,
at the house of Mrs. Fitzgerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-
park, W. Mr. Williams was seen at full length lying on the
sofa, while John King was floating over him; both forms
were illuminated by a spirt-light held in the hand of the
latter. A description of thfs light was given in the last
number of the Spiritualist.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MR. THOMAS EAYES.
In another column will he found a report of a short
speech made by Mr. E. Banks, about the mediumship
of Mr. Thomas Eaves. Last Tuesday we had a seance
in Liverpool with Mr. Eaves, but nothing much took
place, his nerves having recently been very much
shaken by some newspaper, abuse which had been
showered upon his head, and this nervousness tem¬
porarily reacted upon the manifestations, for, like all
mediums, he is extremely sensitive. The chief feature
of his mediumship is direct spirit-writing, which some¬
times comes in letters of gold. He obtains trance commu¬
nications of greatly varying degrees of quality, and has
considerable power as a physical medium. From what
information we could gather, he seems to he one of
those very sensitive mediums who should he taken in
hand by thorough Spiritualists who understand “ con¬
ditions,” and he should never come into contact with
adverse influences. If his physical mediumship were
cultivated professionally, in time he would probably get
the ordinary physical manifestations with regularity
and certainty, to the loss of the higher forms of
mediumship, and somewhat to the degradation of his
present incipient powers. If, however, he sat pri¬
vately with Spiritualists only, so that his present
extreme sensitiveness may he preserved, and if those
physical manifestations only were encouraged which
are accompanied by high intelligence, he would pro¬
bably become one of the most remarkable mediums in
this country. He first sat for manifestations about
two years ago, at the house of Mr. Foster, chemist,
50, Friargate, Preston, and obtained table tiltings and
raps. A short time ago, the following poem, we are
informed, was given through his mediumship by direct
spirit-writing;—
Hear ye not bow, from all high points of time—
From peak to peak adown the mighty chain
That links the ages—echoing sublime,
A voice Almighty, leaps one grand refrain,
Wakening the generations with a shout
And trumpet-call of thunder, “ Come ye out 1” '
Out of old forms and dead idolatries,
From fading myths and superstitious dreams;
From Pharisaic rituals and lies,
And all the bondage of the life that seems.
Out on the pilgrim-path by heroes trod,
Over earth’s wastes to reach forth after God.
The Lord hath bowed his heaven, and come down,
Now in this latter century of time,
Once more His tent is pitched on Sinai’s crown,
Once more in clouds must Faith to meet him climb ;
Once more his thunder crashes on our doubt,,
And fear, and sin : “ My people, come ye out
“ From false ambitions and base luxuries,
From puny aims and indolent self-ends,
From cant of faith and shams of liberties,
And most of ill that Truth’s pure day beam bends;
Out from all darkness of the Egypt land
Into my sun-blaze on the desert sand,
‘ ‘ Leave ye the flesh-pots; turn from filthy greed
Of gain that doth the thirsting spirit mock :
And heaven shall drop sweet manna for your need,
And rain clear rivers from the unhewn rock.”
v Show us our Aaron, with his rod in flower :
Our Miriam, with her timbrel-soul in tune ;
• And call some Joshua, in the spirit’s power,
To poise our sun of strength at point of noon.
God of our fathers ! over sand and sea,
Still keep our struggling footsteps close to Thee!
R. Farmer, D.D.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIYERPOOL.
A few days ago a representative of The Spiritualist news¬
paper visited Liverpool to colle'ct information about the pro¬
gress of Spiritualism in that town, and to learn a little about
the powers of the local mediums. Some of the most active
workers in the movement were therefore kind enough to call
a little meeting at the Caledonian Hotel, Stafford-street, last
Monday evening, to furnish a portion of the desired infor¬
mation.
Mr. John Lamont was voted into the chair. There were
also present Mr. W. Meredith, Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mrs. A
Lamont, Mr. D. Chapman, Miss Cherry Shepherd, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. William Brogden, Mr. D. B.
Ramsay. Mr. George Shaw, Mrs. Shaw, Mr. A. Fegan-Eger-
ton, Mr. E. Banks, Mr. R. Chatham, Mr. T. Hunt, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison.
THE LIVEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The Chairman said :—Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a
formal meeting, but as a few earnest workers in the cause of
Spiritualism in Liverpool, we have met in a free and easy
way, to review for the information of our friend here, the
work we have been doing for some time past. A wide cur¬
rency ought to be given to all work done relating to Spiritual¬
ism, and as we have with us this evening a gentleman repre¬
senting one of the most important journals connected with
the movement, any statements now made upon the progress
of Spiritualism in Liverpool, will be of some use. It is a
calamity that any operations in Spiritualism, either in the
shape of successful efforts on the part of the Psychological
Society, or remarkable seances, should be forgotten, and some¬
thing ought to be done to secure a permanent record of the
proceedings of all the local societies in this country. Last
Christmas the Liverpool Psychological Society had only 40
members, but now it has 140. Considerable stimulus has
been given to Spiritualism in Liverpool by the Sunday meet¬
ings, and it would be I think for the good of the movement,
if similar meetings were held in other towns. Twelve months
ago we began our work in Wapping, Liverpool, and we
engaged a dining-hall there. Our first public Sunday meet¬
ing was addressed by a trance medium, Miss Barlow, of
Manchester, and it was very successful, the effect produced
on the minds of the listeners being of the most favourable
character. The inspirational address was clearly far above
the capacity of the medium in her normal state, and of such
an elevated character as to make a deep impression upon both
old and young; when she finished there was scarcely a dry
eye in the place. That meeting, I believe, was the key-note
of the present success of the movement in Liverpool. Since
then many mediums have visited us, including Mr. Johnson,
Mr. Jackson, Mrs. Butterfield, Mr. Wood, Mr. Kittson, Mrs.
Scattergood, and Mr. Morse. Mr. Morse, I believe, has de¬
livered fifty-eight trance addresses in Liverpool during the
last nine months.
TEST SEANCE WITH ME. EEGAN-EGEETON.
So far as physical manifestations are concerned, we seem
to have fallen far behind our friends in London, but we have
in Liverpool one of the best physical mediums in the country,
Mr. Fegan-Egerton, and several of us have taken consider¬
able pains in testing his powers. Two weeks ago he was at
my own house ; he was not invited professionally. Nine
guests were present. During the evening I asked Mr.
Egerton if he would have any objection to form a circle; he
expressed his willingness, and his desire that it should be made
a strict test sitting. I locked the door and put the key in my
pocket, then respectfully asked Mr. Egerton if he had any
objection to be searched ? He replied, “ No,” and I felt his
clothes down all over, and examined the contents of his
pockets. We sat in the light. We began as usual by singing;
the table then rose clear of the floor, moving up and down in
time to the music, without touching the floor. Mrs. Lamont,
a trance medium, was then influenced, and her spirits re¬
arranged the positions of the sitters in the circle. We all sat
away two feet from the table with our hands crossed. A
banjo, guitar, and iron ring were on the table. The guitar
was then played in the light, while we were looking at it, but
nothing could be seen touching it. Messages also were given
by raps upon the table. Afterwards we had a sitting in the
dark, and the results were equally satisfactory. The hands of
the medium were held by the sitters next to him. The chair
was drawn from under him, raised in the air, and floated
round above the head# of the members of the circle ; finally,
it was gently placed upon the floor at the further end of the
room. The chair was afterwards brought back again at Mr.
Egerton’s request, as he did not want to stand during the
whole seance. We were all touched by spirit hands. My
wife was not well enough to sit in the circle, but was touched
by the hands while sitting in a position where none of the
members of the circle could have reached her. We had the
spirit voice, the instruments were played, and the banjo was
balanced in the dark with considerable nicety on the top of
my bald head (laughter), and it was played while there ; the
hands of Mr. Egerton were held, but had they been free this
would have been a difficult feat to perform. A gardener’s
knife of mine, which to my knowledge was stowed away in a
drawer in an adjoining room when the seance began, was
placed gently between two of my fingers, while the hands of
all the members of the circle were joined, and I am ready to
make an affidavit or affirmation, that that knife was brought
into the room. It is not the first or second time that I have
known matter to pass through matter. We have have other
physical mediums, of whom little is known. Mr. Banks for
instance, if he would give his time to it, and were a little less
bashful.
LIVEEPOOL TBANCE AND HEALING MEDIUMS.
We have at the present time in Liverpool about two dozen
ladies and gentlemen developing as mediums in private circles,
and who knew nothing of Spiritualism twelve months ago.
In many circles there are signs not only of mediumship, but
of advanced mediumship. After one of Mrs. Butterfield’s
lectures, a lady rose in the midst of the audience, and to the
surprise of everybody, gave a very beautiful trance address.
Several in the town have healing mediumships, including Mrs.
Davis, in the Park, and our friend Mr. Meredith, here.
Several have derived benefit from the healing mediumship of
Mrs. Archibald Lamont, and as she is related to me, perhaps
I am rather out of order in stating my own case, but
I have really been made a new man since those healing
spirits of hers began to pay attention to my
ailments. She is controlled suddenly without warning,
and the spirits make her speak gibberish, which yet seems to
be a language, although it has not been identified by any
listeners who have heard it. There appear to be consecutive
sentences. The spirits, however, act intelligently while in
possession of the medium, and they give her temporarily a
muscular strength and power quite foreign to herself, for she
can then turn strong men about as easily as if they were
children. Another of our mediums is Miss Cherry Shepherd,
aged fifteen, brought up in the bosom of a family the very last
who might be expected to have anything to do with
Spiritualism. The revelations through that child, if I may
call her so, made converts of all her family and many others,
including her grandfather, who himself delivers very excellent
addresses under influence, though he is not very willing to
admit it. He utters expressions which are foreign to his own
mind and thought. Were it not for the youth of Miss Shep¬
herd I think we might have excellent public addresses from
her, but it is not well perhaps to press a young lady like her
into inspirational public speaking.
THE WOBKEES IN THE MOVEMENT IN LIVEEPOOL.
Amongst the most active workers in connection with
our society is Mr. John Chapman, who is a host in
himself, and gives much time .and labour in the per¬
formance of his duties. Another friend, whom I may
describe as “ hewer of wood and drawer of water” to the
society, is Mr. Meredith. He attends to all the work connected
with the public meetings at the Assembly Rooms in Islington,
and looks after the sale of spiritual literature at the public
gatherings. We have many young men in Liverpool growing
into the interests of Spiritualism. They are, as a rule, rather
sceptical, but such men make the best Spiritualists when once
convinced, because they will not accept testimony blindly, and
I think that they are quite right; when once convinced, they
are not easily turned aside. Young ladies support us too. I
believe that our Liverpool Society has, so far as practical work
goes, taken the lead of those in all other towns but London.
A SUGGESTED CONEEEENCE.
We have resolved to ask that the annual conference of
Spiritualists shall be held in Liverpool this year, and I trust
that the gathering will be a success. It appears to the Com¬
mittee appointed to attend to the matter, that their efforts
will be much strengthened, if the newspapers connected
with Spiritualism will support them in their efforts.
Mr. Meredith said : The receipts of the bookstall connected
with the sale of Spiritual literature at the public meetings, are
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
about £5 per month. With regard to the suggestion that a
national conference of Spiritualists shall be held in Liverpool.
I think the object might be furthered if the various secretaries
to different Spiritual societies throughout the kingdom, would
correspond with the secretary to the committee appointed by
the Liverpool Psychological Society to carry out the conference.
The secretary is Mr. D. B. Ramsay, 16, South Castle Street,
Liverpool. A list should be opened for subscriptions to carry
out the great work. I have been wandering up and down the
earth for many a year trying to find something of spiritual
truth, but could never get anything satisfactory till I found
Spiritualism.
Mr. John Chapman said : My name has been mentioned as
an earnest worker, but I am rewarded as I go along; I see a
great deal of obedience to my will ; I have been represented
as a controller and ruler in some respects, and it has been a
great pleasure to me to see my desires carried out. I have
seen freedom and good-will among Liverpool Spiritualists,
there has been the greatest harmony in our Psychological
Society, we have worked in unity and love ohe with another,
and that perhaps is the great secret of our success. I think
that Spiritualism is bringing to humanity something that
humanity never dreamed of, and that it will considerably
astonish the world in time. I am willing to work on in this
good cause, and the work makes me very happy.
Mr. Meredith : Yes, he looks happy. He has grown fat
since he became a Spiritualist. (Laughter.)
The Chairman : I trust that the Liverpool Society will pay
special attention to the scientific aspects of Spiritualism ; we
wish to have members in the society who from their scientific
and literary abilities may be able to take part in the study of
this very important phase of the subject. The facts of Spirit¬
ualism should be consolidated. As yet the attempts of scien¬
tific men to explain the phenomena have been failures, and
have not covered a tithe of the facts which have fallen under
my own observation.
spiritualism: and free-thought.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd said :—I have not had very much ex¬
perience in Spiritualism, and only began to investigate it in
earnest eight or nine months ago. But before that I was very
much worried about it by some particular friends of mine
who were giving attention to the subject, and I was not very
charitable to them, although now I give them credit for all
sincerity. I believe they had my welfare at heart. I have long
doubted the teachings of theology. For the last thirty-five
years I was a disbeliever in the Christian God; hence I early
left the narrow theological channel for that of free-thought,
or, as the religious world would say, for infidelity. In in¬
vestigating Spiritualism I had nothing to lose, but every¬
thing to gain; I had no rigid principles to give up,
consequently made no sacrifice in the matter. Mr.
Banks, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Archibald Lamont, and
Mrs. Lamont, aided me much in my inquiries but I was
very troublesome with my doubts, and I like people of a
similarly investigating turn of mind. Evidence has been
given proving beyond all doubt to me, that man never dies,
but only casts ofi the mortal coil, and then his mind with all
its experiences is set free, and takes with it its identity to the
other world. I have had evidence of this by my own fire¬
side. Being satisfied that it is true, what is my duty ? To
advocate it with the little ability I possess, and to further
Spiritualism for the good of humanity. I recommend in the
advocacy of Spiritualism kindness and charity towards our
opponents, and the courting of every kind of opposition from
every grade of opinion. I do not exclude from Spiritualism
theological things by any means, although they clog its wheels ;
we cannot at once get rid of ideas put into our minds by the
voice of authority almost from our birth, so as to make it very
difficult to shake them off, however absurd they may be. Let
us be charitable to each other, and live out Spiritualism.
Men of free thought should set an example to those who have
not had the advantage of thinking for themselves, but are
governed by others* Let us have moral courage, and never
shrink from stating ourselves to be Spiritualists ; the more we
make it known the better. Let us make Spiritualism
fashionable and popular, and then people who like to sail
with the stream will have no objection to investigate. Forty
years ago it was dangerous to be a free-thinker or a social
reformer, and Robert Owen was frequently in danger of his
life from the mob, but Lord Brougham and other great
men began the public discussion of social reforms,
after which such objects became popular. Spiritualism is
becoming popular in Liverpool, anti that there is an under¬
current in favour of it, is shown by the muster-roll of our
society. I think that the proposed conference should be held
in a small town, where it can make its influence felt. In
Liverpool the press is dead against Spiritualism ; once the
local newspapers ridiculed it as much as they could, and'now
they ignore it. We are indebted to the free press of this
country for our liberties, and we should give solid assistance
to those organs which try to help us all they can. The
spiritual periodicals ought to be bought, not through our own
agencies, but through all the newsvendors in Liverpool. I
told my newsagent that if he would not supply my spiritual
periodicals, h6 should not supply me with any others. If all
Spiritualists did the same with their newsagents, it would do
much good by making the literature of Spiritualism widely
known to the trade. While I was in business, I did more
than any other man in Liverpool to circulate the literature
of free-thought, so I wish the hint just thrown out to be
taken. Let us support the literary part of the movement, if
it powerfully helps us.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MR. THOMAS EAVES.
Mr. E. Banks said:—Mr. Egerton was a trance medium till
he sat for physical manifestations two years ago in my house.
Some friends from Yorkshire were present. We sat in the dark.
The room shook violently, lights floated about, then all got so
frightened that we stopped the seance. There is another good
physical medium in Liverpool, Mr. Thomas Eaves, who obtains
direct spirit writing. Beautiful poems are written on paper in
from fifteen to twenty seconds, without contact with mortal
hands. This is done in the dark, but the sheets of paper are
examined beforehand, and corners torn off, and fitted on
again at the close of the seance to show that the papers have
not been changed. The medium is totally uneducated, yet
sometimes sentences in Greek and Latin are given by the
spirits, in various kinds of hand writing. Once I put him to a
test without his knowing it; I got hold of the sheet of paper
and tore it in a particular way. We obtained the direct spirit
voice for the first time through his mediumship that night.
When a light was struck we found the following words upon
the paper in letters of gold, “ Good night! No more to-night.
More another time.” There was a coloured border all round
the writing. Thejhandwriting strangely enough was an exact
fac simile of my own, and when Mr. Eaves saw it, he thought
it was high time to test me. (Laughter.) It was beautifully
done. I lent it to Mr. Wilson, but he never returned it to me.
The paper has my tear upon it.
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd—I omitted to say that I have derived
very great benefit from Mrs. Lamont’s healing mediumship.
Some of the best medical men in the country had previously
tried to relieve me without success. Mrs. Groves also brought a
little child to her, and it is receiving much benefit from her
treatment.
Mr. Meredith, in a short speech, proposed a vote of thanks
to Mr. Harrison for his visit to the Psychological Society of
Liverpool.
Mr. Fegan-Egerton seconded the motion, which was also
supported by Mr. Chapman, and passed unanimously.
Mr. Harrison in returning thanks, said that he should always
remember the great kindness with which he had been received.
In commenting on some of the subjects which had been
mooted during the evening, he said that the great muscular
power exhibited by Mrs. Lamont while entranced, did not
necessarily come from some power outside herself.
Muscles, in their normal state, only put forth a
fraction of the strength which they are capable of exerting,
so that possibly an abnormal stimulus, given, perhaps, by
spirit agency, might make them exert nearly their full amount
of power. The chief newspapers in London were in advance
of the chief newspapers in Liverpool ; most of the former
had one or more Spiritualists on the literary staff, and several
of the London newspapers were giving quiet help to Spiri¬
tualism. With reference to the proposition of the Liverpool
Psychological Society to inaugurate a national conference,
there were more Spiritualists in London than anywhere else,
so he thought their strong support should be obtained before
the conference could be strictly said to be a national one. But
their difficulty would be to know who to communicate with
on the subject, the London Spiritualists having as yet mo re¬
cognised representative. He had every reason to believe that
a very efficient organisation would be established in London
about the close of next autumn. In the mean time there
were two or three little societies, the chief of which was the
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1873.
Dalston Association ; it was but a local society, but was very
well managed, and enjoyed the confidence of most of the best
and oldest workers in the movement, as proved by the sup¬
port they had given to it in various ways, though non-resident
in the district. Perhaps the best thing which the Liver¬
pool Society' could do under the circumstances, would
be to communicate with the Dalston Association, and
with a few of the chief supporters of Spiritualism in
London, who were very well known, such for instance
as Messrs. C. F. Yarley, A. E. Wallace, J. C. Luxmoore,
B. Coleman, Enmore Jones, S. C. Hall, and others, who for
years had fought many hard battles for the good of Spiritual¬
ism. If the proposed meeting should represent Spiritualists
so as to be fairly described by the title of “national,” literature,
science and art would be well represented at the conference.
A vote of thanks to the chairman was then proposed by Mr.
Harrison, seconded by Mr. Shepherd, and carried unani¬
mously, after which the proceedings closed.
Miss Shepherd and Mrs. Lament were entranced in the
course of the evening, but .we hope to give the particulars,
with a little about their mediumship, another time.
SUNDAY SPIRITUAL MEETINGS IN LIVERPOOL.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHURCH.
Last Sunday two services in connection with Spiritualism
were held at the Assembly Booms, Islington, Liverpool, the
first beginning at three o’clock and the second at seven. Mr.
John Lament presided at the afternoon meeting.
Mr. Lament began by reading a chapter from the New
Testament, and in commenting upon it he remarked that
Spiritualism proved man to be a progressive being, and that
he was not annihilated at the death of his earthly body. The
advice given by Paul was grounded on his knowledge of the im¬
mortality of man, and to secure the permanence of the evidence,
Paul recommended compliance with the conditions which
would perpetuate the knowledge of the method of proving
beyond doubt that those who pass beyond the bourne are able
to return. Paul was one of the outcasts who believed in
practising communion with spirits, else what was the meaning
of his advice to make use of the gifts of prophecy, exhortation,
healing, spiritual sight, and the other psychological powers
possessed by mankind at the present day, as well as through¬
out all past ages ? In past times, after the gifts came into the
possession of a rapacious priesthood, the priests suppressed
them, and prevented men from seeing and understanding for
themselves; at this day, too, the Church steps in and with the
cry of “ Bogy!” attempts to stem the tide of free inquiry.
In short, the Church tries to put an end to the spiritual gifts
which gave her birth, and by the records of which she has an
existence.
A TRANCE LECTURE ON RELIGION.
Mr. J. J. Morse, inspirational speaker, passed into the trance
state during the singing of the hymn, then he rose, and under
the mesmeric control of spirits, addressed the meeting as
follows:—
0 thou God of all the Ages, Mighty Master of all Time and
Being, whose wisdom is manifested in the towering mountain,
in the flowing rivulet, in the lordly tree, in the sunshine and
in the dark and gloomy storm-cloud; yet again draw we
nearer to Thee, pouring out our fondest hopes, our inmost
desires. How unmindful we often seem of the kindness Thou
hast showered around us. May Thy blessing fall upon the
heads of these Thy people, and this Thy speaker; may we
learn more of Thee and of Thy purposes, of all that is fair
and beautiful. May the curtain, the thin veil which separates
us from the immortal land, he lifted for a time, that more of
the light from Thee may stream upon Thy children. May
Thy ministering angels, full of love and happiness draw near,
and pour Thy love into the hearts of Thy people, labouring in
the walks of life. Lift us upwards and onwards, nearer to
Thee, our Father and our Friend.
The duty of Spiritualists is a strange one; at least this
remark would appear to be warranted by the conception
which many Spiritualists have of their duty. As there is
infinity of diversity of opinion among men, all truths must
be viewed from different points, so that it is necessary, and
natural, and legitimate that various conceptions of duty
should arise. Still, there are certain fundamental truths, the
understanding of which is necessary. New truths are first
seen at a distance, misty it may be, yet beautiful and com¬
plete, like a city upon a distant hill-side ; but as we approach,
multiplicity aud diversity stand before us, demanding much
patient and observing effort; the truth no longer lies before
us as a concrete whole; details begin to perplex us, doubts and
difficulties arise. At this point some stand aloof, but workers
examine and analyse the various aspects of the details ; those
men who deride this philosophical searching after truth, are
inimical to the human race; they fly straight in the face of
the Author of all truth, by supposing that He could ever send
forth into the world that which may henceforth be hurtful
thereto.
The duty of Spiritualists is manifold, but there are certain
fundamental facts on which to stand, whilst upon other points
Spiritualists may honestly agree to differ. One duty is to
search, to analyse, to discover. Too much attention should
not be paid to the phenomenal and wonderful in modern
manifestations, forgetting that experiences of the greatest
value to the human race have accumulated in past ages, and
have been handed down to the present time. If the dust and
dirt be swept away from these spiritual facts of the olden
time, real gems will be found beneath, which may be placed
side by side with those of modern Spiritualism, to aid in the
formation of a great and good systematic philosophy. We
should survey the past by the light of the present, and reason
and investigate. The lamp of Spiritualism should be carried
into the dark vaults of the past, and the mighty dead be asked
what they can tell us of religion and of the destiny of man.
The departed of all ages will reply, “ 0 seeker after truth, the
teachings of religion, stowed away in the crypts of the dead,
are bright and beautiful, and useful to humanity.”
Spiritualists all agree that the immortality of man can be
experimentally demonstrated, and that it is a duty to make
this known throughout the earth. Apart from the pheno¬
menal proofs, the very existence of religion implies the exist¬
ence of spirituality in man. Religion has been universal from
the earliest dawn of man’s intelligence, though not necessarily
so far back as the period when it is difficult to say whether
man had yet emerged from the brute part of creation. But
the earliest records made by man contain particulars about his
religion, no matter by what people these records were made;
although these religions vary, there are certain fundamental
points in which they all agree. The universality of these
religious ideas points to the existence of a spiritual nature in
man, and man is in essence a spiritual devotional being.
You may here ask “ What religion do you mean ? Mahom-
medan, Christian, Buddhist, or Jewish ? ” We have spoken
only of religion in its expression everywhere, not noticing the
diversities of expression, but now we select one of these for
special illustration, without attacking the many great and
noble men connected with it. Principles we war for, but do
not war for or against men.
There is one kind of religion founded in man’s spiritual
nature, and another created by the intellects of men, built up
and sustained not for the discovery of truth, but for the main¬
tenance of a priesthood, and to establish a tyranny over man¬
kind in every age. There is thus a great distinction between
true religion, and man-invented false religion, though the true
and the false may be sometimes so blended that it is
difficult to draw a line botween them. The physician in cut¬
ting out a sore, must sometimes run the risk of cutting away a
little good flesh with it, so if in our remarks we lear up a few
tender places, it is well to remember that present loss may be
future gain.
False religion consists of miracle, mystery, and superstition ;
take away any one of these three elements, and the whole
structure falls to the ground. The church is founded upon
these three elements, bound together by the unyielding cord
of an infallible, unquestionable revelation. With such a reli¬
gion all progress is impossible. It is founded outside the
natural world altogether, and where there is miracle and
mystery, superstition is sure to follow, forming not a progres¬
sive religion, but a religion which chains men down. A
miracle is simply an absurdity, worse than useless, and dero¬
gatory to God; if God could not foresee the destiny of man
for a few thousands of years, and was obliged to perform
several miracles to put matters right, why should we trust
Him in what He is said to have stated about days to come ?
With a God who rules and governs perfectly, mishaps and
repentance are out of the question. Miracles we must rule
out of court entirely. In dealing with what we do not under¬
stand, we must not bring in assumptions to cover our ignor¬
ance. *“ A miracle,” says the Church, “ is a special evidence
on the part of God of His preference for our particular reli¬
gion.” But then some other persons must suffer from the
want of this special favour, with which only a small minor¬
ity is blessed. We have a higher God than that who gives
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
all his blessings in the shape of laws and principles to all his
people.
Will any of the modern dispensers of the mercies and
bounties of the everlasting God, admit whether they act under
spiritual influence, or under the influence of ordinary college
education ? If they say that they act under inspiration, then
they are in our position, and are Spiritualists. If they say
they do not act under spiritual influence, but have received
their power by ordinary education, how are we to know that
they are specially called either by God or his ministering
spirits ? A practical acquaintance with the world, its duties
and its evils, best teaches a man how to save the world, there¬
fore we do not believe in a priesthood separated from the rest
of mankind. The dead and buried of the past come up and
say that in the before-time, when the last great wave of spiri¬
tual truth swept over the world, the hearts of men were lifted
up, and then did they indeed find that the great and eternal
God was the loving Father of all mankind, and that inspira¬
tion was a fact.
We will tell you our idea of inspiration. The physical
bodies of men depend upon physical forces for maintenance, a
constant supply of these forces being derived from food and
drink. But if religion he true, there must be a spiritual ex¬
istence within the body of man ; this existence cannot be de¬
pendent upon nothing; it came from God, and is dependent
upon a continuous inspiration of life and divinity, from the
source whence it came. You may reply—“ But some persons
lead anything but inspired lives.” A faulty musical instru¬
ment cannot be made-to give the higher notes and tones ; so
also an imperfectly constructed human body cannot give forth
the divine inspiration which a better body can do, so on*your
head rests the sin. This is a natural law.
The shades of the pa3t say that miracle has no existence,
save to the ignorant and credulous, who think everything out
of their ordinary experience to be a miracle, just as some
believe that unusual natural phenomena in the heavens pre¬
sage national disasters. ' They think that when rain does not
fall, it is a special judgment of God, and all the little petty
parsons go down on their knees to ask Him to do, not what He
knows is best to be done/ but what they think best. Law
rules all existence, therefore miracle can have no place in
existence. Although theology is replete with miracles, so is
science, but no scientific man calls them miracles ; he knows
them to be due to the action of wondrous laws in nature, of
which the ignorant populace know nothing. For every so-
called miracle there is a natural or a spiritual solution, and
once the solution given, it ceases to be a miracle. The light
of modern Spiritualism shows that inspiration is the essence
of religion, and that God is its head. “But if wonders take
place now,” you may ask, “ how much has God to do with
them?” We may say that He has nothing to do with them,
or has all to do with them.' The inspiration of each man-made
religion is supposed by its followers to be due to the direct
action of their particular personal God. It is so with the
Christian religion, whose prophets assert, “ Thus saith the
Lord.” This is the canker-worm which has eaten away the
spiritual bloom of the religion, and doomed it to decline into a
superstition. The rational man cannot conceive that the
Eternal Mind of the universe mixes itself up with little petty
squabbles about priests, vestments, bread and wine, or baptism
by immersion.
The inspiration which God has to do with is the inspiration
which reaches every living soul. The “dead” live in the
after-life, and are the friends of those they have left behind.
By the aid of certain sensitives, prophets, mediums—call them
what you will—this army of the mighty dead is, and has been
able to give sign and tokens to humanity, proving the spiritual
nature in man. The material cannot understand that which
is spiritual, and man is in essence a spiritual being. The
function of religion is to classify the experiences of the human
race, and to draw truth therefrom; to create an army of living
inspirationalists who shall form an apostolic brotherhood, to
promote the flowering of human souls to usefulness and
beauty.
Good and intelligent men have embraced the doctrines of
Spiritualism, yet bow down before th@ teachings of spirits,
which is a great and absolute mistake of which we wish you to
steer clear. Give the spirit all credit for candour and honesty;
receive the teaching if it appeals to your reason, common
sense, and experience, but do not be influenced one jot beyond;
and when you receive a truth act upon it. Our words this
day, for instance, go for what they are worth, without claiming
any authority; we give what are our views to-day, to-morrow
they may be changed in the light of higher knowledge. An
infallible religion is a curse. Make Spiritualism broad and
progressive.
Mr. Chapman—In your last address here you are alleged to
have addressed the Almighty as “ Dread Sovereign.” Do you
wish that expression to remain, or is it a mistake made by the
reporter ?
Mr. Morse (still in the trance): We adhere to it. A God so
far above human comprehension must be a subject of awe, of
dread, to those who try to approach nearer to so great a source
of glory. We used the word “dread” in the sense of
“ veneration,” not as descriptive of an angry or vindictive God.
The proceedings then closed with the singing of a hymn. '
In the evening Mr. Morse gave a second address under
spirit influence, and the hall was quite full on the occasion.
MR. FEGAN-EGERTOFS MElHUMSHIP.
- Me. Ambeose Fegan-Egebton, of 22, Martensen-street,
Wavertree-road, Liverpool, is one of the best physical
mediums in that town. The manifestations through his
mediumship are of much the same nature as those witnessed
through the mediumship of Mr. Williams, but as yet spirits
have not been able to temporarily materialise their forms
through Mr. Egerton’s mediumship.
Last Sunday evening a seance at which Mr. Egerton was
the medium, was held at the house of Mr. E. Banks, 79,
Boundary-lane, West Derby-road,- Liverpool. The witnesses
also present were—Mr. S. Hockin, Rosewain, Camborne ; Mr.
W. Meredith, 79, Gregson-street, Liverpool; Mr. J. Mayle;'
Mrs. Banks; Miss Cherry Shepherd and Mr, Joseph Shep¬
herd, Everton-crescent, Liverpool; Mr. J. Chapman, 10, Dun-
keld-street, Liverpool; Mr. Charlton, Richmond-grove, Liver¬
pool ; Mr. E. Jackson, Boundary-lane, Liverpool; and Mr.
W. H. Harrison, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, London.
After sitting a few minutes, the table went up in the air several
times, both when it was touched and when it was not touched
by the sitters; in the latter case, the hands were all placed
about eight inches above its surface, and it rose two or three
times about four inches, in strong gaslight. The levitations
were seen by everybody present.
Afterwards there was a dark seance. A spirit, calling
himself “ Jack Todd,” who states that in earth-life he was a
highwayman, spoke in the direct voice, but, until he gained
power, his utterances were not very distinct, Mr. Egerton’s
mediumship being not yet- fully developed as regards the
spirit-voice.
Musical instruments flew about the room in the usual way,
playing, and gently touching the various sitters in their flight.
When the attention of the spirits was arrested by speaking to
them, they two or three times immediately let the instruments
fall, showing that they have not yet the full control of them,
which they will gain eventually.
All through the dark seance both of Mr. Egerton’s hands
were held by the sitters on either side of him.
The ring test was given. A band of zinc, about an inch
and a-half broad, had been firmly soldered at the end, so as
to form a ring about seven inches in diameter. This ring
was passed on to Mr. Harrison’s arm, while he and Mr.
Egerton had their hands joined, so that the phenomenon was
presented of matter passing through matter. Mr. Banks
stated that a few days previously, a gentleman had the ring
similarly threaded on his arm, but he felt a pain in the arm ;
and on turning up his sleeve to examine it, a broad blue mark
like a bruise, and the size of the width of the ring, was found
all round his arm. A few days later this coloured band on
the skin turned yellow, just as a bruise would have done.
The gentleman was evidently an incipient seeing medium, as
he was startled by the sight of a spirit-face at the moment
the ring was put on his arm, but nobody else present saw the
face.
In Mr. Egerton’s mediumship, the power to give the ring
test has fully developed before the spirit voice manifestations
have attained their full power, which has not been the case
with other physical mediums, so far as our knowledge extends.
Mr. Egerton is also a trance medium. He will be in London
in six or seven days’ time, and will remain for a week.
Psychological Society oe Edinbuegh.—At a recent
meeting of the Psychological Society of Edinburgh, it was
resolved that the Spiritualist newspaper should be the only
recognised organ of the society, for its outside communica¬
tions—that is, for all communications with the public not
printed and published by itself.
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iloetri).
NEARING THE SHORE.
An old man sits in a worn arm-chair,
White as snow is his thin, soft hair,
Furrowed his cheek by time and care,
And back and forth it sways;
There’s a far-away form in his dim, dim eye
Which tells of thoughts of the long gone-by,
For he sits once more ’neath a cloudless sky,
And in childhood merrily plays.
He rests his cheek on the head of his cane,
And happily smiling dreams over again
Of that home, the brook, the meadow, the lane,
Dreams all with a vision clear;
Then childhood yields unto manhood’s place,
And he looks once more in her bright, bright face,
And down in the starry eyes he can trace
A love remembered and dear.
Then he wakes and sighs: “ It seems but a dream,
That comes to me now like a golden gleam,
Or the shimmering glow of the sun’s last beam,
But ’tis pleasant to think it o’er,
That youth was so sweet, but now is past,
Those days of love were too precious to last, •
But over yonder their pleasures are cast,
And I am nearing the shore.”
He is gliding on in his little boat;
O’er the calm, still water they peacefully float,
But echo full oft brings a well-known note
From the land he has left behind.
But time will row back for him no more
And he gazes away to that other shore,
And hopes when the voyage of life shall be o’er
That his dream beyond he will find.
The seeds of youth, which in youth we sow,
Adown through the isles of the future will grow,
And shed on age a beautiful glow,
As they come in memory’s gleams.
Loved faces will come to dimming sight;
Sweet words will echo in day dreams bright,
And circle old age with their halos of light
As they mingle in beautiful dreams.
—The Universe (Boston, U.S.)
PROPHETIC VISIONS.
One of the most inexplicable facts connected with Spi¬
ritualism is the power occasionally developed in mediums
of foreseeing future events in all their minute details. In an
article by Mr. T. Grant, of Maidstone, published in the
Medium newspaper some time since, three interesting illus¬
trations of such circumstances are given, thus :—
When my friend Mrs. Spear returned to America, in 1866,
she experienced in a dream or vision, about a week before
sailing, all the sensations and circumstances of a fearful
storm at sea. Her own sufferings, and the sufferings of her
fellow-passengers, were perfectly real to her ; and she noted
as minutely as possible as well the persons and peculiarities
of her companions as the furniture and surroundings of the
cabin, and the particular actions of individuals. She was so
terrified and affected by this vision, that she desired to put
off her departure, but it was then too- late to do so. When
she arrived at her destination, she wrote me an account of
her voyage, and stated that she encountered a storm which'
proved to be an exact repetition of her vision, even to the
smallest particular. All her companions she had seen before,
and each one enacted his or her part precisely as she had
foreseen ; and what is remarkable is, that, to her senses, the
reality appeared the dream, and the dream the reality ; for
in the real storm she was like a looker-on in a theatrical
scene, knowing beforehand what would happen, and what
each person would do. The terror and suffering, therefore,
which she endured in her dream, she did not experience in
the actual event. This lady afterwards, in the same manner,
went through a severe earthquake in California several days
before it occurred.
A very estimable and intelligent relative of my wife’s, now
more than sixty years of age, had a vision when a girl, during
a serious illness, in which she passed through all the most
remarkable scenes of her future life, which, as they have
occurred in succession, have appeared to her like experiences
of the past, even to the fulfilment of little details. Thus, at
a', death-scene of a relative, the persons present and their
individual acts accorded precisely with what she had wit¬
nessed in the vision more than forty years before ; and when,
nearly twenty years since, she visited my newly-built residence
at Maidstone, and walked along the banks of the river, the
June 15, 1873.
occurrence and the whole scene came back to her memory in
the same way.
My father’s brother saw and minutely described, several
weeks before he died, what proved to be his own funeral,
detailing the decorations and appointments, which were very
remarkable and handsome, being all in white. He named
the numerous persons present, and their order in the pro¬
cession. The whole description was exactly correct, although,
in ordering the funeral, the vision had been entirely forgotten,
and no precise instructions were given to the undertaker, who
exercised his own judgment in the matter.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
The last number of tbe Spiritual Magazine contains
the following valuable certificate :—
177, Holloway-road, May 6th, 1873.
I hereby certify that the statements in the Spiritualist, of
May 1st, concerning the photographs taken by me are untrue,
and in particular I deny that I ever published that I would not
guarantee my pictures to be genuine. F. A. Hudson.
The Medium newspaper of May 31st, 1872, con¬
tained the following: —
Special Conditions.—In consequence of threats, prosecu¬
tions, witchcraft, cheating, &c., and considering the sufferings
of Mr. Mumler, by the advice of my solicitors, T will not
guarantee them as spirit-photographs. I leave the sitters to
form their own conclusions; I will have no controversy.
177, Holloway-road. F. A. Hudson.
Of course, by a species of legal twisting, an inge¬
nious advocate might plead that the above certificates
are not contradictory, but plain straightforward people
will form their own conclusions.
Mr. John Beattie, photographer, of Clifton, a Spi¬
ritualist, publishes a long letter in the last Spiritual
Magazine, answering some bogus evidence, in the shape
of a quasi-scientific letter published therein. In the
course of his letter Mr. Beattie says,—
“ I was one who at once, but, at the same time, free from all
rashness, pronounced the photographs alluded to to be not
only deception, but deception of the stupidest kind, and more,
that the evidence was so palpable that, unless we are to become
as “ little children ” in common observation, and very weak
children too, we could not but see them as such. And yet you
allow the pages of the Magazine to be taken up with trying to
prove that, after all, these things may be genuine.”
When we were on the spot, examining and inquiring,
for several days, about the alleged spirit photographs,
wonderful stories reached us of sitters having obtained
recognised likenesses of deceased relatives. The point
at issue being a vital one, we investigated many of
these cases, and found that in many instances the
features were so faint, or otherwise imperfect, that any
independent observer would pronounce them to be in¬
distinguishable. In some cases there were no features
at all, but spirit-messages were given elsewhere, stating
them to be all right. In other cases, the sitter “felt
positively convinced” that Mr. Hudson’s pictures were
genuine, but had no recognisable spirit. Slowly one
or two dozen wonderful cases were by inquiry nar¬
rowed down into two,—namely, those of Mr. H. E.
Russell and Mr. B. W. Pycock, though, doubtless, there
are other good cases.
The Editor of the Spiritual Magazine did not, like
ourselves and other inquirers, give time and expense to
investigating, and was conspicuous by his absence.
Consequently, he knew nothing of these sources of
error, accepted all the floating stories, and got up a list,
since published in the book “ Where are the Dead ? ”
of some forty cases of recognised spirit portraits. We
assert that some of the sitters never stated that they
recognised the forms in those photographs, also that many
June 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
of the other portraits would be stated, by any indepen¬
dent observer, to be unrecognisable, and to allow plenty
of room for the play of the enthusiastic imagination.
We have furnished the author of the book with the
names of two persons in the list, whose cases we chance
to remember at this distance of time, and who have not
obtained recognised likenesses of deceased friends, and
we assert that clear-headed, practical examination
would probably result in the reducing of the number
of cases in the list from forty to six or ten.
The Editor of the Spiritual Magazine has never seen
many of the sham pictures which he, who knows
nothing of photography, has declared to be genuine.
Pictures were issued from the establishment which
were not true copies of any negative taken in any
camera, but manufactured by well-known photographic
tricks, the negatives having also, in some instances,
been elaborately worked upon by hand with a cutting
instrument. It is a great pity that, from complete
incompetence to deal with the subject, a gentleman,
who knows nothing of photography, should have pub¬
licly guaranteed the genuine character of dummy
photographs he has never seen, and wasted so much
space in the spiritual journals.
We admit, and have admitted from the first, some of
the spirit photographs taken at Holloway to be genuine.
It is one of those cases, so painful and difficult to deal
with, where mediumship has been aided by tricks prac¬
tised by more than one person; and, before taking
public action in the matter, the editor of the Spiritual
Magazine unwisely acted upon statements made to him
by one or two individuals deeply interested in screening
the erring photographer.
A SPIRITUAL CONFERENCE IN LIYERPOOL.
The Liverpool Psychological Society has resolved that
a conference of Spiritualists shall be held in Liverpool
early next August, and the society desires that the
meeting shall be a national one. The announcement
will come unexpectedly to London Spiritualists, because
they have to be consulted in the matter after the hold¬
ing of the conference has been decided upon and pub¬
licly announced, instead of before, and unless London
Spiritualists take the matter up, the title of “ national ”
will be a misnomer. Still, whether it shall be a national
conference or a local conference, a general meeting is
sure to be beneficial to the cause of Spiritualism, and
the friends in Liverpool have no other desire in getting
up the meeting, than the broad and liberal one of doing
whatever may be deemed best to promote the welfare of
the movement. We have inquired what is the special
work to be done by the conference, and have been in¬
formed that no programme has yet been drawn up, but
that suggestions from Spiritualists in all parts of the
country are invited as to the work it shall do. This
programme should be drawn up as quickly as possible,
preferably after consultation with the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism, which, in the
absence of organisation in the metropolis, is the most re¬
presentative body London Spiritualists possess, although
only a local society. Spiritualists everywhere should
try to make the meeting successful, but should the
meeting not prove to be a national one, the title should
be altered, in fairness to the great body of English
Spiritualists. For instance, last year a little meeting of
some fifty friends of Spiritualism, chiefly resident in
Darlington and its neighbourhood, was called a l< Na¬
tional Conference of Spiritualists,” and if the Darling¬
ton newspapers and public believed the statement, very
erroneous ideas, disadvantageous to Spiritualism, as to
the extent and nature of the movement, must have been
implanted in the district. It was a small local meeting of
earnest workers, and an attempt was made to warp its
proceedings to serve a private trade interest. Not half
a dozen people in London had anything to do with it,
or gave it any support. The Liverpool Society wishes
to do all the good it can, and, if the programme of the
conference proves to be a good and important one, the
step should be well supported; on the other hand,
should circumstances make the meeting a purely local
one, the title should be altered, in fairness to the great
body of unrepresented English Spiritualists. An ad¬
vertisement on the subject will be found upon another
page, and we have received the following letter.:—
“ Sib,—I send you a copy of the minutes of a special meet¬
ing of the Liverpool Psychological Society, held on the 29th of
May, at the Islington Hall, thirty persons being present:—
, ‘ The Yice-President, Mr. John Lament, introduced the
subject of the next National Conference; and it was proposed
by Mr. Meredith, seconded by Mr. Gay, and unanimously
carried—That arrangements be made for the next National
Conference, to be held in this town (Liverpool). * Proposed by
Mr. Archibald Lament and seconded by Mr. Dean, and also
carried unanimously—That three days be devoted to the
holding of the Conference, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs¬
day, 5th, 6th, and 7th of August. Agreed, that a Spe¬
cial Committee of Management be appointed to carry on
all arrangements connected therewith. The following persons
wbre appointed as the Committee of Management:—Messrs.
Gay, Meredith, Chatham, Brogden, Chapman, Higginson, and
J. Lamont; Mr. David B. Bamsay, 16, South Castle-street,
Corresponding and Recording Secretary.
“ ‘ It was further agreed that the Secretary be instructed to
send the report of the above meeting to be published in the
Medium and Spiritualist; and to request Mr. Burns to corres¬
pond with the Secretary upon the future programme, &c.
“ ‘ The chairman pressed upon the newly-formed committee
the necessity of entering fully and heartily into their work, and
he hoped all other societies would co-operate by sending their
representatives and contributions to carry out the grand ob¬
jects contemplated.’ J._ Chapman, Hon. Secretary."
MR. FOSTER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The 'Spiritual Magazine last month contains some letters
from Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Springfield, Massachusetts, to her
father-in-law, Dr. A. A. Andrews, of 'Windsor, Ontario,
Canada West, in the course of which Mrs. Andrews says :—
Foster is considered to be one of the best, if not the best,
test-medium in this country. I think it likely that his powers
are somewhat affected by his habits. All mediumship pro¬
duces more or less nervous exhaustion, and temptation to
recruit the bodily forces by stimulants-is great. As a result,
many mediums get into the habit of using intoxicating drinks
(particularly those who become noted for their great powers).
They are called upon to sit so much, and so long, that prostra¬
tion is produced, which seems to make some stimulant neces¬
sary. Mr. Foster is much loved by his friends, and is
considered by Dr. Gray and others who know him to be an
honourable, warm-hearted man. He is not a man of educa¬
tion and refinement, but he has seen a good deal of the world,
and his experience in this way, together with his kind heart,
prevents his being what I call coarse. You may imagine that
his physical condition is often such as to interfere with his
mediumship ; that it does not do so more surprises me.
About noon to-day Dr. Gray drove with me to Mr.
Foster’s house, and having an engagement, left me there
without mentioning my name. Foster desired me to seat
myself at a rather large square table in the centre of the
room, the doors being closed, and no other person present.
He seated himself on my right, as it were at the head of the
table, I being on one side of it, telling me to place my hands
upon it. The raps came loud and desisted the momtnt after
we were seated. I was asked by the medium whether there
was any particular spirit with' whom I wished to communi-
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
cate, and on my replying in the affirmative, he desired me to
write upon slips of paper with a pen the names of several
departed friends, not allowing him to see what I wrote. I
wrote the names, “Mr. E. A. Jones,” “Joseph Andrews,”
“ Thos. P. Jones,” “ Harold, “ Ernest Augustus,” folded each
up separately and closely, and mixed them together, so that I
did not myself know one from another. I gave them into his
hand. After holding them a moment, he let them all fall
upon the table, and taking up a pencil, wrote with the greatest
rapidity, “ Dear mother, words cannot express how glad I am
to be with you ; I am by your side most of the time, and
would assist and help you upward to the spirit-life, where we
shall meet and be happy with each other. I love to come to
you, and you shall often be made aware of my presence.—
Harold.” I asked if the words were exactly the same as
those of the spirit, and Mr. F. replied that the phraseology
might possibly be modified in passing through his brain, but
not the thoughts expressed. I was here asked by the medium
to put any question I chose. I asked, in spoken words, “ Can
he tell you the cause of his being taken from this world ?”
The reply coming instantaneously, “He tells me he was
killed.”' I then asked, “ Will he give me, through you, the
name of his brother ?” Foster desired me to point one after
another at the letters of a printed alphabet upon a card held
out of his sight under the table. Three loud clear raps came
at each letter of the name, “ Launcelot,”- and then suddenly,
almost simultaneously with the last rap, the medium’s hand
wrote, with lightning-like rapidity, “ Dear mother, as a test to
you that I am here, I want you to give .Launcelot my tools.—
Harold.” The words Launcelot and tools were underscored
as here. “ But,” said Foster, “ is that a given name? I never
heard it. You do not spell it with a ‘ u ’ in it, do you ? ” (I
might think this ignorance strange had I not had the same
remark made several times by uncultivated people.) I re¬
quested Foster to ask whether my little boy could spell out
the name of a little child whom he loved very much. Three
loud raps answered without Foster having spoken. The
medium called the alphabet, but the raps were frequent and
confused ; I then pointed it, with the same result, so that I
feared it would be a failure, when Foster called out, “ Stop;
he says he can write it on my hand;” and, giving a slight
exclamation of pain, as one might do from a' pin prick, he
held out his hand, closed, immediately in front of me. At
first I saw nothing, but in an instant the name “ Bertie,” in
large writing, letters, appeared on the back of the,hand, as if
formed with a pen dipped in blood; or, rather, as if small
veins just beneath the surface, formed in perfectly distinct
and legible characters, the name I had asked for, and which
had been neither spoken nor written by me. Foster spoke of
other spirits being present, of the influence being very strong,
and added, “ One says he is 1 Ernest Augustus,’ and thinks he
could manifest in form through Dr. Slade.” I here asked,'
“ Will Harold spell for me his second name ?” As before, the
frequent eager raps failed to give the spelling on pointing the
letters, but Foster’s hand wrote, “ Harold Saxon Andrews,”
the name Saxon not having been on either of the slips of
paper, nor spoken by me. After Bertie’s name appeared on
Foster’s hand, he wrote, as if from sudden, eager impulse,
“Give Bertie* something,” and then, listening a moment,
added, in spoken words, “ He says, give him one of my books;
he wants mother to choose which. Will you,” addressing me,
“ write the name of several books which he had, and several
which he had not, and fold the strips up as before?” I did
so, saying, “ One of these books my little boy read oftener
than any other ; I wish he would tell me which one it was ?”
After a moment’s pause, as if one listening to a low whisper,
Foster spoke, “ He says it was*the book of f German Fairy
Tales;’ ” which we all know to be correct. “ Your little boy also
says,” added Foster, “ Give Bertie one of my coats.” I asked
which ? “ He says the light or white coat,”' replied Foster.
I am not certain which coat was meant. As a crowning test,
I asked our darling to tell me if he could remember what were
the last words he spoke to me. Foster said he feared I should
not get this ; that from forgetfulness, or some other cause, the
spirits often failed to answer this question, when, after a
pause on the part of the medium, as of one waiting to hear or
trying to remember something, he burst out with the words,
“ Ask Robbie Day to wait; I will not be gone five minutes.”
Before the end of this seance, Dr. Gray came in and seated
himself near us. When the “ last words ” were spoken, I was
overcome, and could not control my emotions. Mr. Foster
kindly laid his hand on my shoulder, saying, “ Oh, don’t
grieve, you know that he is happy and near you now,” when
Dr. Gray, with a sympathy and understanding born from like
June 15, 1873.
experiences, said, “ Oh, let her weep; she will never again
shed such bitter tears as in the past.” And I think that time,
and, if need be, further trial, will prove the truth of his words.
In these notes I neglected to mention (it seemed to me of so
little importance) that, before I left, Foster asked me to rise,
he doing the same, and both of us holding our hands some
inches from the table; he then asked, “ Will the spirits please
lift the table?” It was lifted so high that it was difficult for
me to reach above it, and remained suspended while I counted
twenty. But this kind of thing I cared little about, and never
asked for; it was not what I sought.
A good man and a wise man may at times be angry with
the world, at times grieved at it; but be sure no man was
ever discontented with the world if he did his duty in it.
Spiritualism at Manchester.—The next number of
the Spiritualist will contain much news about Spiritualism in
Manchester. There will be some large meetings there to-day,
and the Editor of this journal has gone to stay a few days at
Manchester with his friend Mr. Charles Blackburn, at Park-
field, Didsbury, and hopes to be benefitted in the midst of its
beautiful scenery. Mr. Blackburn has just received a letter
from Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, who is l;eeturing in Phila¬
delphia on electricity and other scientific subjects, and has
had the pleasure of meeting there the Earl and Countess of
Caithness.
The Prodigal Son.—My brethren and sisteren: I shall
maik sum remarks this mornin based upon the bootiful
parable of the prodygal sun. I wood read 2 you the passij,
but the BibleT hev is the only wun in the township, and I
lent it yisterdy 2 Square Gavitt, who sed swarin witnesses on
almanacs woodent do in hoss cases, and he hasent brung it back.
The skripter sez, in substance:—There was a certin man who
had 2 suns. The yungist hed a taist fer that branch uv agricul-
tooral persoots known ez sowin wild oats, so he askt the old
man fer his sheer uv the estait. He got it, turnd it into
greenbax, and went off. He commenst living high—hording
at big hotels, and keepin trottin bosses, and playin bilyards,
and sich. In about a year he run thro his pile, and wuz ded
break. Then his credit playd out, and he wuz in a tite place
for his daily bred. The idee struck him that he hed better
put for hum, wich he did. The old man saw him a cumin,
and he run out and met him, and giv him a new cote, and a
order for a pare uv shoes, and kild a fat caff, and hed flour
doins. The oldest boy obgected 2 these sayin, “ Lo I hav
served thee these menny yeres, and thou never madest no
splurge over me, but when this thy sun, who hez fooled away
his pile, returns you kill calves and sich.” Then the old man
retorts saying, “ My sun who wuz lost is found, the sheep who
went astray is cum back, let us be merry.”—The LTasly
Papers.
Unexpected Messages.—Newspaper abuse of Spiritual¬
ism rarely possesses the merit of being amusing, but The San
Francisco Call differs from most of its contemporaries in this
respect. In a recent issue it says:—“ A number of jovial
fellows' who are ‘up to’ all the little artifices of these pre¬
tended mediums, and rather clever themselves at the execu¬
tion of Spiritualistic ‘ miracles,’ are amusing themselves by
exposing those who are amassing riches by imposing upon the
credulous. They unexpectedly call, in couples, upon different
pretenders, secure a private performance, and then expose its
baseness. For instance, two of them called upon a Mr. Slade,
who puts a bit of pencil under a slate and affects to subse¬
quently show what the spirits have written. The couple
wanted a communication from Washington. Preparations
were made to give it, but one of the sitters manipulated the
slate more expeditiously than the medium, and on the slate,
when it was turned over, was found these lines:—‘ Slade’s
pencil-writing is not done by spirits. Neither is this. Both
are humbugs.—G. Washington.” Just imagine the scene that
followed! At another medium’s house they demanded a
parley with the spirit of Tom Paine; but when it came it
read, ‘I am indeed happy in the spirit-land, and glad to
state that I was not humbugged while in the earth-form by
spirit mediums.—Thomas Paine.” But a third party did"still
better than this. They visited a medium who pretended to
go off in a cataleptic fit, and in that condition to utter
what the spirits dictated. But one of the visitors was a
ventriloquist, and when the lips of the medium seemed to
move, horrible to relate, they seemed to s^y, ‘ Take this
medium out and give him a drink 1 ’ I need s^y no more on
that head. Fancy the medium suddenly leaping to his feet
with a laugh he could not resist! Fancy his thirst! ”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
June 15, 1873.
ANSWERS tO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several letters are kept over, because of want of space in this
number.
Subscriber.—He has no printing office, and the journal is printed
by contract. It is very generous to pay a printer unusually high
rates if fye has not proper machinery, or to give him machinery
gratis to enable him to do the work on the ordinary trade terms.
Dr. Hugh M‘Leod will read a paper before tbe members
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on
Thursday evening, June 26th.
Several new mediums have been developed in conse¬
quence of the circulation of the Spiritual leaflets. One of the
students in a college near Liverpool has discovered himself to
be a powerful medium, and three or four other cases of new
mediumship have come to our knowledge.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
TflEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE.—At a
general meeting of the Liverpool Psychological Society held on the
29th May last, it was decided to hold jthe ANNUAL NATIONAL CON¬
FERENCE of Spiritualists in the above town this year on the 5th, 6th, and
7th of August, and in order to facilitate the operations of the Committee
appointed to carry out the project, I would be glad if the secretaries of
societies would communicate with me at their earliest convenience, in order
that some idea may be formed as to the number of delegates likely to be
present. David B. Ramsay,
Secretary of the Conference Committee.
16, Castle-street, Liverpool.
June 12th, 1873.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
EPPS’S COCOA."— The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our-
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Cloek, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE-MEDIUM, IS OPEN TO
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.C., when he is in London,
where letters, &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGY, THE BASIS OF SPIRITUALISM.
PROFESSOR RAYES IS OPEN TO ENGAGEMENTS
for Experimental Lectures; also to teach Psychology for Scientific,
Recreative, or Healing purposes. Patients visited by appointment,' and
help given to Investigators of Spiritualism in the formation of Private
Circles. A Practical Instruction Book, entitled Electro-Biology Explained,
or, The Principles of Psychic Control in Health and Disease, may be had by
those unable to take Private Lessons. Address, 38, Blissett-street, Green¬
wich, S.E.
TO BIBLE COLLECTORS.—FOR SALE.—BLACK
LETTER BREECHES BIBLE (Geneva edition), 1610. Condition,
PERFECT. Size, 11£ ins. by 8 ins., by 3£ ins. Annotated throughout, with
appendices of i,the Apocrypha, New Testament, and the Psalms collected
into English metre, and set to music. Tenders are invited. Address
Antiquarian,’’ 12, High-street, Bow, Lbndon, E.
Apartments.—bed-room and use of parlours,
with piano. Extra small room, if required. Suitable for lady or
gentleman interested in Spiritualism. Terms very moderate; society chief
object. Inquire at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
► EGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
^ their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from    0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from .. ... 3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit ... .♦. £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist —
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq    15 0 0
“A Friend at a Distance’’   10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“A Friend.”  5 5 0
M. Alexandre Aksakof (St. Petersburg)     5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq      5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S  ... i.. 5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox   ... ... 5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)        ... 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart .' ... ... 5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq ,   5 0 0
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq    5 0 0
Justice       5 0 0
F. S. A  '  .„   5 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D    5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder     1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder ...    ... ... 10 0
Mrs. Rudd ...   ... 10 0"
“Longfellow” ...   1 0 0
Mr. Withall      ♦.  10 0
Mr. E. Bird < 10 0
Mr. George Dawson          10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers      10 0
Mr. Rogers      10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald      10 0
Mrs. Gunyon ... ’   : 10 0
 8 0 0
“Bitterness”...        4 4 0
“A Friend” (Temple)   ... '  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq  3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S. ... ...    3 3 0
James Wason, Esq.   .„      3 3 0
Algernon Joy, Esq  2 10 0
The Countess of Caithness - ... ...      2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston    2 2 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq    2 2 0
John Beattie, Esq  2 0 0
“A Friend ” (Bloomsbury)  2 2 0
Mrs. Hennings      2 0 0
“A Friend’’(Manchester)    110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq »    11 0
E. Musgrave, Esq        110
“V.”...     110
A Clergyman of the Church of England   1 1 0
B. W. Pycock, Esq   ...    ...110
Arthur Maltby, Esq  110
G. Thomson, Esq,, MD. ... ■  ... 1 0 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell ...      10 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)   1 0 0
A Friend,” F.R.S   10 0
Miss Kislingbury  1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory      1 0 0
Miss J. H. Douglas ... ... ... "    .1 0 0
“AFriend”      ...10 0
John E.Purdon, Esq,, M.B.      1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq  ;  0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman,Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
240
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 15, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. "Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
* 3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or imbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members-of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. "When motions , of the table, or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion,.let.one person only.speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that .three, tilts or raps mean “Yes,” j
one means. 2 No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some, niembers of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ "Who is the medium ? ” "When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of'an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly.bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson. Esq.. F.G.S., G.'"WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.;'Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.: Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq-; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; "William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq:, Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace,Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
- “ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL B00K-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-on- Tyne.
EBIRD, Builder, Hou^e-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches. .
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 68, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham,
Foolscap 8vo., cloth! Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “The Happy Islands,” “ The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street. ,
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
