A ^ECOF(D Of THE PROQREJ3£ Of THE ^CIEfCE >ND ETHICS OF £PJfITU/flfM.
No. 22.—Vol. I.
LONDON : THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
MR. WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., OK DISEMBODIED
SPIRITS.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has recently constructed
•some apparatus, by means of which at Mr. D. D. Home’s
^eccnces he has not only confirmed the experiments of
Professor Boutlerow and M. Aksakof at St. Petersburg!!,
hut has obtained results far more remarkable under test
conditions. He is going to brave public opinion by
telling the truth, and intends to publish the details of
his experiments, with engravings, in the next number
of the Quarterly Journal of Science, which comes out on
the first of July. This is not only pleasing news to
English Spiritualists, but the support of Mr. Crookes
will strengthen the hands of Professor Boutlerow and
M. Aksakof, who in a despotic country like Russia, have
to fight so much harder a battle on the side of truth
than we have to do here.
Now that the attention of English men of science has
been somewhat seriously drawn towards Spiritualism, so
far as we can learn, the feeling towards the subject is
one of tolerable fairness, and good feeling. Last
Thursday, Mr. C. E. Yarley was elected a Eellow of
the Royal Society, despite the prejudice among the un¬
informed public against his religious convictions in the
matter of Spiritualism. We have heard that Professor
Tyndall was one of the warmest advocates in favour of
his election. Professor Tyndall is doubtless beginning
to get a glimmering of the havoc he has made with his
scientific reputation, when in the future it will be ex¬
amined from a historical point of view, because of the
attitude he thoughtlessly and unwisely took with re¬
spect to the attempts now being made on the part of
twYo-called “ dead ” to communicate with the living.
However, what has been done cannot be undone, and it
had better be forgotten.
The Royal Society will lose nothing in reputgjion by
the election of men like Mr. Yarley, who enter it solely
on their scientific merits. Not a few have been elected
in late years on other grounds, and this course of action
has planted dissensions in the society itself, which dis¬
sensions became visible to some extent in a fierce fight
which took place recently over the election of one of the
officers.
The following letters show the present relationship of
Mr. Crookes to the subject of Spiritualism :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sib,—The enclosed letter which I received the other
day from Mr. Crookes, E.R.S., may be interesting to
your readers. You are at liberty to publish it.
J. H. D.
20, Mornington-road, N.W.
May 10th, 1871.
Deab Miss D—.—I think the following expresses
the idea which was in my mind the other evening, and
which you asked me to put on paper.
Historical testimony is overwhelming as to the fact
of communications having been made to mortals from
invisible intelligent beings distinct from the human
race; and contemporary evidence to similar occurrences
is accumulating daily.
The subject can be approached from its sentimental
and theological side, or examined in its scientific
aspect, and without wishing in the least to disparage
the labours of the many earnest enquirers who are pur¬
suing their work under the guidance of their feelings, I
think that for my part I am likely to do most good by
following the bent of my own intellect, and examining
the subject purely in its scientific relations.
From this point of view it appears to be a matter for
legitimate scientific enquiry to ascertain :—
Eirst: If we have a spirit distinct from the body,
and if this can be demonstrated by any other proof than
the doubtful and disputable one of Revelation ?
Secondly: If so, what is the relationship of spirit
to matter; what are its powers when so united, and
what are its capabilities when in the free state ?
Thirdly: If distinct intelligent spiritual entities do
exist, are they the spirits of dead men, or are they an
order of beings separate from the human race ?
Fourthly : Do these intelligent beings communicate
with us mortals at the present day; and are they en¬
deavouring to improve the means of communication ?
An enquiry of this kind, to be successful, should be
undertaken by a man of science, without feeling and I
without sentiment. All romantic and superstitious I
ideas should be suppressed and he should be guided by
hard intellect alone.
Assuming that there are invisible intelligent beings
trying to communicate with us, it is reasonable to
suppose that improvements can be made in their mode
of telegraphy; and whilst others are obtaining
copiously worded communications, I prefer to devote
myself to the humbler but not less useful work of
acting as telegraphic engineer, endeavouring to improve
the instrumental means at this end of the line, to ascer¬
tain conditions which will render intercouse more cer¬
tain, and generally to get the line in a good state of in¬
sulation. If these views are correct every improvement
in this respect will react on itself, and will lead to
further improvements by facilitating the exchange of ideas
and mutual suggestions between the operators at each
end.—Believe me, dear Miss D., very sincerely yours,
‘William Ckookes.
MARYELLOUS SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
THE HUMAN BODY AND SOLID OBJECTS CABBIED FROM FLACE TO
PLACE AND THROUGH THE WALLS OF HOUSES BY SPIRITS.
Fob a considerable time past the spiritual manifesta¬
tions now so common at various circles in London, have
been growing in power, by a perceptible though slow
process of development. Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Herne, and
Mr. Williams, very often have flowers, fruit, and solid
objects of various kinds brought through their medium-
ship to spirit circles held in closed rooms with locked
doors. Within the past six months these three mediums
have, one or other of them, been present at many circles
held at the following places:—-Mr. Guppy’s; 1, Morland-
villas, Highbury-hill-park, N.; Messrs. Herne and
Williams’s, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn, W.C.;
Mr. James Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, W.; Mrs. C.
Berry’s, nearly opposite the Marble Arch, Hyde-park;
and Mrs. L. M. Gregory’s (widow of the late Professor
Gregory, E.R.S.E.), Green-street, Grosvenor-Square.
All kinds of solid objects have been carried between
these houses by the spirits, and plenty of authenticated
instances have been recently published in the various
spiritual periodicals; John King’s wife, Katie King, is
said by the spirits to manage all this carrying work;
they state that it takes one or two seconds, as a rule,
to transport an article from one of these houses to the
other. The result of this is that the residents in the
said five houses are constantly receiving things without
knowing to whom they belong, and losing things of
their own; this leads very often to letter-writing, and
frequently some little time elapses before the various
articles reach their rightful owners.
In the first number of the Spiritual News (London,
E. W. Allen), there is a well attested report of the |
bringing of a large quantity of fruit to seventeen or i
eighteen ladies and gentlemen by spirits. In number j
three (February, 1871) of the same journal there is'
another well attested case; the seance was held in the ,
house of Mr. Guppy, in a drawing-room twenty-four
feet long by fourteen broad. Thirty-six guests were
present, and there being a. large round table in the |
centre of the room, the room was completely filled by I
the company. The gas was extinguished, and relit
about three minutes later. In that interval feathers j
fell perpendicularly and evenly, like snow, at all parts ,
of the room from wall to wall; the heads, shoulders,!
and knees of the ladies and gentlemen present were
thickly covered with feathers, and the table in the
centre looked like a large circular cake of snow. The
spirits had taken the feathers from a bed upstairs, and
brought them through the ceiling. The “ bed-tick,” :
or covering which enclosed the feathers, has not been |
seen from that day to this. Among the witnesses pre¬
sent were—Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, 1, Morland-villas,!
Highbury-hill-park, N.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Ormond-
street, W.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Ellis, 29, Devonshire-street, ■
Q,ueen’s-square, W.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Combes, 15,
Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Pear- j
son ; Miss Georgian a Houghton, 20, Delamere-crescent, |
W.; Mr. and Miss Shorter, 23, Russell-road, Holloway, j
N.; Mr. W. J. Champernowne, Mr. Russell, and Master j
Turketine, all of Kingston-on-Thames; the Misses
Williamson, 76, Tavistoek-road, Westbourne-park;'
Miss Marie Scott, 76, Tavistock-road, W.; and Mr. W.'
H. Harrison, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill.
Not only have inanimate objects been brought through
walls and ceilings into closed rooms, but living things.
Miss Houghton, of 20, Delamere-crescent, W., once had
a dove brought to her at a circle. Mr. Edwin Ellis, of
29, Devonshire-street, Queen’s-square, W.C., writes in
The Medium newspaper of December 30th, that he and
his father, Dr. Dixon, Miss E. Berry, Mr. Holloway,
Miss Neyland, Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Herne, Mr. Rondi,
and Dr. Davies (the reputed author of the Unorthodox
London letters in the Daily Telegraph) were present at
a circle at Mrs. Berry’s house, when a white cat and a
Maltese dog were brought from Mrs. Guppy’s house by
the spirits, the distance in a straight line being two or
three miles. The dog seemed to be very much surprised,
and yelped and barked all the rest of the evening.
The spirits not only have the power under certain
conditions to bring small animals and large and small
solid objects through the walls of rooms, but they some¬
times float the human body in the air. There are
plenty of instances of this in Mr. Home’s book, and Dr.
Davies narrated at one of the Harley-street meetings,
how he felt Mr. Home all over, while he was floating
about in a semi-darkened room. Mr. E. B. Tylor gave
several instances, in his last lecture at the Royal Insti¬
tution, of statements in historical records, that certain
of the early fathers of the Church were very often floated
in the air. In another column of this journal will be
found an account of how Mr. Herne was floated in the
air in the light. Sometimes, at dark circles, the medium
and his chair are floated about the room, or placed
gently on the table. In the June number of the
Spiritual Magazine for 1867, Mr. A. R. Wallace,^Pre-.
sident of; the Entomological Society, describes a Seance
with Miss Nicholl (now Mrs* Guppy). Mr. Wallace
says:—
“ My friend, Mr. Smith, who was a perfect stranger to all
the rest of the party, sat next the medium and held both her
hands, when her chair was drawn away from under her, and
she was left standing. About a minute afterwards I heard a
slight sound, about as much as would be caused by placing a
wine-glass on the table, accompanied by a movement of the
glass chandelier overhead, and an exclamation from Miss
Nicholl. I saw something dark close in front of me, and
putting out my hand felt a chair and a lady’s dress, and on
procuring a light Miss Nicholl was found seated upon the top
of the table, with her head just touching the chandelier.
The table at which we sat was an ordinary round one, with a
centre pillar and tripod feet. Miss Nicholl is tall, stout, and
very heavy. There were ten persons sitting round the table
as closely as possible. Mr. Smith, who held Miss Nicholl’s
hands, declared that she simply slid away from him ; and the
next instant was found seated on her chair in the middle of
the table, near which there was no other unoccupied chair ;
she was seated under the glass chandelier, where there was
just room for her head, and yet this had been effected instan¬
taneously and noiselessly! If any sceptics read the Spiritual
Magazine, I beg of them to offer some explanation of this
phenomenon. I pledge my word for the reality of the'facts.
. . . This remarkable phenomenon has now occurred to Miss
Nicholl some half dozen times, in different houses in London,
and there must be at least twenty persons of the highest re¬
spectability who can testify to the facts.”
Two or three weeks ago considerable excitement was
caused among London Spiritualists by a rumour that
Mr. Herne, the medium, was walking not far from the
Oaledonian-road station of the North London Railway,
that a feeling of sickness came over him as he passed
under the shadow of a large building, that he then be¬
came insensible, and suddenly found himself at Mr.
Guppy’s house, which was a mile or more from the spot
where he lost sensation. Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1,
Bernard-villas. Upper Norwood, inquired into this case,
and what he has to say about it is printed in another
column.
Mr. C. W. Pearce, of 6, Cambridge-road, Kilburn,
N.W.. published a statement in the Kilburn Times of
last Friday week, that on the previous Friday he called
at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s at half-past four
o’clock, to arrange with them for a series of seances at
Kilburn, in connection with the Kilburn Society of
Spiritualists. The three of them then went into the
dark room to ask John King what he thought of the
proposed arrangements. Mr. Pearce says :—
“ I then mentioned tbe arrangements we bad determined
upon, and told them the kind of minds they would meet at the
seances- John said the arrangements would do. I told Katie
I cared most that the friends they would meet should be con¬
vinced of the fact that spirits do commune with men ; I was
not at all anxious to prove that the Devil was not the chief
labourer in this direction; unprejudiced minds free from
bigotry would readily be convinced by their own intuitions
that that was not the case. Katie replied, | I’ll convince some
of them. I’ll make some of them sensible that we are spirits.’
iff?
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1871.
“ Just at this moment we heard a lump on the floor, and
found that Mr. Herne was not in the room, and his chair had
fallen on the floor as if it had been lifted up, and then dropped
down again. Coincident with the falling of the chair we
heard Mr. Heme’s voice—as if he were at the end of a long
gallery filled with dense fog—calling out to Mr. Williams,
‘ Ted, hold me 1’ Ted jumped, but he was gone. The room
was empty. A few moments of conversation upon this won¬
derful manifestation when—lump on the floor dropped Mr.
Herne, in his shirt sleeves, and panting for breath. After he
had recovered himself, we asked him where he had been. He
said up into the bedroom. John King and Katie had passed
him through the ceiling with as much ease as if it had not
been there. I said, 1 Where’s your coat ?’ * In the cupboard
up-stairs,’ said he, ‘ I remember taking it off directly they set
me down in the room, and hung it up. I don’t know why I
did it.’ His slippers were also gone. Whilst talking about
his coat, John said, ‘ Never you mind about his coat, I’ll get
that for you,’ and immediately he dropped the coat through
the ceiling, and it fell neatly folded up, flat upon the table.”
On the evening of June 3rd., 1871, a seance was held
in the rooms of Messrs. Herne and Williams, and at
the close of it the following document was drawn up
and signed:—
“ On Saturday evening, June 3rd, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-
street, High Holbom, London, W.C., a stance was held in the
rooms of Messrs. Herne and Williams, mediums. Before the
tea/nee began, the doors communicating with the passage out¬
side were locked. The proceedings began, at the request of
the mediums, with prayer. Then spirit lights, like small stars,
were seen moving about, after which a conversation between
the spirits John King and Katie King, was heard. John said,
4 Katie, you can’t do it.’ Katie replied, ‘ I will, I tell you I
will.’ John said, ‘1 tell you you can’t.’ She answered. ‘I
will.’ Mr. Harrison then said, * Can you bring Mrs. Guppy ? ’
There was no reply, but a member of the circle urged that the
attempt should not be made. Within three minutes after
Katie had said, ‘ I will,’ a single heavy sound was heard for an
instant on the centre of the table. Mr. Edwards put out his
hand and said, ‘ There is a dress here.’ A light was instantly
struck, and Mrs. Guppy was found standing motionless on the
centre of the table, trembling all over ; she had a pen and an
account-book in her hands. Her right hand, with the pen in it,
was over her eyes. She was spoken to by those present, but did
not seem to hear ; the light was then placed in another room,
and the door was closed for an instant; John King then said,
4 She’ll be all right presently.’ After the lapse of about four
minutes after her arrival, she moved for the first time, and
began to cry. The time of her arrival was ten minutes past
eight. Mrs. Edmiston, Mr. Edwards, and Mr. Harrison went
at once to one of the doors, and found it still locked; the other
door could not be opened during the stance, because the back
of the chair of one of the sitters was against it. There was
no cupboard, article of furniture, or anything else in the
rooms, in which it was possible for anybody to conceal them¬
selves, and, if there had been, we, the undersigned witnesses,
are all certain that by no natural means could Mrs. Guppy
have placed herself instantaneously on the centre of a table
round which we were all sitting shoulder to shoulder.
“ Mrs. Guppy said that the last thing she remembered before
she found herself on the table, was that she was sitting at home
at Highbury, talking to Miss Neyland, and entering some
household accounts in her book. The ink in the pen was wet
when she arrived in our midst; the last word of the writing
in the book was incomplete, and was wet and smeared. She
complained that she was not dressed in visiting costume, and
had no shoes on, as she had been sitting at the fire without
them. As she stated this to Mr. Morris, and Mr. and Mrs.
Edwards, a pair of slippers dropped on the floor from above,
one of them grazing Mr. Morris’s head ; this was after the
seance, and in the light. We all went into the dark room for
a few minutes afterwards, and four flower-pots with flowers in
them, which Mrs. Guppy declared to be from her home, were
placed on the table at once.
44 After tea a second seance was held. Within a minute or two
after the light was put out, there was a cry for a light, and
Mr. Heme was seen by four persons falling from above, on to
his chair. There were bundles of clothes belonging to Mr.
Guppy, Mrs. Guppy, and Miss Neyland on the table, and Mr.
Herne declared he had just seen Miss Neyland in Mrs. Guppy’s
house ; that she had pushed the clothes into his arms, and told
him to “ go to the devil.” The light was again put out, and
when it was struck once more, Mr. Williams was missing. He
was found in the next room, lying in an insensible state on
some clothes belonging to Mr. Guppy. He said on awaking
that he had been to Mr. Guppy’s house, and saw Miss Neyland,
who was sitting at a table, and seemed to be praying.
N. Hagger, 46, Moorgate-street.
Caroline Edmiston, Beckenham.
C. E. Edwards, Kilburn-square, Kilburn.
Henry Morris, Mount Trafford, Eccles, near
Manchester.
Elizabeth Guppy, 1, Morland Yillas, Highbury
Hill Park, N.
Ernest Edwards, Kilburn-square, Kilburn.
Henry Clifford Smith, 38, Ennis-road, Stroud-
green.
H. B. Husk, 26, Sandwich-street, W.C.
Charles E. Williams, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-
street, W.C.
F. Herne, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Wilmin Villa, Chaucer-
road, S.E.”
Mr. Morris is a Manchester merchant of high stand¬
ing, and his sincerity in bearing testimony to these
facts, is attested by the editor of the Echo, as will be
seen further on. Mr. Edwards is a B.A. of Cambridge
tTniversity; he is a scientific man, and a few weeks
ago he read a paper before the Society of Arts. Mrs.
Edmiston is the wife of Mr. Edmiston, principal of the
well-known India-rubber establishment at Charing
Cross. Mr. Harrison is a writer for scientific and other
newspapers.
The foregoing document was drawn up hurriedly, as
several of those present had to leave early, to catch
trains or to keep engagements, so we will now go
a little more into details. The seance was held in
a small room, size, 12'ft. by 10 ft. 4 in., and it con¬
tained no furniture but the table, and the chairs
occupied by the sitters. The table was of oval form,
the two diameters being 5 ft. and 4 ft. respec¬
tively. The sitters and table so nearly filled the room,
that there was no walking round three sides of the
room, without disturbing the rest of those present, and
asking them to shift their seats. The fourth side of the
room consisted of large folding doors, which were
closed, and which communicated with the drawing room.
The opening of the small door of the seance room would
have let in much light from the passage. There was no
stool or anything in the room but the chairs of the
sitters which would have afforded a footing to anybody
trying to jump on the table. There were about two feet
of space between the folding doors and the nearest sitter—
Mr. Herne. Mr. Williams, the other medium, sat oppo¬
site Mr. Heme, at the other end of the longest diameter
of the oval table; he was thus 44 sealed in ” so to speak,
at the further end of the room, by the table and the
sitters. At the time of the solitary heavy 44 thud ” upon
the table caused by the arrival of Mrs. Guppy, the mem¬
bers of the circle were sitting very quietly, Mr. Herne
was talking, and his hands were held by Mrs. Edmiston
on the one side, and Mr. Harrison on the other. When
a wax match was struck, Mrs. Guppy was seen standing
like a dark statue on the centre of the table, trembling
all over. The excitement, of course, was intense. The
folding doors were closed; two of the witnesses noted
the time, and three went to the door of the drawing
room, and found it locked. As Mrs. Guppy continued
to tremble in the same attitude, and not to hear the
words spoken to her, the candle which had been lit was
removed for an instant, and John Xing said,44 She’ll be
all right presently.” When she awoke she had tears in
her eyes, and was greatly agitated. In the course of
her statement about her removal from home, she said
she was sitting by the fire with Miss Heyland, entering
some things in her account book, and while writing a
word she suddenly became insensible. When she awoke
in a dark place, and heard voices round her, her first
impression was that she was dead; then it flashed upon
her that she had been carried to a dark circle, and she
was afraid that she might be among strangers; finally
she recognized the voice of one of those present, and
felt much relieved at once. She complained that she
had no shoes or bonnet to go home in, and was not
dressed for an evening visit; while she thus complained,
a pair of slippers (belonging to Mr. Herne we believe),
dropped on the head of one of the gentlemen to whom
she was talking; a minute or two later, a bunch of keys
dropped into her lap before the eyes of those around
her; this was in the light. At the short dark sittings
which followed, a bonnet was brought, and Mrs. Guppy
recognized it as one which she had given to Miss
Neyland a long time ago, Mrs. Guppy’s boots and some
articles of dress of hers were brought, also Mr. Guppy’s
overcoat, waistcoat, and boots; four geraniums in pots
about eight inches high, standing in their saucers (one
of the pots was upset, lying horizontally on the table) ;
there were also articles of dress belonging to Messrs.
Herne and Williams, brought from a bedroom upstairs.
Altogether the articles of dress brought would have
filled a clothes-basket of moderate size.
Once when a light was struck Mr. Herne was seen
by four persons with his feet above the level of the edge
of the table, his arms extended towards the ceiling,
and his whole body falling with the velocity almost
of a flash of light into his chair. He was moving in a
curve from near the top of the folding doors. He said that
he had seen Miss Neyland, who spoke to him as narrated
in the preceding document; also, that he saw her in the
billiard room of Mr. Guppy’s house, but the billiard
table had been removed from it, and elegant furniture
substituted; he described the furniture, and Mrs Guppy
said that some of the things he described had only been
bought and placed in the room that morning, also that
Mr. Guppy had removed the billiard table to another
part of the house.
Mr. Ernest Edwards suggested that if Mrs. Guppy
would grant permission, it would be as well for some of
the witnesses to return home with her, to hear at once
the statements of those at Mri Guppy’s house. Mrs.
Guppy strongly approved of the suggestion. Mr. and
Mrs. Edwards, Mr. Herne and Mr. Harrison, accordingly
went home with Mrs. Guppy in two cabs: the cabs kept
close to each other all the way, and all five persons
entered Mr. Guppy’s house together.
Miss Neyland opened the door. She was followed by
the whole party into the back parlour, no statement was
made to her, but she was asked 44 What had occurred ?”
She said that she had been down stairs with a news¬
paper on one side of the fire, while Mrs. Guppy
sat on the other side of the fire entering household
accounts in a book. The door of the room was shut.
They were talking to each other, and on looking up
from her paper after she had made some remark she
was startled at seeing that Mrs. Guppy was not there.
There was a kind of haze about the ceiling as is some¬
times the case after strong spiritual manifestations. She
looked through the downstairs rooms, and as she could
not find her, went and told Mr. Guppy who was playing
at billiards with Mr. Hudson, a photographer who lives
in the neighbourhood, and who had been helping Mr.
Guppy in some amateur photography. Mr. Guppy said
that44 No doubt the spirits had carried her off, but they
would be sure to take care of her.” Miss Neyland then
searched the rest of the house, and afterwards she, Mr.
Guppy, and Mr. Hudson, sat down to supper. Spirit
raps then came upon the supper table, and the spirits
said that they had taken Mrs. Guppy to Mr. Herne’s
seance. Mr. Guppy asked whether Mrs. Guppy was
quite safe? The spirits said 44 Yes,” so shortly after
supper he went to bed.
Miss Neyland was then asked 44 Had anything else
occurred ? ” 44 No.”—44 Had she seen Mr. Herne pre¬
viously that evening ? ” 44 No.”—44 Had she seen Mr.
Williams ? ” 44 No.”—44 Where had she been most of the
evening?” “She had spent much of her time in the
front room (once used as a billiard room) and had gone
to sleep there.,, 44 What time was it when Mrs. Guppy
was missed ? ” 44 She did not know; it might have been
about nine o’clock.” Mrs. Guppy here remarked that
44 The clock downstairs was half an hour' fast.” The
whole party then went downstairs into the room from
which Mrs. Guppy had been taken; her shoes were
seen on the carpet in front of the fire, near her chair,
and the clock in the room was half an hour fast.
Mr. Guppy has since informed us that Mrs. Guppy
came once or twice to him and Mr. Hudson in the course
of the evening, suggesting that they should come and
have supper; they replied that it was rather too early.
He did not know what time it was when they last saw
her.
We regret to state that Mrs. Guppy was weak andi
unwell for several days after the occurrence of this
manifestation of spirit power.
ANOTHER account of the seance.
One of the gentlemen present at the seance, wrote an
account of it from memory a few days afterwards,
which account was published in the Echo newspaper,
of Thursday, June 8th, 1871, as follows :—
To the Editor of the Echo.
44 Sir,—You seem to be incredulous as to spiritual manifes¬
tations. I will give you a few facts—make what you like of
them. I attended a 4 circle ’ held at the house of the media,
Messrs. Heme and Williams, last Saturday evening. I found
the company composed of three ladies and seven or eight gen¬
tlemen, including the media, a few of whom, like myself, had
never attended a professional seance before. The room we
entered was on the first floor, and was separated from a
smaller room at the back by folding doors, which were now,,
however, thrown open, so that we had every opportunity of
examining the inner room. The only articles of furniture
were a table, with a musical box upon it, and a few chairs.
There was a small cupboard, with two or three shelves in it,
which we saw open, and which contained nothing beyond one
or two miscellaneous articles. Upon our sitting round the
table, the folding-doors were closed and locked, as was also
the other door in the room, and I may say as we were sitting
before eight o’clock, and the only window in the room was.
darkened, neither of these doors could be opened without at
once being perceptible in the room by the admission of a ray
of light. The seance began by one of the media saying the
Lord’s Prayer, the company repeating it. The musical box,
which only played sacred music, was then wound up. Almost
immediately we saw lights, somewhat similar to those emitted
by glow-worms, floating all about the room. The musical box
rose into the air, and continued playing while hovering over
our heads and going first to one corner of the ceiling and then
to another. We then heard voices, said to be those of the
spirits of John King and Katie. John King’s voice was a very
deep one, while Katie’s was more like a whisper, but perfectly
distinct. If you could imagine a moth flitting about the room
on a summer evening, one moment striking the ceiling and
the next fluttering round your head, endowed with the faculty
of whispering to you in its eccentric flight, you would be able
to form a very good idea of Katie’s performance. When asked
if she would bring us something, she said, 4 Yes, yes.’ One’
of the visitors in a joking sort of way, remarked, 41 wish she
would bring Mrs. G-.’ Mrs. Cr. is the wife of the gentleman to
whom I had the letter of introduction—upon which another
said, 4 Good gracious, I hope not; she is one of the biggest
women in London.’ Katie’s voice at once said,41 will, I will,
I will,’ and John’s rough voice shouted out,4 You can’t do it,
Katie,’ but she appeared to chuckle and repeat, 41 will, I will.’
We were all laughing and joking at the absurdity of the idea
when John’s voice called out,4 Keep still, cant’t you V In an
instant somebody called out4 Good God ! there is something
on my head,’ simultaneously with a heavy bump on the table
and one or two screams. A match was instantly struck, and
there was Mrs. G. standing on the centre of the table with the
whole of us seated round the table, closely packed together, as
we sat at the commencement. John King’s voice shouted out,
4 Well, you are clever, Katie.’ Both doors were still locked.
Our attention was, however, directed to Mrs. G., who appeared
to be in a trance and perfectly motionless. Great fears were
entertained that the shocks would be injurious to her, sup¬
posing it to be really Mrs. G. and not some phantom in her
image, but John’s voice called out, 4 She will soon be all
right.’ She had one arm over her eyes, with a pen in her
hand, and an account book in her other hand, which was
hanging by her side. When she came round she seemed very
much affected and began to cry. She told us that the last
thing she could remember was that she was sitting at home,
about three miles away, making up her week’s accounts of
household expenditure, and that Miss N. was in the room with
her, reading the paper. The ink in the pen was wet, and the
last word she had written, or, rather, begun to write, for it
was one or two letters short of completion, was smeared and
scarcely dry. From the joking remark about bringing Mrs. G.
to the time that she was on table three minutes did not elapse.
The possibility of her being concealed in the room is as absurd
as the idea of her acting in collusion with the media. After
she had quite recovered she sat with us, and the lights were
extinguished. Heaps of flowers were strewn all over the
table. Leaves from a horse-chestnut tree, with moisture on
them as though just sprinkled by a shower of rain, and appar¬
ently just wrenched from the tree, were also brought in large
quantities. Five or six flower-pots, with geraniums in flower,
one of which was taken out of the pot and the mould thrown
all over the room, were among many other things brought
which would be too numerous to mention.
“After the seance was over three of us offered to escort Mrs.
June 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
G. home, so that inquiries might be made at her house before j
she would have time to say what had been done, although, as ;
I have before said, the idea of collusion seemed preposterous. !
These inquiries were answered in a way to convince us that
Mrs. G. was really sitting in the room with Miss N. at the
time that one of us wished her to be brought. Mr. G. also
bore testimony to the fact that Mrs. G. had been, shortly
before her disappearance, up to the billiard- room, where he
was playing a game with a visitor, who also spoke to the cir¬
cumstances. I find, on looking over what I have written, that
I have omitted to state that after calling upon Mr. G. in the
first instance, I called upon Mr. Burns, the publisher in
Southampton-row, and it was he (and not Mr. G.) who recom¬
mended me to see Messrs. Herne and Williams.
•'* I simply, then, lay before you this statement of facts as
witnessed by nine or ten ladies and gentlemen (not including
the media), who I am sure will willingly corroborate what I
have said, thinking it might interest your readers, and I leave
it to them to form their own deductions without comment or
suggestion from me.* Hy.”
Humours of the details of the above seance reached
Mr. Yarley, the electrician, and in a private note to us
on the subject, he suggests that such manifestations
should he well tested hy two circles sitting at the same
time several evenings in succession, and that if a case of
transportation occurs, the time shall he noted at both
circles with chronometers.
OTHEK CASES OF TBANSPORTATION OF THE BODY.
In the Spiritual Magazine, vol. 1866, p. 67, Mr.
Coleman gives the history of some very remarkable
manifestations witnessed through Mr. P. A., a young
man, an engineer, who was in the employment of a
first-class ship-building firm at Port Glasgow .
Among other extraordinary phenomena, including
spirit-voices, a dozen or more spirits speaking at the
same seance, Mr. P. A. says:—
“As you have already had some particulars of this mani¬
festation I need not do more at present than give you the
more salient features of the case. Of course, as I was uncon¬
scious, I can only give it as I received it from Mr. M- (one
of the firm of his employers),'and Miss.D , who were present
on this particular occasion.
“ We three were sitting at table, in the dark, and had been
getting manifestations partly physical, and partly intellectual,
when I was gradually lifted from beside Mr. M , till my feet
were level with the table top ; 1 then gently inclined to the
angle of say sixty degrees, my cloak falling down on Mr.
M ’s hands.
“ One of the female spirits then came rustling past Mr. M ,
and took my left hand; another spirit, purporting to be Dr.
Franklin, taking my right; then, being surrounded by twelve
spirits (to prevent, as they said, my magnetism (?) being dissi¬
pated), I took my departure, passing up to the ceiling through
the cornice into the next room. Now, it seems that after my
departure, some of the spirits told the two sisters that I was
not there, that I had been carried away, on which Mr. M 
requested permission to light the gas ; this was accorded, and
both he and the lady told me they searched the room
thoroughly for ten minutes, in the full blaze of gas-light, and
they were quite satisfied I was not in the room ; the door and
windows were fastened securely, as was also the fire-place; the
cupboards being locked they were opened and searched; in
short, they were satisfied of my positive absence from the
apartment. The only thing to be done then was to put out the
gas, sit down at the table, and wait my return . . It seemed to
me that I passed over Arrochar and Kilmun. The manifes¬
tations of a similar character which have occurred in Mr.
M "s presence, and they have been numerous, I purposely
avoid mentioning,” &c.
Upon receipt of the foregoing statement Mr. Coleman
made strict enquiry as to the genuineness of P. A.’s
other occasions, corroborated the fact that he had been
carried away from the room and brought back again in
the same mysterious manner, and under the same
conditions.
Mr. Coleman also obtained the following certificate
from P. A.’s employer:—
“ Having read the foregoing list of manifestations, as drawn
up by Mr. P. A., I have no hesitation in affixing my signature
as a testimony to their truth and accuracy.
Signed, E. M.’’
Mr. Coleman has tbe documents, but the principals
will not permit their names to be published.
In the life of Marie d’Agreda, Superior of the Con¬
vent of the Immaculate Conception at Agreda in Spain,
who died in 1665, which is written by M. Hello, it is
stated that whilst “ She was one day praying for the
savages in New Mexico, our Lord gave her to see them,
and bade her instruct them.” In one of her ecstacies
she found herself among the Indians and gave them
rosaries which she had in her room, and which could
not be found afterwards. She made five hundred visits.
Whether “ she was transported in the body she could
not tell.” But she managed to fulfil her mission, and
when the missionary, who was sent out to Mexico, met
the Indians, he found that the Indians were already
instructed, and as they said, by a woman who had
been among them frequently.
The statement was so surprising, that Father Alonso
de Benarides made a special visit to Spain, and was
sent by Father Bernadin, of Sienna, General of the
order, to Agreda, where he met Marie, who recognised
him as having seen him with other monks in America.
“ She mentioned the day, the hour, the place, where
she had seen them, and she spoke of Mexico like a
person who had long lived in it.” |
* It is due to our readers and to our correspondent to say that we know
“Hy” to he a Manchester merchant of high respectability. We should be
very sorry to guarantee the authenticity of his narrative, but we have no
right to question his disinterestedness or sincerity.—Editor of the Echo.
We have said that Mr. Coleman made some inquiries
about Mr. Herne having been carried by spirits to Mr.
Guppy’s house a few days ago. The following is an
article by Mr. Coleman on the subject:—
ME. COLEMAN ON THE CAEEIAGE OF THE HUMAN BODY FEOM ONE
PLACE TO ANOTHER BY SPIRITS.
With reference to the very strange event which
recently occurred to Mr. Herne, of his being “ caught
up and carried away,” I am prepared to answer that I
believe it, and feel as certain of its having occurred as
I can be of any other of the Spiritual facts which
stagger belief as they arise, and of which I have not
had personal evidence. I have been accustomed to
record in the Spiritual Magazine, for the last ten or
twelve years, marvellous incidents, many of which have
occurred in my own presence, and others which I have
taken upon testimony ; and in no one case have they
been controverted or disproved; whilst with the single
exception of Mr. Livermore’s extraordinary experiences
—the story of Estelle——they have been corroborated
by subsequent developments of similar character,
attested by too many witnesses to leave any reasonable I
doubt of their reality.
Light talkers and shallow thinkers presume that men
like myself are over-credulous in simply believing the
evidence of our senses; we however know that the
credulity of incredulity is a much graver error, as it
tends to impede the progress of all great truths. I
have said that I believe in this case of Mr. Herne;
and for these reasons: I attended one of the seances
given by him and Mr. Williams at their rooms, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, on the evening of May the 20th.
Before the company assembled I was in conversation
with Mr. Herne, and he told me that on the previous
day, about eleven o’clock in the morning, just after
leaving a friend’s house near the Caledonian-road,
Islington„he felt overcome as if by a fainting fit, and
on recovering his senses he found himself in Mr.
Guppy’s house, at Highbury-hill-park, the distance
being about a mile and a half.
On the following day I wrote to Mrs. Guppy to the
following effect:
“ .... I finished my day in London by joining at a seance,
for the first time, with Messrs. Herne and Williams, which is
the cause of my writing to you. Heme told me of his flight on
the previous day, and of his being deposited, like a bundle of
rags, in a state of unconsciousness, in one of your rooms; the
doors, he said, being closed at the time.
“ You know I have predicted that the spirits would some
day carry you away, and this incident with Herne led to my
asking them, after we had taken our seats at the table last
evening, if they could not return the compliment by bringing
you to visit Mr. Herne and those there and then assembled.
“ Presently there came, what appeared to be a preliminary
arrangement, a suitable evening dress for you to appear in—a
dress which I think I have seen you wear, black net, em¬
broidered with coloured silk; measuring, with a mantilla, as
I ran it roughly over, about seventeen or eighteen yards.
“ It is yours, I presume, because there was put into my
hands, at the same moment, a private letter addressed to you,
which I now return herewith, and assure you that not a line
has been read by me nor anyone else.
“ I should, however, like to know if there be anything in
the letter which bears, in any way, upon the subject or the
incidents of the evening, and in that event you will, perhaps,
let me read the letter, upon which, for the purposes of identi¬
fication, I have put my initials.
“ Mr. Guppy, I hope, will take the trouble, if you have not
the time, to tell me the exact facts of Mr. Herne’s mysterious
visit to your house ; whether there were any doors open by
which, in trance, he might have entered? or windows, through
which he might have been carried ?
“ A strict record of these very curious manifestations of
spirit power may be of great value hereafter. The spirits
brought, last evening, an ormolu table ornament, and an old
miniature; the latter, I know, belongs to Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory.—I remain, &c., B. Coleman.”
Mr. Guppy replied to this letter in the following
terms:
“ May 22,1871.
“ My Dear Sir,—I was on Friday morning on the basement
floor. Mrs. Guppy was in the breakfast-room adjoining, with
.the door open, and had spoken to me. Suddenly she screamed,
and said that something had tumbled down. I at once entered
the room, and there was Mr. Herne on the settee, looking
dazed, like a person half awake. When he got the use of his
faculties, he said he did not know how he had come, that he
was going somewhere else, and in the street felt himself giddy,
and knew no more. Our back-door was padlocked, our street-
door was shut as usual, and the windows were all closed. No
servant let him in. It certainly is not an ordinary mode of
making a morning call, although there are plenty of prece¬
dents in sacred and profane history of this sort of locomotion.
The embroidered dress belongs to Mrs. Guppy, and was no
doubt carried to the seance you attended by the same agency.
“ The letter was taken from a locked-up box in Mrs. Guppy’s
bed-room, and as it is an affectionate letter from a friend, I
enclose it for your private perusal.
“ As there is ample testimony that Mr. Home was carried
out of one window and in at another, and also testimony of
other persons having been carried by an unseen agency much
greater distances, I do not see how the probability of this event
can be contested.—Yours, &c., Samuel Guppy.
“ B. Coleman, Esq.”
After the receipt of this letter. I felt bound to treat
the case as a serious fact, and to satisfy my own mind
upon the subject, I went at once to Mr. Guppy’s house
to obtain further information.
The breakfast room floor is below the level of the
road, and the only window of the room, looking out on
a grass plot in front of the house, is, for safety, screwed
down and never opened. Mrs. Guppy, I was informed,
was standing with her face to the window looking down
at her needlework upon the table, talking at the same
time to Mr. Guppy, who was washing out some che¬
mical glasses in the adjoining room, six or eight yards
distant, when she was greatly alarmed by seeing what
appeared to be a dark bundle fall on the settee which is
under the window. Her screams brought Mr. Guppy
instantly to her side, and he seeing Mr. Herne, ad¬
dressed him in strong language, demanding to know
what he wanted, and why he was there ? This is the
simple story, and the evidence is • sufficient for me.
Why should I doubt it, after my recent experiences ?
I, and at least five hundred intelligent witnesses resi¬
dent in this metropolis, lenow for a certainty that
windows, doors, and stone walls are no harriers to spirit¬
ual forces. I have been covered with snow, white and
pure, which no human hand had touched, whilst sitting
in a room with the windows, doors, and fire-place
closed up. I have had put upon my knee a living eel,
and I have heard of other animals being brought into
rooms under similar conditions. The bringing of
flowers and fruits into closed-up rooms, and the carry¬
ing of heavy substances from one part of London
to another by unseen agencies, are spiritual mani¬
festations now of every-day occurrence. If this be so,
where is the limit to this, power ? Believing in one
series of such phenomena, I cannot discredit a well-
attested fact, such as the one in question, and I do not,
therefore, hesitate to say that I believe Mr. Herne was
“ caught up and carried away ” in the manner described.
Let me add that a very singular proof of this same
power was given to me on the day I went to make my
enquiries at Mr. Guppy’s house. At the moment of our
sitting down to an early tea—the sun shining brightly
into the room,—Dr. Dixon came in and joined us. In
the course of conversation, I asked him if he had had
any curious experiences lately? He replied that he
had been hut to one seance, about three weeks pre¬
viously, held at Southampton-row (four miles from
Highbury), with Herne and’Williams as mediums, when
his cap, which he always wears in a room, was taken
by the invisibles, and he had not seen it since. None
of us to whom he made this statement had been to that
seance.
Presently I felt something tapping me on the knee,
and putting my hand beneath the table the identical
cap was placed in it, and I restored it to Dr. Dixon.
This was one of the many instances I have had of this
nature which does mot admit the possibility of any trick
having been practised upon us.
Benjamin Coleman.
1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, S.E.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH THE
MEDIUMSHIP OF MESSRS. HERNE AND WILLIAMS.
In the brief history of the development of the mediumship
of Messrs. Herne and Williams, printed in these pages last
month, little or no description was given of the manifestations
which take place in their presence. Since September last,
many of the most remarkable of the manifestations which have
been witnessed in their presence have been published in the
Medium newspaper; the following are abridgments of the
statements printed in the Medium. The date at the beginning
of each paragraph is the date of the Medium from which the
abridgment is made, so that those who wish for more details,
will know where to find them.
TABLE LEVITATIONS.—SPIRIT IDENTITY.
September l&th, 1870.—Dr. J. Dixon, of 8, Great Ormond-
street, W.C., states that at a seance held by six ladies and
gentlemen, at the residence of Mrs. C. Berry, near the Marble-
arch, Mr. Herne was the medium. Dr. Dixon says—“ In
answer to an observation of Mr. Henry, who was next me, and
who thought that the movements did not denote intelligence,
I said that the table was sometimes moved in definite ways,
and I related to him what I once witnessed, when, for the satis¬
faction of a mathematical cousin of mine, I asked that the
table might be moved in some way that was impossible to those
sitting round it. On that occasion the table was raised, or, as
a great scientific authority* once said, seemed to be raised, all-
our hands being flat upon its surface, and was waved circularly,
so that each of its three feet was brought in succession to the
floor, and so it went on, alternately depressing and raising its
feet with increasing rapidity, until my mathematical relative
confessed that that was done with the table which could not
be done by any or all at the table with any amount of practice.
As I described the movement to Mr. Henry in words, the table
under our hands began the movement, and as I moved my
hand in illustration of the progressive horizontal undulatidg
motion, the table before us adopted it, and kept time to my
hand, and continued it until we were all satisfied. The table
was then moved about and raised in any direction that our
new inquiring friend asked for.” Dr. Dixon says that Mr.
Heme was afterwards entranced; several spirits spoke through
his lips, and gave proofs of identity; he described the personal
appearance Of spirits about the circle, giving the names of
some, and notably of one attached to Mr. Henry, who had
never been at a seance before.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.—THE PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER’.
—LEVITATION OF FURNITURE.
September 30th:—Dr. Dixon states that at a dark seance
held at his own house, 8, Great Ormond-street, a spirit
“ announced the presence of the spirit of a [my ? ] sister-in-law
who departed this life before Mr. Heme came into it, and gave
her name. The medium then described a spirit which he saw
and his description was a correct personal one of her. The
spirit finally uttered some words in the direct voice to my wife
and her sister, which completed a most satisfactory series of
tests of identity.” Mrs. Alice Ellis, of 29, Devonshire-street
Queen’s-square, W.C., describes another stance held in Mrs.
* Sir David Brewster
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1871.
Berry’s house, at which she, Mr. Ellis, Mrs. Mary Marshall,
Mrs. Guppy, Mrs. Berry, and Mr. Herne, were present. She
says, “ We took our seats at the table, which was raised from
the floor before any hands were placed upon it. In a moment
loud raps and a voice announced the presence of spirit friends.
The table was rocked so violently that fears were entertained
lest it should be broken, but it was lifted higher and higher
until it touched the ceiling, then gently descended into the
circle .... Mr. Herne was stripped of coat and waistcoat,
his hands being held by those right and left*. When a light
was obtained the coat was found fastened over Mrs. Berry’s
head by means of the sleeves being tied loosely under her chm;
the waistcoat similarly adorned Mrs. Guppy. The room was
again darkened, and three spirit voices entered into conversa¬
tion with us. Mr. Ellis recognised one of the voices as belong¬
ing to an old school friend, long since passed away, with
whom he has communicated by means of raps at Mrs. Berry’s
stances. At the same moment two other voices were answering
questions or communicating intelligence in other parts of the
room. A delicious warbling in imitation of a bird, was next
given, and, by request, was repeated above each person,
separately at first, then simultaneously round the table form¬
ing a circle of melody; after that, the flapping of wings was
distinctly audible. A small work-table was brought from the
adjoining room and carried over our heads on to the sofa, Mrs.
Guppy’s fan was taken from her and wafted about by the
spirits; one of the gentlemen, putting out his hand to take it,
received a blow on the face as it fluttered past him. The seance
closed with violent physical manifestations, the room being
shaken, and the table lifted repeatedly from the floor.” The
presence of several well known media at this seance, accounts
for the powerful nature of the manifestations.
A BIBLE CAEEIED BY SPIBITS.
December 2nd.—Mr. J. Adcock describes a dark seance held
at the house of Mr. C. P. B. Alsop, 2, Great Turnstile, High
Holbom, W.C. Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium. While
the hands of all those present were joined, a ticking sound was
heard to proceed from the sideboard, from which a Bible was
carried two or three yards through the air and thrown upon
the table. One gentleman was so strongly impressed as to say
“ This is glorious,” The raps then told those present to look
at Jeremiah ix. 24, and the following is the passage thus
denoted—“ But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he
understandeth and knoweth Me, that I am the Lord, which
exercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness in the
earth: for in these things I delight, saith the Lord.”
SPIRIT LIGHTS.—ANOTHER BIBLE CARRIED. SEEING MEDIUMSHIP.
 TESTIMONY OE A BAPTIST MINISTER.
December 9th:—Mr. Alsop, of 2, Great Turnstile, Holbom,
writes of another dark seance at his house, Mr. Williams being
the medium :—“ Spirit lights, like bright stars, were seen in
different parts of the room. We sang several hymns; the
spirits seemed to enjoy them very much, joining into time and
tune by raps on the table; and whilst we were singing “ How
sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer’s ears,” my large
pulpit Bible, weighing 61b. 5oz., was brought by the spirits
off the harmonium, and placed on the centre of the table
around which we sat, I was so overjoyed at this that I could
not refrain from shouting aloud “ Bless the Lord, O my soul,
and all that is within me bless His holy name! ” Tears of joy
coursed down my cheeks with gratitude to my heavenly
Father for such a glorious manifestation of his love—indeed,
we were all so overjoyed, we scarcely knew how to contain our¬
selves, and the dear spirit friends joined in our praises by con¬
tinued loud raps. A light was now brought in, and sure
enough it was my large Bible dropped on the table. The
lights were again put out, and a beautiful breeze came over.
the table. Then the spirit hands pushed the Bible right
against me, as much as to say, I There is the book you love
so much; go tell to the world what you know and what you
have experienced of some of the truths it contains ’ . . . . My
daughter Harriet at one time was [to herself] completely en¬
veloped in lightf; she could distinctly see the beads round her
neck, her dress, and her hands. She took her pockethandker-
chief and said, ‘ I can see it as plainly as though the moon
were shining on me.’ The breeze came again ; the paper on
the table was then shaken violently, and the pencil was thrown
down; raps were given to close the meeting, and when a light
was procured, direct spirit-writing was seen on the table as
follows, ‘ Time.—J. A.’ I am sorry to say that I with others,
used to think the Spiritualists all a parcel of madmen, but I
am now compelled, not by argument, but by facts—to sub¬
scribe myself a Spiritualist—Christopher Pierpoint Brook
Alsop, formerly pastor over the congregation worshipping at
Bethel Baptist Chapel, Old Ford, Bow, and also pastor of
Salem Chapel, Old Ford. When I was a 'Baptist minister I
was not ashamed of my belief or profession, and now that I am
a believer in spirit-manifestations, I am not ashamed to own
it. Yours faithfully, C. P. B. Alsop.”
LEVITATION OE THE HUMAN BODY.—SPIRIT IDENTITY.
December IQth:—Mrs. Berry states that at a stance in her
house, her niece Miss Berry was floated in the air, and placed
in a chair which the spirits had previously placed upon the
table. Mr. Alsop in describing a stance at his house, says :—
“ My daughter Harriet felt a little nervous, so she got up to
leave the room, and from the light which came in at the door
as she was going out, her vacant chair was seen to rise up
three times and alter its position, as though some one was
moving it to sit at the table. Mr. Adcock moved his chair
back from the table when he retired to the sofa, and
immediately a spirit friend took hold of his chair, drew it close
up to my wife, and sat down by her side .... The question
was asked who it was that sat by my wife, and raps gave out,
‘ Nicholas Jarvis Bonnick.’ This spirit friend spoke through
Mr. Morse at the Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton-row,
on September the 20th. He gave his name and address, and
his age when he died. I made inquiries about it, and found it
exactly as Mr. Morse had described when entranced. I was
acquainted with Mr. Bonnick in earth-life, and I am as confi¬
dent as I am of my own existence that spirit-friends do come
back and communicate with us.”
THE ABODE OF “ JOHN KING.’’—A LOCK OF HAIR BROUGHT FROM
THE GRAVE BY SPIRITS. SPIRIT-HANDS.—MOVEMENTS OF
SOLID OBJECTS WITHOUT HUMAN CONTACT.
January 6th, 1871:—At a seance to which the public were
admitted on payment, at Mr. Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row,
High Holbom, W. C., the following conversation is published
* This manifestation was common enough with the Davenports, and took
place under test conditions, notwithstanding all the untruths printed about
them in the newspapers,
f She was clairvoyant for the time being.—Ed.
as having taken place between an inquirer present, and the
spirit John King:—
Q.—“John, tell me, are you in purgatory or hell?
A.—“ Neither.”
Q.—“ Where then ? ”
A.—“ In this room.”
The questioner was silent a little, while John answered
another; he then shifted his ground, thus:—
Q.—“ What are you?—Satan? ”
A.—“ Sin is Satan, and there is no other.”
Q.—“ Are you in heaven ? ”
A.—“ If I were, I should not be here.”
Again John addressed some one else, and again his questioner
returned to the charge :—
Q,—“ You came not from purgatory, nor from hell, nor from heaven—
where then?”
A.—Spirits who come to earth are from the spheres about it. We re¬
turn to earth from thence to work off our sins; this furthers our progress
to heaven. When in heaven, we shall remain there.”
January 21th:—This number of The Medium contains the
following communication from Mr. Alsop:—“I am glad to say
that our stances continue to increase in interest. Our spirit-
friends make themselves very familiar with us. They shake
hands with us, stroke us, pat us, and one night last week one
of the spirits put its arms right around my shoulders, squeezing
me in token of love. They bring out watches off the piano or
harmonium, or anywhere we may place them, and if we request
them they will put them around our necks; they raise the
table in mid-air and take it out of the circle; the table is made
to dance about the room without a hand upon it. Walking-
sticks, umbrellas, and other things are made to walk all about
the room. The spirits strike different notes on the piano, and
join in our singing with us at times ; they talk to us with great
freedom all the evening, and nearly at all our sittings we have
direct spirit-writing. My wife and daughter see spirits, and
other beautiful things, such as the names of our spirit-friends
in letters of gold and silver, and a good deal more than your
space would allow me to write about. On the 20th, my family,
servant, and Mr. Williams only, had a sitting, and many
interesting things took place. The spirit-voices were most
beautifully developed, entering into conversation with freedom
all the evening; but what seemed most remarkable to me was
the following:—Whilst we were singing, my wife felt a very
powerful influence come upon her, which made her lift up her
soul in prayer to God, and whilst raising her hand in the atti¬
tude of devotion, her hand touched something like a spirit-
hand ; she then felt something being drawn across her fingers,
which made her say, ‘ Oh, they are drawing some cotton over
my hand ! ’ and whilst she was holding out her hand, feeling,
as she thought, for the cotton, she had something put in her
hand, or, more correctly speaking, it was put between her
thumb and finger; whilst she was trying to take hold of this
supposed cotton, it turned out to be a lock of hair. 'We never
were more astonished in our lives. I then asked the spirits
whose hair it was, and we were answered by raps that it
belonged to my friend Bonnick, who told us most distinctly
twice over that he had fetched it from his grave. He after¬
wards told me that he was buried at Nunhead Cemetery, * a
little towards the right.’ On asking a third time if he really
had brought it from his grave, he said, ‘ Yes ; show it to Mary
Ann,’ alluding to his daughter. I wish to say I have been up
to his daughter’s, and shown her the hair, that her father
brought and put in my wife’s hand; it corresponds exactly
with some of her father’s hair which Miss Bonnick had by her.
With tears in her eyes, she exclaimed, pressing this precious
token of a father’s love to her lips, ‘ Oh yes, it is exactly like
my father’s hair; here is confirmation after confirmation.’ I
wish to say that I had not the slightest idea where he was
buried; but when I told Miss Bonnick that her father had
told me that he was buried as stated above, she said, ‘ Oh
yes, dear sir, it is all true, and I am much obliged to you
for your kindness in bringing me such information as you
have.’ ”
The same journal also contains the following letter from Mr.
J. Adcock:—“ Sir,—While sitting at Mr. Alsop’s circle I have
been repeatedly touched by spirit-hands in a most convincing
and unmistakeable manner. One evening, while speaking to
the spirit James Achanna about phrenology, my head became
completely enveloped in a mist, and was then tightly grasped
on the top by a large hand. On another occasion, not feeling
very well, I requested that the spirits would give me a few
‘ passes,’ and directly after I both heard and felt a large hand
brushing me down the back. I mentally said, if it were James
Achanna would he touch me on the head ? and immediately a
large hand patted me on my head three times.
“ The other evening, as I was sitting next Mr. Williams, he
suddenly started up from the trance-sleep, exclaiming that
something was pressing heavily on his head; on reaching out
my hand I felt a large, cold hand, solid and fleshlike to the
touch, resting on his head. It soon melted under the pressure
of my hand, but while it was there I had opportunity to feel
even the finger-nails. When this occurred I was sitting on Mr.
Williams’s left, and during the time the hand was resting on
his head his left hand had hold of my arm, and his right hand
I could feel on the table; the gentleman who was on his right
was sitting some distance off, engaged in conversation with the
rest.
“ Several interesting manifestations of spirit-power have
taken place while I have been staying at Mr. "V^illiams’s house.
Occasionally I have slept with him, and we have often been
awakened in the middle of the night by knocking on the wall
and under the bed. One evening he expressed a desire that his
pocket Bible, which was on the mantelpiece, might be brought
to him. Soon after we were in bed he became unconscious.
The room was quite dark, yet I could see starlike lights over
the mantelpiece. I then heard a rustling sound in the air as
if a bird were flying about, and something fell suddenly on the
bed. I put out my hand and found the Bible lying on Mr.
Williams’s chest, which I had distinctly seen on the mantel¬
shelf before getting into bed. I awoke him, and while relating
what had occurred, confirmatory raps were given on the wall
and under the bed.
“One’Sunday evening, after we had retired to rest, the
spirits commenced rapping on the wall at the further end of
the room with Mr. Williams’s cane, until at last it fell on the
floor. They then, at our request, caused it to walk audibly
across the room, struck it;forcibly three times against the
ceiling, and eventually placed it in Mr. Williams’s hand. I
have had my necktie and the stud in my shirt collar brought
across the room to me in a similar manner, and under circum¬
stances where deception has been quite out of the question'.—
Yours, &c., J. Adcock.
“P.S.—The spirit James Achanna states that he was Lord of
Glammis and Master of the King’s Household in the time of
James II. It would be interesting if some historical reader
could corroborate this.”
MOVEMENTS OF SOLID OBJECTS.—RESURRECTION.
February 19th:—Mr. Fabyan Daw, of 2, Portman-chambers,.
Portman-square, W., attended a seance, at Mr. Alsop’s house.
He requested that his. ring might be taken off his finger, and
put on the finger of some other friend present. This was done;
It was put on the finger of Mrs. Alsop, apparently with great
care and tenderness.
February 21th:—Mr. S. Chinnery, of 10, Hayter-roadr
Brixton-rise, says:—“ On Friday last, a few believers in spiritual
manifestations met at the house of a friend in town, and Mr.
Williams kindly attended as medium, accompanied by his
friend Mr. Alsop. I was close to Mr. Williams during the first;
half of the sitting, and can testify to certain indications that
he was in a perfect state of quiescence and half somnolent.
Yery little of the ordinary preliminary table movements took
place. After a long silence, noise was heard, and from the
mantelpiece, at the back of my friend and his wife, heavy
candelabra had been transposed to the table in the centre. So
silently was this effected that it could not be guessed what had
been moved. It will be well to remark here that the object
was not moved from a position near the medium, but from a
point at the rear of our host, far removed from Mr. Williams.
And again, to objectors, for dark sittings are open to fraud, it
is as well herein to plead how subtly and surely the object was
transferred past the group without touching anyone. Although
dark to us, apparently it was all light to the operating influence,.
After singing several inspiring hymns, we heard a distinct
voice, which did not belong to any earthly member of our com¬
pany, composed of relations and friends, too well known to
each other to admit of any doubt, whilst the medium still re¬
mained close to me, occasionally during a manifestation
breathing a heavy sigh, and giving me other signs of a per¬
fectly quiet position. The voice, feebly at first, but in a very
loud tone after, gave his name and commented upon the sing¬
ing. It was very remarkable to notice how this singing and a
little discursive conversation seemed to give force. It was
alleged by the influence that forced breathing on the part of
the members of the circle, as also the general electrical (?)
atmospheres around, tended to enable the spirits to incarnate
themselves. They declared that to speak they created such
parts of the human frame as were necessary to respiration and
articulation, and no more, although they could do more if they
liked.”
Early in February, Mr. J. Adcock, the writer of the letter just
quoted, passed from earth-hfe. Since then he has frequently
communicated through.the mediumship of his friend, Mr..
Williams, and those who knew Joseph Adcock before he passed
away, say that his voice is the same as it used to be, when he
communicates at circles. A message purporting to come from
him was given through the writing mediumship of Mr. Burns’s
sister, while she was reading a book.
A large serviette ring was carried from Mrs. Berry’s house
at Hyde-park to Mrs. Guppy’s house at Holloway, in a very
short time by the spirits.
THE HUMAN BODY AND SOLID OBJECTS FLOATED IN THE AIR.—
HOW JOHN KING FIRST SPOKE THROUGH MR. WILLIAMS’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
4 March 3rd:—Mr. Alsop writes to the Editor of the Medium
—“ I write to inform you that our seances still increase in
interest, and in the development of mental and physical
phenomena. When prayer is offered, our spirit-friends respond
through the tube with a loud ‘Amen.’ They are all very fond
of music, for they play on the piano, the harmonium, the
accordion, and the tambourine. They have lifted Mr. Williams
in his chair, and placed him on the table around which we sat,
and afterwards carried him from the table and placed him on
a chair near the window, Mr. Williams being apparently some¬
what startled and alarmed at this rather novel process of loco¬
motion. Since I last wrote to you, our spirit-friends have
brought us a fine specimen of the 1 forbidden fruit,’ quite fresh,
as if it had just been plucked. The same night on which this
occurred, they also brought us a ring with five stones in it, and
placed it on my daughter’s finger. They have also brought us
a beautiful tulip in full bloom, apparently just pulled up by
the roots, and with the fresh soil still attached to it. They
have also brought us a very pretty coronet of everlasting
flowers, and placed it on my daughter Harriet’s head, these
things not being in the house, so that the spirits must have
brought them from a distance.
“ On Tuesday night last we sat as usual, but for some time
could get neither rap nor voice, the spirits Achanna and
Bonnick absenting themselves, but from what cause we could
not tell. After a time, however, we were surprised by hearing
one of the tubes torn up, and the pieces thrown at us; we also
felt some strange touches, which made us say, ‘ That is not
James Achanna,’ when we were startled by a rough voice ex¬
claiming, ‘Of course it is not.’ I then said, ‘Who is this
strange spirit ? ’ when a gruff voice rephed, ‘ What is that to
you? ’ I said, ‘ We should like to know your name,’ to which
the reply was, ‘ Of course you would.’ I then said, ‘ Kind
spirit, although you are a stranger to us, we are glad you are
come, and I am sure you will do none of us any harm.’ The
voice replied, ‘ Of course I won’t.’ I then said, • Do tell us
your name ! ’ when the reply, in a loud and clear voice, was—
‘ Jack King; ’ to which I replied, ‘ What brought you here,
John? I thought you ought to be with Mr. Herne? ’ And on
my further inquiry why he came amongst us, the reply was,
‘ To get good, of course.’ My answer was, ‘ I am glad of that,
and trust that you have also come to do us good; ’ to which
the voice responded, ‘ I have come to get good and to do good.’
After some further colloquy of this kind, John promised to
come again on Thursday night, although I informed him it
would be a meeting opened and concluded with prayer.
“We accordingly met again on Thursday evening, when the
following manifestations took place. The room being darkened,
the spirits brought a towel from the bedroom, the doors being
closed, and having formed it into a turban, they placed it upon
Mr. Jackson’s head, and forbade its removal either by himself
or any of the company, and he accordingly wore it till towards
the close of the stance, when it was unwound and lifted from
his head by the same mysterious agency which had placed it
there more than two hours previously. After the turban had
been placed on Mr. Jackson’s head—the room being still
darkened—a plate of oranges was brought from the piano, and
placed on the table for the use of the company. Then a
musical box was also placed by unseen hands on the table, to¬
gether with a flower-pot containing the tulip brought to us on
a previous occasion, the latter being placed in the tambourine,
in which it was handed round, passing from one to another of
the sitters at the table. Mr. Herne, whose presence on this
occasion was unexpected, and in a sense accidental, was twice
lifted up in his chair and placed on the table, and once the
spirits raised him to the ceiling, which is twelve feet from the
floor, and bumped his head against it, so that the sound was
heard by the whole company—while the medium himself felt
June 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
the effects of this rude contact rather painfully. On bringing
in a light, Mr. Herne was found sitting in his chair on the table,
looking very pale, and obviously somewhat startled by the cir¬
cumstances of his aerial trip. After this a spirit-voice said,
‘ Sing, Alsop,’ and while we were singing, spirit-hands touched
us and spirit-forms were seen—beautiful lights at the same
time dancing up and down over the table and circling over our
heads, like a pyrotechnic- display in miniature. After this our
spirit-friends entertained us with a performance on the musical
instruments. The accordion was taken up in mid-air and
floated round the room over our heads for fully ten minutes,
the keys being rapidly manipulated, so that all the notes—
from the deep bass upwards—were distinctly heard. The
sound as of church bells was then heard from the piano—the
entire company sitting unmoved at the table. Then the har¬
monium gave forth its deeper notes, whilst the tambourine was
beat as an accompaniment, apparently by spirit-hands—cer¬
tainly not by any of the company. It may not, perhaps, be
superfluous to say that during this spiritual concert, the hands
of Mr. Herne and Mr. Williams were locked in each other, and
then grasped by those of Mr. John Bonnick, of Old Ford, who
came to our seance for the first time, that he might investigate
the subject ior himself. This musical manifestation was
repeated at intervals, so as to occupy, with the intervening
periods of rest, about three-quarters of an hour. Neither was
the concert solely instrumental, as our spirit-friends also
favoured us with a manifestation of their vocal powers—James
Achanna singing through the tube ‘ Should auld acquaintance
be forgot; ’ Nicholas Bonnick, Helen Bentley, and John King
being also distinctly audible. Perhaps it should be remarked
that on this occasion the four spirits just named sang by them¬
selves, without any assistance from the company, who were but
too glad to sit and silently listen to the harmonious voices of
their mysterious friends. At a later period of the evening,
however, when so requested, they joined with the company.
John King also entered freely into conversation, through the
tube, on various religious subjects, saying to Mr. Whitby, who
had expressed some fear of meeting him, in consequence of his
(John King’s) undeveloped condition—‘ I love God as well as
any of you, and wish to do all the good I can, but some people
will only believe by rough handling, and that was the case with
you,’ thus solving the rather unpleasant fact that when the
oranges were placed on the table Mr. Whitby was struck by
one of them rather forcibly on the eye. The spirit of Joseph
Adcock, recently deceased, then came, and saluted the various
members of my family by name, saying, ‘ God bless you all—I
am so happy! ’ This was spoken through the tube in a distinct
but faint and tremulous voice, like that which characterised
him when under spiritual influence in life. He then gave the
sound as of a parting kiss, through the tube, to each member
of my family, and while I offered prayer, spirit-hands patted
me on the head as in confirmation, and at the end of each
sentence James Achanna joined in with a loud and fervent
‘Amen,’ followed by all the other spirits.
“ During the course of the evening a remarkable test was
volunteered by John King. He said, speaking through the
tube, ‘ Tell Miss Mary (Mr. Burns’s sister) I saw her writing on
one of her curl-papers, under spirit dictation. She was not
attending to what she was about, for the medium was reading
a book during the time she was thus engaged. Tell her this,
and she will confirm what I say.’ ”
“ [This seems to be a good test, as the message was indeed
written on the curl-paper that lay on the table, and the
medium was reading at the same time.—En. M.] ”
“We were also, at this most remarkable sitting, favoured
with a piece of direct spirit-writing, this being 1st Cor. c. xv.,
v. 44—not the text, but only the heading where to find it.
After this very appropriate quotation, our spirit-friends all
joined in bidding us good night, and with their usual benedic¬
tion—‘ God bless you ! ’—departed.—Tours faithfully,
“ C. P. B. Alsop.
“ 13, Lamb’s Conduit-street, February 25, 1871.”
“ Having enjoyed the privilege of being present at Mr.
Alsop’s stance on Thursday evening, I cheerfully subscribe my
testimony to the truth of the foregoing statemefit, simply pre¬
mising that the ‘ manifestations ’ took place in a darkened
room, and that, although lights were distinctly perceptible, I
saw no spirit-forms. It is perhaps, however, only fair to add
that at this stance, and more especially the one held at Mrs.
Berry’s, my hands were touched by other hands, smaller in
size, and, without offence let me say, finer in quality than
those of anyone in the company.
“ February 28, 1871. J. W. Jackson.” *
At a seance held at Mrs. Berry’s house “Mr. Herne was
floated in the air, his voice being heard near the ceiling, while
his feet were felt by several persons in the room, Mrs. Guppy,
who sat next to him, being struck on the head by his boots as
he sank into the chair. In a few minutes he recommenced
ascending, and as Mrs. Guppy on this occasion determined, if
possible, to prevent it, she held his arm, but the only result
was that she ascended with him, and both floated, together
with the chairs on which they sat. Bather unfortunately, at
this moment the door was unexpectedly opened, and Mr.
Herne fell to the ground, injuring his shoulder, Mrs. Guppy
alighting with considerable noise on the table, where, on the
production of a light, she was found comfortably seated though
considerably alarmed. One of the circle now left, when Mr.
Herne floated two feet from the ground in the light, and Miss
Neyland was several times lifted up more than a foot, together
with the chair on which she sat, a lighted candle being in the
fireplace, on the same side of the room as that on which she
was, so that the phenomenon was distinctly visible to all the
company assembled.”
The following were the witnesses of these manifestations:—
“ Mrs. 0. Berry, Mrs. E. Guppy, Mrs. M. Oliver, Mrs. C.
Ellis, Miss Neyland, Miss E. Berry, Mr. Edward Ellis,
Mr. Charles Neyland, Mr. J. W. Jackson, F.A.S.L., and Mr.
F. Herne.”
And so we might go on quoting further manifestations
which took place at the residences of Mr. Alsop, Mrs. Berry,
Mr. Bums, and Mrs. Guppy, as printed in The Medium; but
the foregoing are a very fair sample.of the general character of
the manifestations. In addition to the witnesses already men¬
tioned, we may give the names of Mr. E. T. Bennett (Betch-
worth), Mr. Joseph Clift (Dorking), Mr. W. W. Clark (Dorking),
Mr. G. Wiehel (22, Bed Lion-street, W.C.): and Mr. Arthur
Whitby (16, Ellesmere-road, Old Ford).
A SPIRIT HEAT).
Mr. Harrison, of Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, says “About
a month ago I was at a dark seance at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street;
many visitors were present, eighteen or nineteen, perhaps.
Mr. Herne sat on my left, and I had hold of his hand and
* Fellow of the Anthropological Society, and author of several books on
anthropological and psychological suljects.
arm. A dignitary of the church sat on my right. A musical
box, weighing about ten pounds, had been flying about from
end to end of the room, like a bat, playing tunes all the time,
and bending down in its flight now and then, so as to touch
each of us gently in turn on the top of the head. John King
and Katie were very busy talking, spirit bands were busy
pulling rings off the fingers of some of the visitors, and push¬
ing them on the fingers of others, when three of the sitters, at
different parts of the room, said that a head of hair had been
gently pressed against their faces, in quick succession. Katie
King is said to have done this frequently of late. I said—
| Katie, I have often felt spirit hands, but not a spirit head.
I will hold my hand steadily here, and if you can let me feel
your face, I promise you not to grasp it.’ (Spirits seem to
materialise their hands and heads by clothing them with
matter derived from the organism of the medium, and when
novices grasp spirit hands in the futile attempt to retain
them, as they often do, the act often undoes what it cost the
spirit some little time and work to do.) My left hand held
Mr. Herne; the bent elbow of my right arm rested on the
table before me as far out as I could reach, the hand being
held vertically upwards. The edge of my right hand was thus
opposite my face, and the palm of it faced in the direction of
the long length of table stretching away to my left. The in¬
stant I made the request already mentioned, a head of hair
pressed gently against the palm of my hand. It went away,
and the eyebrows, eyelashes, and part of a face pressed against
my hands. These went away, and something nipped the tips
of my fingers; Katie had hold of my fingers in her mouth;
the lips were warm, and the tongue warm and wet; my fingers
were held in this way for fully half a minute. Afterwards the
tip of the tongue alone touched the palm of my hand. All
these things I minutely described to the whole company while
they were taking place. John King put in a few remarks
now and then, while it was going on ; he was down at the
further end of the table, in the direction which my hand
faced. As regards the imposture theory, any body which
belonged to that head must either have passed through the
solid wood of the table, or been stretched out horizontally
for three or four minutes, along the top of a table sur¬
rounded by people who had their hands on it, many of the
said people being persons who did not believe in spiritual
manifestations at all. The owner of the head could see to
perfection in the dark, and none of the members of the circle
could rise from their seats without their neighbours knowing
it.-
“ I have been present, often in broad daylight, with Messrs.
Herne and Williams, when solid objects, such as books and
flowers, have fallen on us from above, where nothing but the
whitewashed ceiling was to be seen. Last Saturday morning
I was standing very close to a bare part of the wall of the
room talking to them, when a Bible and book of poetry shot over
the top of my head towards them ; I turned round sharply;
there was nothing but the flat wall close behind me.
“ At the house Mr. Edmiston at Beckenham, and else¬
where, I have had quiet talks with John King, such as cannot
be had at a large circle. He says in effect that his work in
England will break down much of the materialism of the day,
and help to abolish the theory of eternal punishment. He
says that the conditions of spirit life are so unlike our own,
that it would be a hopeless task for him to attempt to explain
them; that the brains of men are not yet able to take in the
ideas which the spirits wish to give. He says that to some
extent there is a concerted plan of action among the spirits
now producing manifestations in different parts of the world ;
they try to agree among themselves as well as they can, while
carrying on the work. He says that at dark circles the spirits
can often materialise their whole bodies, but usually they do
not take the trouble to form more than the hands, or the
head.”
SPIRITUALISM AT THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL
INSTITUTE.
THE EEV. CANON CALLAWAY ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
On Monday evening, May 15tli, at the ordinary
fortnightly meeting of the Anthropological Institute,
Mr. Harris presided, and a paper by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M.D., author of Traditions of the Zulus
(Trubner & Co., 1867), was read. Dr. Callaway is the
Natal corresponding member of the Anthropological
Institute, and the following is the introduction to his
paper on “ Dreams, Presentiments, Divinations, and
Analogous Phenomena, among the natives of Natal:”—
“ There are certain extraordinary mental phenomena which
have occurred at all times and in every stage of human culture
and condition of society; in which all have more or less
believed, but about which there have been the most diverse
opinions. Somehavebeen disposed to treat all such phenomena
as delusions, or as something bordering on insanity. Many have
sneered at them, and tried to laugh them down. Some have
ascribed them to imposture, and have refused to believe in
them at all, whilst others have most devoutly believed in them,
and supposed them to be occasioned by visitations from the
spirit world. The witch has been supposed to have commu¬
nion with the devil, and to have obtained from him in barter
for her soul some worthless power of doing evil for the mere
sake of doing it, notwithstanding the utter impossibility of
understanding the value of such a bargain to either of the
contracting parties. And the diviner has been supposed to
be indebted for his knowledge to good or evil spirits, according
to the character of his divinations.
“ The disposition to believe in Spiritual agencies, as a means
of escaping from the necessity of patient observation, and the
labour of collecting facts and tracing them to their causes,
has very much diminished of late years. Charles Lamb long
ago shrewdly remarked in reference to such subjects,—| That
the intercourse was opened at all between both worlds, was
perhaps a mistake,’ that is, as a means of explaining such
phenomena. I think we will drop the ‘ perhaps,’ and say it
was a great mistake at all times, and has at all times led to
confusion, misunderstanding, and suffering, to refer any pecu¬
liar phenomena either in the outer world, or in the human
mind, to the direct agency of supernatural good or evil powers,
who are supposed to override or set aside the ordinary laws of
the universe, and come in with a special agency to effect some
special object.* It is a mistake too, which binds those who
make it in slavery to superstition, and prevents them both
from making any real progress in true knowledge, and from
discovering and employing remedies for the evils which sur¬
round them. For, if we are dealing with natural phenomena,
* This is quite true. Spiritual phenomena are governed on both sides of
the grave by fixed natural laws.—Ed.
however strange, complex, obscure, and difficult they may be,
we may yet hope by patience and perseverance to come at
length to understand them. But who can hope to contend
with spirits or to comprehend what are the motives which in¬
fluence them, or wbat are the principles which shall determine
them to interfere or to remain inactive ? It is clear we can¬
not hope such a thing ; and therefore all such supposed
supernatural phenomena will be left uninvestigated, a terra
incognita, a.land full of ghosts and goblins, who scare away
those who would dare to enter within its precincts.
‘ ‘ Having such a conviction of the absolute harmony, and, if
I may so speak, legal administration of the universe, I feel no
disposition unnecessarily to call in spirits to explain such
phenomena, or to seek the exorcist to prevent their recurrence.
For many years I have had my attention directed to such
phenomena, and I have asked myself whether they may not
all be referred to some common law of human nature. At
any rate, I am persuaded it will be better to believe this, and
to work towards it. We may not all at once find this law.
We may barely get a glimpse of it. Yet by attempting to
investigate such phenomena on the hypothesis that they are
not accidental nor supernatural, but simply manifestations of
the human mind acting in accordance with certain fixed laws,
we shall be moving in the direction of the truth, whether we
ever reach it or not. At the same time I hold it to be utterly
unscientific to deny the existence of spirits, or to refuse to
allow the possibility of their playing any part in the affairs of
man. The pure physicist tells us that it is out of his sphere to
determine whether there are such spiritual entities or not.
His work lies among material facts; he cannot collect facts
from the spirit world. This may be so ; and undoubtedly so
long as he finds natural conditions sufficient for the explanation
of such mental phenomena, he wisely abstains from seeking
for other causes. But if he cannot collect facts to prove the
existence of spirits, nor trace evidence of their continually
traversing the order of things in this lower world, at least he
cannot disprove their existence. Such facts may elude his
observation, or he may not yet understand how to search for
them, or what kind of facts to look for. It would therefore
be unscientific in him to act the dogmatist, and to imagine that
his ignorance or incapacity has proved a negative. And for
my part I accept the arguments of the metaphysician as
having amply proved the existence of a spiritual entity in
man, distinct from the material organisation in which it
works, and by which it is brought into relation with the
external world. And I shall always speak in this belief in the
following paper.
“ The great'difficulty in the way of scientific investigation of
such questions, is that we are dependent for individual facts on
the observation of individuals. We cannot experimentalise
on them. We cannot cause them to be repeated at will. The
observer, generally at the time of observation in a super-
excited state of mind, and becoming more excited by what he
has witnessed, relates the fact to us, and with it his own inter¬
pretation, generally delivered in the most dogmatic form, and
abundantly coloured by the imagination. He asks, did he not
see ? Must he not believe his senses ? Can a fact lie ?—
meaning here, by the fact, his own interpretation of it, thus
illustrating the saying, ‘ Nothing lies like a fact,’ that is,
if it be misinterpreted.”
The author then proceeds to divide his subject into—
1. Dreams.—2. Sympathy.—3. Presentiment.
CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS WITH THE WILL.
The author says that a friend of his own supplied him
with the following statement:—
“ In my early days as a medical student, having seen and
tried successfully some experiments in mesmerism, and lying
awake one night at home, I resolved to attempt, by my will,
to form a definite image in the dark room. After a little
deliberation, I fixed upon the figure of a monkey, and as this
would be a dark object, further pictured him with a red coat.
The figure would thus be distinctive and unmistakable. And
I now exerted my will to form it visibly. Before very long,
the image of my mental picture gradually emerged from the
darkness, and grew into a distinct object. I now tried to dis¬
perse it without effect. The thing of my own creation still
stared at me, though I covered my eyes with clothes. The
mind was probably fatigued by the creative process, and I
became alarmed. Ultimately I fell asleep from exhaustion.”
Further on he quotes the following case as recorded
by Dr. Wigan:—
“ I knew a very intelligent and amiable man who had the
power of placing before his eyes himself, and often laughed
heartily at his double, who always seemed to laugh in his
turn. This was long a subject of amusement and joke, but the
result was lamentable. He became gradually convinced that
he was haunted by himself, or (to violate .grammar for the
sake of expressing the idea) his self. The other self would
argue with him pertinaciously, and to his great mortification
sometimes refute him, which, as he was very proud of his
logical powers, humiliated him exceedingly. He was eccen¬
tric, but was never placed in confinement, or subjected to the
slightest restraint. At length, worn out by the annoyance, he
deliberately determined not to enter on another year of exist¬
ence ; paid all his debts, wrapped up in separate papers the
amount of the weekly demands, waited, pistol in hand, the
night of the 31st of December, and as the clock struck twelve,
fired it into his mouth.”
Dr. Callaway adds :—
“ To this class we may well refer those strange confessions
made by some who have been accused of witchcraft. They
have persistently declared that they held commerce with the
devil, and by his instrumentality had been guilty of the crimes
ascribed to them.”
THOUGHT-READING.
In other parts of the paper, while speaking of what
he calls “ sympathy,” Dr. Callaway says :—
“ I have, myself, known of several cases in which a person’s
thoughts have been distinctly recognised and related, without
any possible external means by which they could have been
communicated. ”
A VOICE CIRCLE AMONG THE ZULUS OF NATAL.
The following is one of the most interesting portions
of Dr. Callaway’s paper :—
“ A native Kraal amongst the Amadunga on the Tukela,
having had some quarrel with their people, came into the
neighbourhood of the lower Umkomangi, and settled with a
174
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1871.
relative among the Atnahlongwa. They lived with him as
dependents in his village. Soon after settling there a young
child was seized with convulsions, and, at once alarmed, they
determined to consult a woman, living at some distance, cele¬
brated as one who divined correctly by the aid of familiar
spirits. Some young men, cousins of the child, went to con¬
sult her. On entering her hut and saluting her, she merely
responded, but said nothing for some time. But at length,
after taking some snuff, she yawned, stretched, and shuddered,
as is the custom with diviners when about to be the subjects
of inspiration. She then said, ‘ They who divine are not yet
come.’ that is—the spirits.
“They remained waiting a long time, until they almost
forgot the object of their coming ; at last a voice, as of a very
little child, proceeding from the roof of the hut, saluted them.
They started, and looked to see whence the voice came. The
spirits said, ‘ Why are you looking about ? We merely salute
you.’ They replied, ■ We look about because we cannot see
where you are.’ The spirits replied, ‘ Here we are, but you
cannot see us. You will be helped, not by seeing, but by
hearing what we say.’
“ The case then proceeded exactly as in common divina¬
tions. excepting only that the woman was apparently passive,
and the conversation was carried on by the voices, the revela¬
tions being made by them.
“ The spirits began by saying—‘ You have come to inquire
about something.’ They were silent, and the woman said,
‘ Tell them. They say you come to enquire about something.’
They smote the ground in token of assent, The spirits con¬
tinued—‘ That about which you come is a matter of great im¬
portance. An omen has appeared in some one.’ Again they
smote the ground assenting, and asked, ‘ How big is the
person in whom the omen has appeared ?’ The spirits re¬
plied, ‘It is a young person.’ They smote the ground vehe¬
mently here, because as they said, ‘ They saw she had hit the
mark.’
“ The spirits then went on to say that the omen was bodily,
that the person affected was a boy, that he was still young—
too young to go out to herd. All this being assented to in
like manner, the spirits went on feeling their way, as it were,
to these things. They said, 1 Strike the ground that we may
see what it is that has occurred to the body of this little boy.
There he is. We gee him. It is as if he had convulsions.’
This was assented to with a most earnest smiting of the
ground. The spirits said—‘ What kind of convulsions are
they 1 Ask of us.’ The enquirers told the spirits they were
going the right way, and required no assistance of them. The
spirits replied, ‘We told you to ask, because perhaps we are
going wrong.’ They then went on to detail in a most minute
and correct manner the time when the first convulsions took
place, and the character of the attack, and what was done
and said by the mother of the child and others. All this
having been assented to, the spirits continued—* The disease
resembles convulsions. You have come to ask us the cause ?'
They replied, ‘ Yes, truly, spirits, we wish to hear from you
the disease and its cause ; and also the remedy.’ The spirits
promised to inform them, but first told them other particulars.
The boy was the only child of his father. He was their
brother, but not really their brother but their cousin. He
was their brother because their fathers were brothers. They
then went on to say—‘ Smite the ground that I may see
which is the older of the two. We say, boys, your own
father is dead. Smite the ground that we may see where
he died. There he is, we see him. He died, boys, in
the open country. He was stabbed with an assagai. By
what tribe was he stabbed 1 He was stabbed by the Ama-
zulu on this side the Tukela. That is where your father
died, boys.’
“ They then told them that the disease was not, properly
speaking, convulsions, but was occasioned by the ancestral
spirits because did they not approve of their living in their
relative’s kraal, but wished them to have their own kraal.
They told them among what tribe they were living and to
what tribe they belonged. That the person with whom they
lived was their cousin on the mother’s side. They exonerated
the cousin from all blame, saying—‘ We see nothing wrong
in the village of your cousin. He is good. Even no prac¬
tising of sorcery there. I see that the village is clear of that.
You eat with your eyes shut, for you have no reason to com¬
plain. What we tell you is this. It is the ancestral spirits
that are doing this thing.’
“ They then proceeded to tell them the remedy. ‘ We have
pointed out to you the ancestral spirits as the cause of this
disease. When you reach home you shall take a goat. There
it is—a he-goat. I see it.’
“ They said—‘ How do you see it ?’
“ The spirits replied—‘ Be silent. We will tell you and
satisfy you as to its colour. It is white. That is it which has
just come from the other side of the Hovo, from the Amanzim-
tote. It is now a large he-goat. You shall sacrifice it, and pour
its gall on the boy. Go and gather for him Itongo-medicine. I
see the Itongo. It says that your village must be removed
from its present place, and stand alone. Does not the Itongo
ask why you have lived so long in the village of another ?
The he-goat you will sacrifice to your grandmother. It is she
who refuses to allow the child to die. Your grandfather has
earnestly wished to kill him. We tell you this to satisfy you.
We tell you that if the disease returns you may come again
and take back your money. Now we have divined for you, so
give us your money.’
“ They offered the money, and the spirits told the woman
to take it. She took it, at the same time warning the spirits
that if it turned out that they had spoken falsely, she would
give it back again.
“ The narrator, who was one of the persons engaged in the
enquiry, goes on to say that the woman with the familiar
spirits sat in the middle of the hut, at the time of full day¬
light. The spirits cannot divine by themselves ; when they
are going to divine their possessor goes with them. The
possessor of them cannot divine; she usually says very little,
and she too enquires of the spirits, asking, ‘ So and so, when
you say that, do you tell the people who have come to inquire
of truth?’ They replied that ‘They did tell the truth, and
that the people would see.’
“ So the possessor of the spirits took the money; and the
spirits said, ‘ Go in peace. And give our services to your
people.’
“ They went home, sacrificed the goat, poured the gall
on the child, plucked for him Itongo medicine, and gave him
the expressed juice to drink, and made immediate arrange¬
ments for building themselves a new kraal.
“ And the child never had an attack of convulsions after,
and is living to this day, a strong healthy young man.
“ The name of this woman was Umkankagi. She lived on
the Umtwalume by the sea, a day and a-half’s journey dis¬
tant from the kraal of those who enquired of her. They had
never seen her before.”
Canon Callaway further says about this case |—
“Now we shall be all ready with our explanations. We
may say she had gleaned and treasured up in her memory the
history of these people; that she had secret intelligence of all
things going on around her ; that she had been told of their
having brought home a white he-goat only a few days before
going to inquire of her ; that the recovery of the child was a
mere coincidence, and that the voices were produced by ventri¬
loquism. Whether this is a correct explanation or not, the
woman displayed much ability in playing her part. And
where the spirits assert that they see, we are reminded of the
old seers who in their state of ecstacy peered into the distant
void, and saw visions of the past, present, or future, which
sometimes proved to be a scenic exhibition of facts displayed
to their inner sense, and which they had no external means of
knowing.’’
DISCUSSION.*
Mr. J. W. Jackson, P.A.S.L., of Glasgow, said that in the
fir^t place, he did not think that the author had sufficiently
explained his subject by the aid of phenomena, well known to
men of science, for all the phenomena of dreams can be repro¬
duced by means of phreno-mesmerism. He knew that subjects
like these were much tabooed by the Anthropological Society,
still they form a part of the study of the science of man.
When a man is in the mesmeric sleep, the operator has but to
excite the organ which leads to dream life ; if it be desired to
show him somebody in distress, the operator has but to touch
the organ of benevolence; if veneration be excited, he will
perhaps fancy that he is in church ; if the organ of philopro¬
genitiveness be touched, and the subject be a lady, she will
perhaps fancy that she has an imaginary baby, and will begin
to nurse it with the greatest care. Dreamlife is a reversal of
the waking state. In the former state, objects excite ideas ;
in the latter ideas place objects before the consciousness.
Community of sensation may also be produced by mesmerism,
and what the operator feels and tastes, the patient will also
feel and taste ; this is the case sometimes when the operator
does not touch the patient, but is on the other side of the
room. Two minds may be united in the same way, and then
thought-reading takes place. They might assert that these
things did not take place, but they do occur, and every mes-
meriser has his thoughts revealed to him at one time or other
by his subjects. The paper just read was interesting because
of its bearing upon the state of the psychology of the savage ;
although the savage has a coarser physique than the European,
he is more susceptible perhaps to psychological influences than
the white man, because he lives nearer to nature, and all over
the world, wherever men live closer to nature, they are more
susceptible to mesmeric influences. There is no question that
many of the phenomena now taking place among Spiritualists,
throwmuch light upon what is taking place among the natives
of Natal, and many of the things described in the, paper, now
occur in our midst. He had seen heavy articles moved about
in opposition to the law of gravitation, notwithstanding all
that Professor Tyndall and others might say to the contrary;
at the same time, he would not say that spirits moved them.
These things are taking place round and about us. What is
the value of the opinion of a man on this subject who has
never seen these things ? He had seen them, and knew them
to occur. Many Spiritualistic facts are mesmeric in their
origin. He should like to hear a paper read before the society
on the Medicine Men of North America; also, if some of our
Indian Officers would give a paper on mesmeric phenomena
among the Hindoos, it would be interesting, for India is a
great storehouse of extraordinary psychological phenomena.
The great thing was for the writers of such memoirs to state
what they know without fear. Dr.'Callaway had not been
afraid to speak the truth that was in him, and that was the
great merit of his paper.
Mr. W. Dendy said that the Spiritualists must not have
the tether that evening. As regards Dr. Callaway’s paper,
what was true in it was not new, and what was new was not
true. (Laughter). Dr. Callaway was egregiously wrong in
writing it, and he ought to be ashamed of himself; Mr. Jack-
son, also, was a great man in stating things of which he was
not ashamed. He wished that Sir John Lubbock had been
present that evening to defend the savages, for many of the
facts mentioned m the paper were mere humbug. He thought
that Mr. Jackson was correct in much that he had said about
dreams, but when he stated that he could excite a particular
organ, he thought it was an entire mistake ; it was the same
great error that Gall and Spurzheim fell into. By mapping
the skull, it was not posssble to map the brain underneath.
Phrenologists place the organ of colour in the forehead,
whereas the nerves from the eye go a long way back into the
centre of the brain, so to have all that humbug stated at that
meeting was too hard to bear. He thought that when their
old friend Dr. Donovan ceased attending their meetings, that
he and phrenology had gone out together. He very much
regretted that such a farrago had been placed before them to
discuss, and he rose to inveigh against the paper.
Major S. R. Owen said, that, whether the brain could be
mapped out or not he did not know, but almost all the experi¬
ments mentioned by Mr. Jackson he had personally tried
again and again; he knew them to be true, so took to himself
all the blame awarded by Mr. Dendy.
Mr. Prideaux said that he had seen the phenomena of what
is called phreno-mesmerism, and thought that they were pro¬
duced by the belief of the operator; the operator believed that
a certain part of the head was connected with certain organs,
and because of this belief the phenomena were produced.
Phrenology itself must be proved by facts and not by opinions,
and if Mr. Dendy would bring painters and colour-blind
people to him, whom he had never seen before, he would look
at their heads, and would separate the one class from the
other.
Mr. Charlesworth said that the paper was all rubbish and
wholly unworthy of discussion. The society would have been
much better employed in discussing phr enology and mesmerism
than the facts in that paper.
The President said that the subject was one which well
deserved investigation, and it was one which laboured under
an immense amount of prejudice. In some ages great
credulity was the rule, and in others a great degree of sceptic¬
ism ; every pretence at a ghost was once believed in, and now
perhaps we go too far in an opposite direction. He wished
that some tests could be applied to the phenomena, and he
thought that the whole question was one which came within
the province of the Anthropological Society. He thought there
were certain cases of ghost seeing not readily explainable by
any theory put forth that evening, such as those instances in
which people have died in foreign l.ands, say in India, and ap¬
peared to one or more friends at home at the moment of death.
Those cases, he thought, could not be got over. The paper
* We (extract this report of jthe discussion from the Mechanics' Magazine
of May 26th.
was valuable as showing how the opinions of savages agree
with our own on such subjects. It was a fair subject for in¬
quiry, and prejudice should be laid aside. Could not some
scientific test be applied to these things ? He rather thought
with Mr. Jackson, and attributed more value to the paper than
had been done by some of the other speakers, though he did
not exactly see the connection of phrenology with the subject.
He thought that the society should scientifically study the sub¬
ject, try it by tests, and dismiss prejudice as much as possible.
Mr. Prideaux asked permission to speak a second time, and
said that the phenomena were real. He had had some talk
with the Bishop of Winchester about them, and the bishop ex¬
pressed his opinion that the phenomena were governed by
exact laws like everything else in nature, only as yet we do
not know the laws. One difficulty in the way of scientific in¬
vestigation is the uncertainty and fugitive nature of the
phenomena; the presence of persons adverse to their occurrence,
interferes very much with the effects produced. Their strange
nature was no argument against them, for if eclipses only took
place once in a century, the testimony as to their occurrence
would be disbelieved. He was quite ready to take his share
of obloquy in all matters connected with mesmerism and
spiritualism, but with respect to the latter subject he was not
sstisfied as to the cause of the phenomena.
The Chairman : I think that it is a very fair question for
investigation.
Mr. Dendy said that he believed in Mesmerism, for once he
tried experiments in that subject with Dr. Elliotson.
The proceedings then closed.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIRMINGHAM DISTRICT.
Last month the! Sun day meetings for lectures and discus¬
sions on the subject of Spiritualism, held in the public room,
Paradise-street, Birmingham, were brought to a close. On
the last Sunday the morning and evening meetings were of
more than usual interest. In the morning Mr. Gillman, of
Wolverhampton, was present, and intended to give a lecture
upon Spiritualism, but as the company was small, and ap¬
peared to be harmonious, he suggested that they should hold a
seance. A table was procured, and after waiting a little time
a spirit, purporting to be “ J. H. James,” manifested himself,
saying that he had been helping in the mission of bringing
Spiritualism before the Birmingham people, and would con¬
tinue still to assist; he added that if they would sit in the
evening, he would again come, but they were to meet at the
room in Suffolk-street. In the evening the little public room
in Paradise-street was well filled, about 120 persons being
present, and the difficulty was that the room at 125, Suffolk-
street, would not be large enough to accommodate them, so
that those assembled were compelled either to forego the
stance, or to hold it in the public room. They adopted the
latter alternative, formed a circle, and obtained manifestations
before the large number present, which much astonished the
lookers-on, many promising to form circles in their own
homes. The communicating spirit said that when in the body
he was a most earnest believer in Spiritualism, and a zealous
advocate of its truths. Since that time meetings have been
held every evening at the room 125, Suffolk-street, Mr. Harper
giving a lecture on Sunday evenings. In the immediate dis¬
trict of Birmingham Spiritualism is being earnestly investi¬
gated by numbers of intelligent truth-seekers. At Walsall,
Mr. Blinkhorn, a gentleman well known for his probity and
straightforwardness, has thrown his house open for the pur¬
pose of holding seances, and physical and other phemonena
have been obtained. At West Bromwich a circle has been
formed, and incipient manifestations have been obtained, Miss
Tunbridge being developed as a writing medium. At Smeth¬
wick circles are held at the houses of Mr. Jabez Lones and
Mr. Brettel, where writing and trance mediums are being
rapidly developed, and physical manifestations are obtained.
The usual war on the subject has, of course, begun in the
local newspapers. The Birmingham Morning News has
treated Spiritualism with fairness, without committing itself
to any opinions. The Birmingham Daily Post has been
somewhat abusive, and has misinformed its readers on the
subject. It describes a stance which was manifestly held
under adverse conditions, but physical manifestations were
at last obtained, and raps were heard; those phenomena
must have had some cause, so it would have been more
philosophical on the part of the editor to have found out the
cause first, and, if necessary, printed the newspaper abuse
afterwards, assuming newspaper abuse to be justifiable under
any circumstances.
MR. HOME AT ST. PETERSBURGH.,
To the Editor of the Standard.
“ Sib,—I must request you to publish the following extract
from the Journal of St. Petersburgh, dated 4th May.—Yours
truly, D. D. Home.
20, North Audley-street,
Grosvenor-square, W. May 22.
“ St. Petershurgh, March 26, 1871.
“L’Avoix publishes the following protest:—
“ Sib—It has been published in No. 80 of L’Avoix, in No. 82
of the Gazette (Russe) de VAcademie and in several other news¬
papers, copying from a correspondent from St. Petersburgh to
the Gazette Russe, that during his visit to St. Petersburgh
‘ Mr. Home thought it necessary before his seances to make
preparations in the apartments of the persons who invited
him, and that he was paid in bank notes and in emeralds,’ and
‘ consequently he gained money by charlatanism.’
“ The undersigned, at whose house Mr. Home gave his
seances, consider it due to the truth to declare that they re¬
ceived Mr. Home as a guest and a friend, and that he re¬
ceived from none of them payment for his seances, either in
money or in emeralds, and that in none of their houses did
he make any previous preparations.
(Signed) “ Theodore Levschine, Baron Theodore de Meyen-
dorff, Elisabeth Levschine,- wife of M. le Conseiller
prive actuel Levschine ;|the Prince A. Kourakine, the
Prince P. Yolonsky, the Count Alexander Sollohub,
the Count M. Platow, the Baron Alexander de Meyen-
dorff, the Princess S. Schakovskoi, n6e Countess de
Modenes, le Conseiller d’etat actuel Prince Alex¬
ander Schakovskoi, the Baroness M. de Lieven, the
General Melnikoff, Alexander Tazykoff, the Prince
Constantin Souvoroff, Alexander Aksakoff.”
“ It must further be added,” writes M. Aksakoff to L'Avoix,
“ that Mr. Home gave seances in St. Petersburgh in 20 dif¬
ferent houses in all. Some of these ladies and gentlemen are
now absent; others have been unable to sign on account of
their social position.” (The Imperial family.)
June 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.}
PRAYER ANSWERED.
Sir',—During a short visit this month to Carnarvon, North
Wales, I met several persons who had, at various times, seen
spiritualistic phenomena; but they, as Christians, feared to go
into the subject on account of its having, to their minds, some¬
thing of witchcraft in it. But' said an elderly person, “I
will tell you a fact. I had, for some time, neuralgia so severe,
that at last I was quite miserable, and did not know what to
do. I thought as spirits exist, and are near us, the Lord can
remove it. I prayed to the Lord Jesus Christ, and (taking up
a stone on the path we were walking on, and throwing it down
with vigour) as soon as I had expressed the prayer, something
seemed to shoot out of me like that stone went to the ground,
and I have not had the pain since.” John Jones.
Enmore Park, S.E.
A NEW MEDIUM.
Sir,—I write to describe some recent manifestations wit¬
nessed at the residence of a gentleman of the name of Cook,
in Hackney, whose daughter has mediumistic qualities, which
have appeared within the past fortnight or three weeks. The
young lady (aged fifteen) and her mother were sitting at a
table on the afternoon of the 31st of May last, when, among
other communications, they were urgently requested “to go at
once to 74, Navarino-road, where they hold seances.” They
accordingly called at my residence during my absence. I
afterwards paid them a visit. A stance was arranged, the
sitters consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Cook, their daughter, an
aunt, and myself ; the light Was removed, when immediately
Miss Cook was placed upon the table, and, upon my holding
her hand, she was removed from the table on to the floor, and
on to the table again several times in a manner which convinced
me she was being floated in the air. The table, a heavy oak
one, was then thrown with great force over into the fireplace,
and Miss Cook carried very rapidly round the room. Articles
were carried about the room, and Miss Cook stated that she
saw several spirits and lights during the evening; also that
one spirit, known to the family, shook her by the hands, and
kissed her.
On the 2nd iinst. I was privileged to sit with them again.
The circle consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Cook, Miss Cook, and
myself. Previous to the light being removed, the table gave
violent tilts, and on extinguishing the light, Miss Cook and her
chair were repeatedly removed from the floor on to the table.
A chair was twice placed over my head, without its legs first
touching me ; then a portion of Miss Cook’s dress was re¬
moved, and after being whisked in our faces, was thrown over
my head, while a hassock was thrown into my lap, as well as
a vulcanite necklace which Miss Cook had been wearing.
Table movements, of a very powerful nature, ensued, whilst
the raps were remarkably loud and distinct. On the gas being
lit. Miss Cook was entranced, and with her head turned from
some paper, and resting on the table, wrote, for the first time
under spirit influence, many very interesting communications.
On my asking the reason for the condition of darkness for
some of the manifestations, she wrote—“ Light destroys our
conditions;” and, on a request for a few words in French,
“Jesuis un esprit,” with the translation, “I am a spirit.’’
Another was—“ Get Florrie (Miss Cook) to come to your
seances, it will be well for both parties.” In answer to other
questions of mine, the spirits intimated that she would
eventually become a very powerful physical, trance, writing,
and speaking medium. Thomas Blyton,
Secretary to the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
June 9,1871.
[We have seen a very little of Miss Cook’s mediumship, and
think that it will develope into something above the average.
Mr. Cook knew nothing of Spiritualism before the manifesta¬
tions began in his house, and he has been considerably sur¬
prised by what he has seen. Writing communications are
given through Miss Cook’s mediumship, while she is half en¬
tranced, usually with her head lying on her left arm on the
table, and if anybody touches her while she is in this state, it
gives her great pain. The member of the Dialectical Society
who was developed into a trance medium while investigating
Spiritualism, and who was made by the spirits to speak
foreign languages, suffered great pain if anybody came within
a^foot or two of him while he was in the trance state.—Ed.]
ANALOGY BETWEEN ELECTRICAL AND SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA.
Sir,—There is not perhaps in the whole range of spiritual
phenomena, to those who are unacquainted with them, or
only partially acquainted with them, experimentally, a greater
stumbling block than the asserted introduction into a room,
of which the doors, windows, &c., are completely closed, of
articles not in it previous to the closing of these apertures. I
have been only once present when this remarkable phenomenon
took place, but as none of the precautions of previous ex¬
amination were taken, my evidence as to its genuineness
would not be very valuable. There are, however, so many
well-authenticated eases in which this extraordinary circum¬
stance has occurred, that the amount of evidence becomes of
serious importance. In addition to this I am able to shew
that a strictly analogous effect was produced sixty-five years
ago by an English philosopher, and forms the brightest star
in his crown of glory as a chemist, and is universally acknow¬
ledged to have been obtained by the most legitimate means, by
the whole of the scientific world.
Spirits whether in the body, or out of it, must use means
to accomplish their intentions, and those out of the body when
questioned as to their mode of operation in introducing
various natural and artificial substances into a closed room,
have, it appears, universally described it as a decomposition
and a recomposition of the substance.* It may or may not
bo equally easy to them to convey the substance in the atomic
form through a wall-door or window, as through crevices, or
keyholes, or wherever any portion, however small, of air
can pass; if it is not equally easy, the wall naturally would
be avoided, and the medium of air be made use of.
I was led to think of this subject recently while reading Dr.
Paris’ Life of Sir Humphry Davy, in which an account is
given of his wonderful discoveries in voltaic action, embodied
in his Bakerian Lecture, delivered Nov. 20,1806. After going
through, and detailing clearly the various experiments, in
which portions of solid bodies were decomposed and conveyed
through other bodies, in spite of the strong chemical affinity
which existed between them; such as the deconiposition of sul¬
* Question?—Ip.
phate of potash, and the convey ancepf.itshulphuric acid through
a solution of ammonia, and many others of a like nature, Dr.
Paris says:—“Amidst all these wonderful phenomena, that
perhaps which excites our greatest astonishment is the fact of
the transfer of ponderable matter to a considerable distance
through intervening substances, and in a form that escapes the
cognizance of our senses!”
Here we have electrical phenomena illustrating one of the
most puzzling of spiritual phenomena, and not only illus¬
trating it, but the great fact that the same thing has been
done sixty-five years ago by a spirit in the body, and since
then by hundreds of others. I have never met with any notice
of this remarkable experiment of Sir Humphry Davy’s as
being analogous to, or an illustration of the phenomenon in
question, but think it well worth consideration by those who
desire to connect the known with the unknown in the pursuit
of truth for its own sake. Henp.x Gollen.
Milford, Godaiming.
ME. J. J. MOESE’S SEANCES.
We have on hand a report crowded out of our last issue, of
one of Mr. J. J. Morse’s Friday evening public seances, at 15,
Southampton-row, Bloomsbury, W.O. Among the communi¬
cations given at the stance was one by a spirit who says that
in life he was a strolling player, but he will not give his name.
His communications are of an amusing character, and as one
of the objections brought against Spiritualism by one section
of its antagonists is the jocular character of some of the mes¬
sages, we here print one of those messages. Mr. Morse, while
under the control of this spirit, said :—
“ We will suppose the case of a man of inquiring mind
named Brown, who is much troubled in mind as to the reality
of a life beyond the grave, and the truthlof the doctrines he has
been taught in his youth. He reads in a certain- book that
the true shepherds of the flock shall be known among other
things by their power to prophecy; so he goes to a neighbour¬
ing cathedral, and says to the Archbishop in his lawn sleeves
1 Prophecy unto me the result of this war.’ The Archbishop
deigns no reply, but he turns to a verger, and says—‘ Yerger,
verge near unto that man, and turn him out!’ (Laughter).
The prophecy test then is a failure. Brown also reads that the
true believers are proof against poison, for they shall handle
snakes without being hurt. He therefore goes to a chemist’s
and buys a penn’orth of arsenic; next he goes to a baker and
buys a big lot of bread; then he goes to a butterman’s and buys
a big lot of butter; lastly he goes to Sheffield and buys a big
knife. Then he selects some convenient place for operations, say
Trafalgar-square (laughter), where he cuts up his bread; then
he butterises away, and arsenicises away, and wheelbarrowises
the whole feast off to the servants of the Lord in the cathedral
and invites them to eat. They would rather not. (Laughter).
They know that they will live if they don’t eat, but are rather
doubtful whether they will live if they do eat. Next Brown reads
that those who have faith shall also have the gift of healing, so
he takes a sick child, not to the Archbishop, but to one of the
lesser lights in the cathedral, who tells him that the text ap¬
plies only to the days of the past. So poor Brown finds that
the things which he has been taught do not work in practice,
wherefore he becomes a materialist. In doing this he flies to
the other extreme, for why do not materialists ask whether
these stories ever had any foundation? As the assumption
exists, we have a fair case for inference that it had some foun¬
dation somewhere; the job is to clear away the mud to get
at the cabbage, for when once a man begins to turn over the
dust of ages, he is sure to bring the bats and owls of public
opinion about his ears. A friend says to Brown ‘ Go to the
Spiritualists.’ Did you ever see night turn into day? If so,
you can imagine the grin which comes over Brown’s face when
told to go among the spirit-rappers. But he goes, and to his
astonishment find all his preconceived ideas upset, to the
great disturbance of his mind. Then he comes down from his
high position, he slides down the skinny pole of materialism ;
he attends the spirit circle, he learns that the sick can be
cured, that people can speak in unknown tongues, and that
prophecy is a fact; also that communication between the two
worlds is real. He gets the evidence, but he has to work for
it. He finds out that the dunder-headed noodles known as
Spiritualists have some notion of a real church; that they
preach the duty of living in a healthy body, and of man doing
his duty to his brother man in the fullest sense of the word.
Then Brown goes back to one of the preachers in the cathe¬
dral, and he says * I have proved outside of your cathedral
that much that you preach is true.’ The preacher replies
1 No Sir, no, it’s the work of the Devil.’ ‘ But my little girl was
cured of curvature of the spine by a healing medium,’ says
Brown. ‘ The Devil, sir, the Devil, it’s all the work of the
Devil,’ says the preacher. After some further talk of this
kind, Brown comes to the conclusion that the Devil is at work
in the matter, but that the Devil is in the parson. Geology
and astronomy were once said by the preachers to be the work
of the Devil, who has done so many good things that when
anything fresh for the benefit of humanity begins to work,
people expect the appearance of the Devil on the horizon.
At last Brown dies, and becomes Brown the immortal.
What a name for a spirit—the immortal Brown ! (Laughter).
On the other side of the grave he finds out that Spiritualism
is true, so Brown comes back to spirit-circles to tell his
friends so.”
One of the listeners said—“ Do you come from heaven or
the other place ?”
Answer:—“If they have opened -the gates of the other
place, and let me out to talk to this highly respectable com¬
pany, depend upon it I shall not be in a hurry to go back
again when this meeting is over. (Laughter). If I were in
heaven, perhaps I might not have felt inclined to come to this
meeting at all.”
At these seances Mr. Morse is very often controlled by Eng¬
lish spirits who narrate some of their experiences on both
sides of the grave, who also give their names, and their former
addresses. Many of these cases have been inquired into, and
found to be true, whilst others could not be traced. Two out
three perhaps are found to be right, and many authenticated
cases of this kind have been published. The occasional
failures seem to be caused by some difficulties, not yet under¬
stood, incidental to this method of communication. When a
spirit who has not long left earth-life, communicates for the
first time, Mr. Morse often feels some of the pains which
afflicted the controlling spirit during the death-process, and
some other trance mediums have had the same experience. We
know one lady, the wife of an officer in the Boyal Navy, who
left off attending Mr. Morse’s seances, because she felt these
pains at the same time that he did, even when she was sitting
several yards away from him, among the listeners.
Several articles, letters, and reviews, are unavoidably
crowded out of this number of The Spiritualist
To night Mr. D. D. Home gives some public readings in
the Hanover-square rooms.
There are rumours that Miss Kate Fox and Mr. T. L.
Harris will shortly visit England.
Mrs. Mary Marshall, the younger, has, we regret to
state, been very ill for two or three months. She is now well
again, and says that her mediumship is as good as ever.
The Kilburn Society of Spiritualists.—This Society
has made arrangements for a series of Tuesday evening seances,
Messrs. Herne and Williams being the media. The secretary
is Mr. A. C. Swinton, 5, Cambridge-road, Kllburn.
Biblical Criticism.—The Eev. Newman Hall tells a
story about a negro preacher who informed his flock that
Adam was made of wet clay, and set up aginst some palings
to dry; and upon a sceptical darkey rising to ask: “ Who
made the palings, den?” retorted: “Sit down, sari such
questions as dat would upset any system of teology.”—
Chambers's Jownal.
Mrs. Hardinge.—Mrs. Emma Hardinge who has done
so much good and hard work on behalf of Spiritualism, has
just returned to London from a lecturing tour in the provinces.
She now lectures on Sunday evenings at the Cleveland-hall.
Many who are delighted with her oratory and who are not
Spiritualists sometimes invite her to lecture on other subjects.
She recently lectured on “Joan of Arc” at Bow, with Mr.
Adams of the North London Railway in the chair. One of her
addresses on “ The Philosophy of Sin,” has been taken down
in shorthand and printed; it is published at a low price, a
penny we believe, by Mr. Burns of Southampton-row, and it is
well worth reading. Airs. Hardinge’s address is 6, Vassall-
terrace, Kensington, London.
The Dalston Association of Spiritualists. — Last
Monday week the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism held its first half-yearly general meeting at the
rooms of Wilks’ Circulating Library, Dalston-lane, when a
very fair muster of members, and others interested in’the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism, attended. The report, as prepared by the
committee, was read and approved; from which it appeared
that the financial condition of the association was favourable.
The average attendance at the Thursday seances was thirteen.
A resolution was passed restricting the admission of visitors to
the first Thursday evening in each month only, and on the
introduction of a member, or upon personal application to the
secretary on a Tuesday evening, between the hours of six and
eight o’clock. It is found that the admission of strangers,
whose sole purpose is apparently to ridicule and oppose inves¬
tigation, detracts from the condition of harmony, so essential
at successful spiritual stances. Arrangements were discussed
for giving a public lecture, and it was resolved to procure the
services of Mrs. Emma Hardinge, the celebrated inspirational
speaker, for an oration on “ Spiritualism, past, present, and
future,” to be delivered on the evening of Tuesday, 27th June,
1871, at the Manor Rooms, Hackney. A number of ladies and
gentlemen volunteered to form a guarantee fund, with power
to add to their number.
The St. John’s Association of Sfiritualists.—The
committee’s report of the society’s operations for the year end¬
ing the 28th of May, 1871, says that during that period the
association has given forty-seven public stances and four lec¬
tures, at St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, admis¬
sion free. The average attendance at the siances has been
from thirty to forty persons, but on several occasions seventy
or more have been present. These meetings have been in¬
teresting, and greatly helped to spread a knowledge of the
truths of Spiritualism. The lectures given were as follows :—
Nov. 3, 1870—“ Modem Spiritualism, with Replies to Ques¬
tions and Objections,” by Mr. T. Shorter. Dec. 1—“What
does Spiritualism each us ?” by Mr. J. Burns. March 2, 1871
—“The Argument for Modern Spiritualism,” by Mr. Shorter.
April 13th—“ The Philosophy of Spiritualism,” by Mr. J. J.
Morse, under spirit influence. These lectures were well
attended, and have done much to stimulate inquiry, and the
best thanks of the association are due to the above named
gentlemen for their valuable services, which were given
gratuitously. The expenditure of the association during the
year has been £19 18s. lid., and the receipts £19 10s. 2d.,
there is, therefore, a balance due to the treasurer.
Miss Houghton’s Spirit Drawings.—Miss Houghton
is well known among London Spiritualists, as a warm and
faithful supporter of the Spiritual movement, and as a lady of
a very truthful and earnest nature. She is now exhibiting in
the New British Gallery, Old Bond-street, some spirit drawings
in water colours, executed through her mediumship, which
drawings are calculated to excite considerable perplexity in
the minds of the observers. In most of these drawings fine or
broad curved lines are.interwoven with each other; they cover
the whole of the sheet of paper right up to the edges, and
the colours are most harmoniously and effectively contrasted,
some of the earlier paintings being especially beautiful.
Some of these paintings are said to be symbolical of the
characters of certain persons who are named, the different
colours, forms, and directions of the lines, having each a
precise meaning. Her hand is moved involuntarily to paint
each of these lines, and she has no idea at the beginning what
each drawing will be like when it is finished. Perhaps then,
by dint of hard study of the meanings of the lines and colours
as explained by the catalogue, and by examination of a
drawing at the same time, a clue may be obtained to the
character of the person represented. Up to this point we can
to some extent understand the drawings, but beyond this have
honestly failed in the attempt. Some of these drawings are
said by her to be representations of real growing spirit flowers;
if so, why are they all cut off square at the edges and where
are the stalks ? The catalogue does not explain this, and it
is a natural question which everybody is likely to ask. Others
are said to be representations of spiritual crowns, but these
also are cut off square at the edges, and have no place to put
the head in. We none of us know the conditions which
colour the communications of spirits as they pass through the
organism of a medium, and there is a possibility that Miss
Houghton accepts literally teachings intended to be symbolical,
for the information which reaches the consciousness of a
medium may be one thing, and the information which the
spirits intended to convey may be another. In all the
English and American literature of Spiritualism, there is no
corroborative testimony as to the objective reality of flowers
such as Miss Houghton believes her drawings to represent, but
if the drawings and their explanations be regarded as sym¬
bolical, as Mrs. De Morgan and others more experienced in
Spiritual symbolism would doubtless define them to be, there
is no doubt that the teachings are most of them very pure and
good; there is evidence of this in Miss Houghton’s printed
catalogue. Some of the drawings are exceedingly beautiful,
and as Miss Houghton is such a true and faithful friend o f
the Spiritual movement, Spiritualists should cluster round her
and go to see the pictures.
176
June 15, 1871
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIBITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESEKVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
■l.ata years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. P. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley,
C.E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.
. “ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company'.
, “ About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that-I had
hot yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was,a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
. •'•'“He immediately'gave me every facility for the pur-
ppse, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with -him oh divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
apd tested them with him, and with others, under con¬
ditions, of my own choice,' under a bright light, and have
itfa‘de’the'm6§'t jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since" then; .for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest mien,. and .having
experimented with and. compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
thatjthe manifestations which I have myself examined
Tferehot'ldueftO the operation of any of .the recognised
ptbysicaMaivs of.nature, ;ahd that.'there has been present
on /the .occasions’ above-mentioned .-some intelligence-
other than that of. the medium ahd observers.”. . ’
, It ,also.fCa,ms but in-:-tiie. pyidence. given at 'the,
trial,'rthsjt Mr, Home had been the invited ahd un-’
rfaid .guest ,pf! the Emperor and the Empfes^ jof the-
french, the .Emperor, ^Empress, and . the late: Em-
press rDomAgermf Bfissi®! the. Grand Duke- Con-
stahtine,.-the King of .Prussia., the lath King‘of
. Payaria, .the Tate King of Wurtemburg, and-the
. QueeffiOf Holland. , ,Mr. Home says that' alPhis.
life' hh dia's never! taken .a.farthing of pay for. his
seances. " In -Marchy 18fi9, the Spiritual Magazine
g-ayefthe-nanies ‘bf •the following''gentlemenyas
those who have long been investigating the. sub-
feet:----..
‘ “Cromwell F, Variey,-Esq'.,.FieetW:6o,d-ho'use, ■BeeKeh-!
ham:; ?Alfrh&' B.. Wal|iC!e,.r ’Esq:i, ..Holly1 Hqus.e,‘ CB$£kr
ihg;' Prof&sor- Hp, Morgan, 91,. Adelaide-road, -.iCW-;
..Captain™Brayson; h.A.f.A?oolwich; Dr.. J, .M. Gully,
The Priory, Great M^lverh: Dr.’J:.G. "Wilkinson,-4,-
St.' John’s-wOod-vilias, -N/W.; .Dr. Dixon, 8, Great. .Or-'
xhond-street, W;C:-.: H. 0: Hall,, Esq.,; 15;’Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.jW.; Hewton CrosiancpEsq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchdrd; HafS-greeh,msher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq.; St; Andrew’'S, . Edinburgh ; H.
D. Jencken, Esq.,' Kilmorey-house,-Norwood; ,J. G.
Qrawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakileld, Kilbum; Lord A'dare, 5,
Buckiugham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvehor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled,
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening-address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, E.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action’’ theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a hook recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal oj
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870 :—
“ 20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th iust., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modern Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themsel ves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, hut as yet with scarcely a tangible
result; •
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—hut I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours.
f 4L William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by O. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says-.
“ There is hut one question I would ask the author-, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No;ifor amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the. author 'addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a-rain-cloud, if it he no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is- Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, whp will investigate the
subject and ... prove it to he an imposture. The
following are his words
“-I now offer you; two challenges.!'
“First,,! ehallenge,you,. or either of you, or any of.
the public who, , like yoh-disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of-spiritualistip phenomena, to deposit in the
handsfif any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I..pledge Apysgifjo immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—-the’ownership>of suchrsum of one thou¬
sand guineas' tov depend upon- my proving’hy'-.eyidence
.sufficient, to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
. First—rfhat intelligent commimiclitions and answers
to’questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally" recognised law
of. nature.
'■.-“ Sepondly—That' dead and' inert matter' does/move
withoutf.'the aid'of {ahyimechanical or knt^m/chemifcal
.agency,’tedimfiefia^eeiOf'afi-the'fedmittedaaVkof^si.vi-
-tatjon. j " -C AA -. .ik ' ..vV -
.. jSj- Thhijly-^-That yolcf's appertaining, to'.nbjorie fm.the
flesh are heard to speak and Hold' rational converse With
men.' '
, “A" jurybTIwehty-fburlgehtlemen, twelve to he ebbsen
by-eachparty (such jury to consist exclusively .of mem-
’beife of 'the learned professions and literacy inenjj to
decide, whether or not,, the -facts contained in the above
propositions; are’cohclusively'proved per testes—i.e.,fry
witnesses;., of established- character. . A majority. of
the .twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, . the thousand guineas
'are to belong to .the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these' facts, are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met bn the .other side in like manner
as. above)—the ownership of the 'second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this ease likewise.
; “ In either case, the dances are to he conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may he available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to he advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damtant.
“Glifton, Oct. H 1868.
“P.S.—^Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Gom-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri-
' tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or.untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, hut no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been, obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, hut
cool rather than warm—let arrangements he made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall, be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is had for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, '■ except ‘with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, hut an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well-to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. - A prayerful,
’earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.-
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at jvork is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
. freely, to avoid confusion, let one person- only, speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three -tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask. whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to "the letter you want, and spell us out a
message?” Should three signals he given, set to'work,
on the plan proposed, and from this time/an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the;question should he put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will he
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is'the
medium ? ” When spirits pome asserting themselves to
he related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put • to test the: accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms: of mediumship .than' tiltp - or raps
may make their appearance. Inf ormation respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will bef.Ound-
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter,
to'Spirit, published by Longmans'; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a", new
circle. ,
Bkitish impebial insubance
. • COBPOBATIQN,^LIMITED.
t J ’ pgr -'effecting; j
BANKING .LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
’ON •GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.'
Head Offices: _ ! ^.
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester/^
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street; London, E.O.
Victoria-build-ings, 66, Renfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’srbuildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds, ■
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names.'of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot he forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan.. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
SUNDAY EVENING MEETINGS in con¬
nection with SPIRITUALISM, conducted by Mrs.
Emma Hardinge, are held every Sunday evening, at
1, Cleveland Assembly Rooms, Cleveland-street, Fitzroy-
square. Admission free. There is a collection at the
doors.
The bbixton society of sptbi-
TUALISTS meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF .En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; ahd a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
MB. THOMAS B. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (eomique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, [and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
I the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons:
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of. Midwifery, ahd
the accessory branches of Medical'Science.
The addresses of - skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
AAEON EBANKLIN, PBESEBYEB OF
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR , OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign hirds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great varie'ty. The Spiritualist and-
kindred periodicals kept on.is^le. -Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Heaven opened; or, messages
for the BEREAVED from qur LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T." With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan.; In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.Q.
On the first of every month.
THE TEUTHSEEKEE, a Eeview
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rey. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and:
through all booksellers and agents.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at1
2s.; post'free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CUBE: illustrating the’
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,"
“The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger,’”
- ‘ &c., &c., &c.
. The design of . this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light bn the subject of Mental Hygiene; which is beginmiig
to assunie importance .in the treatment of diseasfe, and to;
attract 4he attention .of physiologists. , The. author has
aimed tbillustrate^ttie Correspondence of the soulamL
body,thkn mutualsfdtionRnd reaction, and to demonstrate’
the casual relation of .disordered mental states to diseasefiv
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the. intellectual and affectional nature of the-
invalid under any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street.
304 pp., Svo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free;
ALYEIC OF THE GOLDEN AOEh
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
CLAIBYOYANCE.—MADAME DE BAD-
DELEY, the celebrated Clairvoyante, at home for
consultation from 2 till 7, Daily. Communication by.
letter, upon stating age, &c. Morning consultations by
appointment. Address—4, Exeter-villas, Kennington-
oval, London, S.E.
Exhibition of spibit dbawings
in WATER COLOURS, by Miss Houghton.—.
NEW BRITISH GALLERY, 39, Old Bond-street, Picca¬
dilly. Open daily from 10 a.m. till 6 p.m. Admission Is.
Catalogue Is.
Messes, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
Birmingham spiritualists’ as¬
sociation. The believers in Spiritual science
have taken a Room at 125, Suffolk Street, where circles
are formed for the investigation of the phenomena, as
well as for the confirmed Spiritualist. Terms on appli¬
cation addressed to the Secretary. Stances every evening.
OTcntents.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., on Disembodied Spirits 169
Marvellous Spiritual Manifestations:—The Human
Body and Solid Objects carried from place to
place and through the walls of houses by Spirits
—Another Account of the Stance—Other Cases
of Transportation of the Body—Mr. Coleman on
the Carriage of the Human Body from one place
to another by Spirits 169
Physical Manifestations through the Mediumship of
Messrs. Heme and Williams:—Table Levitations
—Spirit Identity—The Passage of Matter through
Matter—Levitation of Furniture—A Bible Carried
by Spirits—Spirit Lights—Another Bible Carried
—Seeing Mediumship—Testimony of a Baptist
Minister—Levitation of the Human Body—Spirit
Identity—The Abode of “John King”—A Lock
of Hair brought from the Grave by Spirits—
Spirit-hands—Movements of Solid Objects with¬
out Human Contact—Movements of Solid Objects
—Resurrection—The Human Body and Solid Ob¬
jects Floated in the Air—How John King first
Spoke through Mr. Williams’s Mediumship—A
Spirit Head   173
Spiritualism at the Anthropological Institute:—The
Rev. Canon Callaway on Psychological Pheno¬
mena—Curious Experiments with the Will—
Thought-Reading—A Voice Circle among the
Zulus of Natal—Discussion ... ...    174
Spiritualism in the Birmingham District 174
Mr. Home at St. Petersburgh 174
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Stances..;  175
Correspondence ;—^Prayer Answered—A New Me¬
dium—Analogy between Electrical and Spiritual
Phenomena 175
PARAGRAPHS:—The Kilburn Society of Spiritualists
—Biblical Criticism—Mrs. Hardinge—The Dals¬
ton Society of Spiritualists—Miss Houghton’s
Spirit Drawings 175
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
