AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEBED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No
135.—(Vol. VL—No.
is.) LONDON:
MARCH 26, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
Healing Mediumship    145
The.First Experiences of an Inquirer into Spiritualism. No. III.:—
Handling Red-hot Coals under Spirit Influenee—The Elongation of
Mr. Home’s Body—The Fire Test Again—An Attempt to Obtain
Dark Circle Manifestations in the Light—Paid Mediums—Mr.
Heme’s Clairvoyance—Strange Mesmeric Phenomena—Clair¬
voyant and Trance Manifestations—Spirit Identity—The Founding
of The Spiritualist Newspaper—National Organisation of Spirit¬
ualists—The Discussion     147
The Experimental Sitting with Mrs. Fay. By Edward W. Cox, Ser-
jeant-at-Law 151
Spirit Teachings. No. XXIX 151
Review    ... 153
An Oriental Trance Medium. By Keningale Cook, B.A 153
Photographing Invisible Objects   154
Correspondence:—Spiritualism Illustrated  155
The Archbishop of Toulouse on Spiritism  *   156
Answers to Correspondents   ...  156
Paragraphs:—Mesmerism in India, 150; Pictures of Spirits, 150;
Duplication of the Human Form, 154; Spiritualism in East Lon¬
don, 155; Brixton Psychological Society, 155; An Orthodox
Opinion, 155; Liverpool Psychological Society  155
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 18 7 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jeneken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer-
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
■Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a bnsis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena' and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations (vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the Jirst Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. Ail the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions ? how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers.in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold a
SERIES OF OONYERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J..W. Haxbv, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second , Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats Qs. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. .Webster
Glynes. 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published oh
the 1st and 15th .of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologigues>
J-V fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Soeiete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
1DHE SPIRITUALIST. March 26, 1875.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oi’pice-Bearers eok 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. 'William Davies. -
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitohman, Messrs. John Priest’
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haalam, E. Gr.
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman,
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the-discoyery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.’, Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
^Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CUE ATI YE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baxlliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Spiritualism and reform. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Ttiree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRT, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to; the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN, A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakop, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze,Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2^d. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, BetChworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT
BRITAIN.
At a MEETING, held on Monday, February 22nd, Mr. Serjeant Cox in
the chair, it was resolved unanimously:
That a Society for the promotion of Psychological Science be now
formed,
That the Society be called the “ Psychological Society op Great
Britain.
That the object of the Society be the scientific investigation of Psychology
in all its branches.
That such investigation be by the collection of facts, by the reading of
papers, and by discussions thereon.
That the purpose of the Society being to trgat the subject solely as
questions of Science, all theological discussion be strictly excluded.
That the Society shall consist of an unlimited number of members, to be
elfectedby the Council.
That the Annual Subscription to be paid by members residing within
twenty miles from London be Two Guineas, and by members residing
beyond that distance One Guinea.
That the business of the Society be conducted by a President, four
Vice-Presidents, a Council (not exceeding twelve members), a Treasurer,
Auditor, and Secretary, all of whom shall be elected annually by the
members.
That the Society meet peiiodically at such times and places as the
Council shall appoint.
That the proceedings at the meetings of the Society be conducted in
accordance with such rules and regulations as the Council shall from time
to.time direct. Three of the Council shall be a quorum.
That a General Meeting of the Society be held in the month of November
next, for the election of the officers of the Society.
That F. K. Munton, Esq., of 21, Montague-street, be requested to under¬
take the office of Honorary Secretary, pro few.
EDWARD W. COX, Chairman.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of tbe Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spirituahsm. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
ME. WALLACE’S SOIREE.
Tickets for mr. Wallace’s soiree, price
Is. 6d. each, may be obtained of Mrs. Parkes, 6, Gaynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.;
Mr. Towns, 1, Albert-terrace, Barnsbury-road, N.; Mrs.'Everitt, Lilian-
villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.; Mrs. Bullock, 19, Church-street,
Islington, N.; Mr. R. Cogman, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, E.; Mr.
Hunt, Secretary to the Marylebone Spiritual Association; Mr. Barber, 30,
Parkfield-street, Islington, N.; or of the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. Bielfeld,
208, Euston-road, or of the Secretaries, Mr. J. Burns, 15, Southampton-
row, and Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden Town, N.W. The
soiree will be held on the 1st of April, at the Co-operative Hall, Castle-
street, Oxford-street.
GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 and 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
OFFICES42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
A Single Premium covering the whole Lire. Profits Divided
AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
Agent—Mr. THOMAS BLYTON, 12, St. PhiUip’s-road, Dalston, London,
E., of whom Prospectuses and all information can be obtained on applica¬
tion.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
established, 1833.
Has a ve/ry large stock of New Spring Goods, including hdts, shi¥ts, Unci
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, marshall & Co.
% lEtnrfr
jj| tip yrugrm nl( ifp ^tpttce
VOtUjVIE ^IX. jNfUJVIBEF? THIRTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 26th? 1875.
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unad-
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist'1'1 in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,.
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Keamey-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for.each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order; The cost of a o t Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifefy, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
The greatest healing medium ever seen in this
country was Dr. Newton. When he came to London
healing the sick in the highways and by-ways by the
laying on of hands, free of charge, such a life was so
much like that of the Apostles, that the churches and
the newspapers abused him alike; he had to give up his
intention of healing the sick poor on the London Fields,
because information was conveyed to him that if he
made the attempt, he would be taken into custody by
the police. We followed him for two or three weeks
in order to learn the nature of his mediumship, and
ascertained what powers he really possessed by inquir¬
ing of the patients directly after they had passed under
his hands what relief he had afforded them. Of doubt¬
ful cases no record was made; for instance, if a man
said that “ he had had a headache and Dr. Newton
had cured it,” no entry was made, because the assertion
would depend entirely upon the word of a stranger;
moreover, there was no telling how far imagination
might have taken part in the matter, but when a man
who went to Dr. Newton upon crutches, said that he
had been cured by him, and was seen carrying away his
crutches upon his shoulder, or when a woman Who
had been blind for years said that she had received
sight, such cases were recorded, and the names and ad¬
dresses of the cured persons taken. In this way a list
of the names and addresses of between one and two
hundred persons was collected and published in The
Spiritualist. We found that Dr. Newton failed, or that
no results worth mentioning were produced, in about
four cases out of five, but every fifth case was a clear
example of the healing of disease.
How can it be proved that these cures were not due
to mesmerism? Dr. Newton was a medium; he some¬
times passed into trances while manipulating the
patients; he occasionally had clairvoyant visions; at
other times he told his patients about their private
affairs, although he had never set eyes upon them till
that moment; further, when at home he could some¬
times get spirit raps. These raps rarely came to him,
but when they did so, it was usually by night, and to
warn him of coming danger; the spirits would wake
him up by rapping on the floor, and then warn him
that there was trouMe ahead, although they were not
always able to tell him its precise nature. He could
not bear to talk for more than five or ten minutes with
strangers; their positive tone of mind tended to drive
him into a trance so that he would become insensible;
hence in his drawing-room at his house at Hampstead
a printed placard was placed upon the sideboard re¬
questing visitors not to remain talking after their re¬
quirements had been attended to. This remarkable
man spent several hundreds of pounds of the money he
had brought with him from America, in relieving the
wants of the poor during hi§ few months’ stay in Eng¬
land. He was a great enthusiast, and did not take
common-sense views of the ordinary things of daily life.
146
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 26, 1875.
One afternoon while we were talking to him, he fell
into a trance, and the communicating spirit said in
effect: “ You think that you are talking to Dr. Newton,
hut you are mistaken. Years ago Dr. Newton tasted
'all that he.will ever know of death ; he is now but one
of a band of spirits engaged in controlling this bodily
organism for the good of mankind.” This is a vivid
picture of the destruction of personal individuality
incidental to powerful mediumship, and there are strong
reasons for supposing that pur more powerful mediums
are commonly under the influence of some spirit or
other, even while they are supposed by those conversing
with them to be in their normal state.
Doing good in the public places of great cities, heal¬
ing the sick by the laying on of hands, and relieving
the poor and afflicted without money and without price,
too strongly resembled the life of Christ to be tolerated
in this professedly Christian land; in fact, if Jesus
were to come back and to tell the deacons of any church
or chapel in London to carry out His principles in their
week-day business, the Church would turn Him out of
its doors, and the Telmraph and Daily News would
abuse Him in leading articles. As for the Bench of
Bishops and the great landowners in Parliament, who
have made laws to bring nearly all the means of sub¬
sistence in the nation into their own possession, they
would look upon Him as a most dangerous character,
and pass a special Act of Parliament to put a stop to
His practices, supposing none of the existing laws were
found adequate to meet the case.
During the visit of Dr. Newton, several Spiritualists
deserted him when they found that he did not heal in
a respectable way. He would work hard in his shirt
sleeves instead of behaving with dignity. Among
those who were true to him when others deserted him
was Mr. Joseph Ashman, upon whom a portion of Dr.
Newton’s power afterwards descended; indeed at the
present time Mr. Ashman is the best healing medium in
this country. Another friend of Dr. Newton’s who aided
him to the last, and who at his open air meetings tried to
keep the crowd in order, was Mr. Pabyan Dawe, whose
conciliatory words and gentlemanly manner had strong
influence in making the heterogeneous masses of all
kinds of people behave peaceably.
A little pamphlet of fifty-six pages has been,
published by Mr. Ashman, entitled Psychopathic Healing,
and in the preface to this narrative he says :—
It may not be out of place, iu this prefatory notice, to state
how I had my attention first drawn to the subject of healing.
Many years ago I was struck by seeing an unqualified person
cure a horse of some ailment after all the veterinaries had
failed, and I made a mental note of the fact. Subsequently I
saw the same practitioner heal the pastern-joint of a horse by
the same simple process. Nothing, however, in the line of this
experience occurred to me until, in 1870,1 read in the Alliance
News that a gentleman had come over from America who was
able to cure diseases by the simple imposition of the hands.
The result was that I attended some of Dr. Newton’s assemblies,
and witnessed a number of his marvellous cures. I asked him
if I could have the same power, and he said yes, and gave me
one of his mesmerised cartes de visile. Armed with this talis¬
man, I ventured on my first endeavour to relieve pain. Seeing
one day a cabman with a swollen face standing by a police
court ready to prosecute a man who had assaulted him, I asked
him if, on condition that I healed him, he would forgive his
adversary. He replied that he would, and we accordingly got
into his cab together. Bringing out the mesmerised carie, I told
him to look at it, and at the same time made a few motions
over the swelling with my hand. I then left him feeling much
better, and returned in an hour’s time, when I found him
taking a glass of beer with his antagonist, whom he had for¬
given. I subsequently made several other cures in the same
way. One day I met a man hobbling along with the greatest
difficulty by means of a stick and a crutch. I had then by
some mischance lost my carte of the doctor, as also the mes¬
merised paper he had supplied me with before he left England.
I nevertheless determined to try what I could do without these
accessories. I got the man to sit down by the roadside, and
placed my hand on his foot and knee, and in a few minutes he
could walk away supported by his stick alone. This con¬
vinced me that I possessed the power myself, and I was thus
encouraged to persevere. Since then I have made some thou¬
sands of cures, many of which were of severe cases, as may be
seen from the testimonials appended to this work.
At the present time Mr. Ashman carries on what he
calls a “ Psychopathic Institution,” at 254, Marylebone-
road, London, and he is aided in his work by two or
three assistants. 2 He finds that some people who want
to be cured of their diseases have a horror of Spiritual¬
ism, but do not mind mesmerism; they would rather
pass their lives in pain than be cured by a medium.
Others, again, consider both mesmerism and Spiritualism
to be of the Devil, for by a strange inconsistency, the
Devil is supposed to perform good works; but they do
not object to the same treatment under the name of
“ medical rubbing.” Who would have thought that
there could be so much in a name ? Mr. Ashman,
as we have stated, calls his establishment a <c Psy¬
chopathic Institution,” and as the public are not
quite sure what “ psychopathy ” may or may not be,
and Mr. Ashman himself is not very clear on the point,
the name gives everybody great satisfaction, since they
can receive “ psychopathic ” treatment with a clear con¬
science, although mesmerism or Spiritualism would be
wicked.
There is an important question in connection with
healing mediumship, namely, can one medium cure
diseases over which another medium fails ? Healing
mediums are .too few to put this to a practical test, but
to approximately solve the question, we went some
years ago to the mesmeric Infirmary and made inquiries
whether one mesmerist could heal diseases, where
another mesmerist failed. The information was given
that it was a well-established fact that one mesmerist
had power to cure where another could do nothing. If,
as is probable, the same principle applies to healing
mediumship, it is plain that a power exists in the
world of curing one-half or three-fourths of the diseases
in it; among the incurable remainder many may be
due to hereditary causes, to bad legislation, to dis¬
obedience to natural laws, and to removable causes, so
that bad as is the general state of the public health at
the present day, there are great hopes for the future,
when the clouds of ignorance and prejudice shall have
been dispelled.
The following testimonials relating to the healing of
diseases by Mr. Ashman may prove of interest; they
are quoted from his pamphlet on Psychopathic Healing:—
No. 4. Sub-acute Rheumatism.
10, Stephen-street, Lisson-grove,
March 20th, 1873.
In 1871 my son was taken with sub-acute rheumatism, and
was in King’s College Hospital three months. He continued
very ill, and went to the Gladstone Home for one month, after
which he was induced to come to you. I had no hope that he
would be able to work again, as his arms and legs were quite
set. After the first visit he began to improve, and has for
nearly two years been able to work.
Francis Pbtob.
No. 6. Rheumatic Fever. •
94, Hereford-road, Dec. 80th, 1872.
Mr. Ashman.—Dear Sir,—I have much pleasure in bearing
testimony to your powers of healing, as shown by my son’s
speedy recovery from a sharp attack of rheumatic fever, in
February, 1872,' for which you attended him. The effect of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
March 26, 1875.
your manipulations speedily removed the violent pains to
which he was subject, and he has since enjoyed perfect, im¬
munity from the disease.—"Jours faithfully,
P. T. Supw, Lt.-Col.
No. 16. Erysipelas.
Mr. Frank Gaynor, 7, Victoria-grove, Bayswater, testifies to
Mr. Ashman’s power in relieving him of erysipelas, caused by
a fall, which entirely closed one of his eyes. Mr. Gaynor was
standing at his own door on June 2nd, 1872. Mr. Ashman
passing saw the condition he was in, and walking up to the
injured man made a few passes which enabled him to open the
eye and see. Next day the symptoms had almost entirely
disappeared.
No. 19. Spinal Affection, Dislocated Shoulder, <Ssc.
21, Salisbury-road, Kilburn-park,
Jan. 20th, 1873.
Dear Sir,—Having heard some time since of the marvellous
cures effected by you, I was induced to give the subject my
attention, and I am thoroughly convinced that what 1 heard
was perfectly correct, having witnessed several cases, as
follow:—
A child who had for some length of time being totally
unable to walk, through an affection of the spine, and who had
received medical treatment in different hospitals without being
in any way benefited, after your treatment for a short time
was enabled to walk, and is going on well.
A young man who was working with me fell down and dis¬
located his shoulder. He went to the doctor, who gave him
some lotion, and told him that it would be several weeks
before he could again resume his employment. I induced him
to apply to you, which resulted in his being able to return to
his work as a carpenter two days after.
Having received some instructions from you howto use this
wonderful power, I have been induced to try it myself, and
that with great success, having been the means of benefiting
several. I believe that if this healing power were better
known and practised, mankind would not experience one half
the pain and the disease now experienced. Wishing you
every success in your great work,—Believe me to remain,
yours truly, William Aplin.
To Mr. Joseph Ashman.
No. 23. Paralysis.
The mention of Dr. Garth Wilkinson’s name in connection
with the following is ample guarantee of its truthfulness:—
In June, 1872,1 was engaged by Dr. Garth Wilkinson, of
76, Wimpole-street, and 4, Finchley-road, St. John’s-wood, to
attend Mrs. Barton, 1, Boundary-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.,
who was paralysed on the left side. The lady being upwards
of eighty years of age, the case might be considered hopeless.
By the combined efforts of Dr. Wilkinson and myself, power
of motion was produced in the affected part. In a few weeks
the lady was able to walk about, and this continues to be the
case, and there is no paralysis remaining; the improvement
also in her general appearance being very striking. Dr. Wil¬
kinson has since frequently employed me, and has introduced
me to his medical brethren, who have availed themselves of
my efforts in several difficult cases.
THE FIRST EXPERIENCES OF AN INQUIRER INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
NO. III.
The following is a continuation of the paper read by
Mr. W. H. Harrison before the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, narrating his early experi¬
ences in the investigation of the subject:—
HANDLING BED-HOT COALS UNDEB SPIEIT INFLUENCE.
Mr. Home, still in the trance state, then paced up and
down the room, after which he walked to the fire-place and
placed his hand on the top of the fire- in the act of
plunging it in, when I gave a slight shudder. He snatched
his hand away from the fire and said, “What did you do that
for? You nearly burnt Dan then! You nearly burnt Dan
then ! Little faith ! Little faith! ’’ He walked up and down
the room rubbing his hands, and muttering to himself in a
discontented tone; then went once more to the fire and
looked round at me, saying “Don’t you do that again.’’
He next plunged his bare hand into the burning coals, and,
after feeling about for a time, brought out a lump about the
size of a cricket ball and returned to his seat at our table,
holding the coal in the middle of his bare hand, palm upper¬
most, over the centre of the table and within a few inches of
our eyes. We could feel the glow warming our faces, and I
noticed that the coal was so hot down to the level where it
touched the skin of his hand, that the light from the coal
reflected from the surface of the skin made the skin itself
appear to be incandescent at places. He held the coal in this
position for two or three minutes, during which time he gave
us a short lecture to the effect that “ God did not care for
great stone buildings with weather-cocks on the top, but the
churches he loved were kind words, warm hearts, and loving
deeds.” After he had finished his discourse the coal was
nearly black, except down in the cracks, from the depths of
which a red glow still issued, when he remarked, “ Perhaps some
of you may think that it is not hot now. You may touch it if you
like.” Upon this,one gentleman present put out his hand,touched
the coal, then drew his hand back with a shake, exclaiming,
“ Yes, by Jove, it is hot! ” which was a somewhat irreverent
remark to make in the presence of such a great manifestation
of power. The entranced medium then drew back his hand,
and said in a quiet, dignified way, “ No, not by Jove! ” upon
which the first speaker looked considerably rebuked, and said,
“ Well Dan, I know I ought not to have said it. No harm has
been done, I hope. I did not mean any harm,” upon which
the medium remarked, “ Oh no, no harm to Jove,” and con¬
tinued his discourse.
THE ELONGATION OF MB. HOME’S BODY.
At this moment a rocking-horse at the further end of the
room, belonging to one of the children, began to rock of its
own accord, and continued to do so steadily for some time.
Next Mr. Home, still entranced, rose from his seat, and came
round to my side of the table, and as he stood by my left side,
Mrs. Yarley exclaimed, “Look! they are stretching him,”
and I noticed that the bottom of his waistcoat, and the top
of his trousers were separating, so as to disclose a white gar¬
ment underneath. All the time his heels were making half-
second beats on the floor, to show that he was not standing
upon tiptoe,' and his body proceeded apparently to elongate,
after which it contracted; but I thought to myself that if the
power about him were to raise his waistcoat and let it fall in
the manner described, there might be an appearance of elon¬
gation, without such really being the case, and I wished
that I had observed whether the top of his head obscured the
pattern of the paper on the wall behind while his head rose,
thus making sure of the fact of elongation. Although I said
nothing, this doubt of mine was apparently read, for the
entranced medium put down both his hands, raised my hands
from the table, and placed one of them over each of his hips ;
then, with his heels beating upon [the ground as before, the
top of his trousers and the bottom of his waistcoat again
separated till they were clear of each of my hands, by about
half an inch, above and below, and all this time I could see his
rising head cutting off my view of more and more of the pat¬
tern of the paper on the wall behind, after which his body
contracted again.
Lord Lindsay, Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., and others have
testified to having seen the same very unbelievable manifesta¬
tion in other places, and under such conditions that the
elongation could be accurately measured.
THE FIBE TEST AGAIN.
I asked the controlling spirit how it was that the coal did
not burn Mr. Home’s hands while he was handling it ? He
replied that “ all the time the coal was in the hand the spirits
were sending a stream of some force, of which we knew no¬
thing, down the arm and hand, and thus counteracted the
influence of the heat; if the flow of that stream were to be
stopped for an instant, the coal would have burnt his hand.”
Mr. Home then went to the fireplace once more, and after
turning over the coals again with his bare hand, brought out
the largest piece in the grate. It was a piece of coke having
the shape of a rough pyramid; the base of it nearly covered
the palm of his hand and the fingers, and it was about eight
inches high. This lump of coke was so hot, that as he walked
round the nursery with it on the palm of his hand, the light
from the coke threw a glow over the walls of the room, which
glow was clearly visible in spite of the fair amount of gaslight
tending to obscure it. He carried this lump of coke in one
hand for three or four minutes, then dropped it into the fen¬
der, and so ended my first and best seance with Mr. Home,
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 26, 1875.
AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN DARK CIRCLli MANIFESTATIONS IN THE
LIGHT.
Early in January, 1869, I tried some experiments at Mrs.
Marshall’s, at Paddington, in the attempt to abolish dark
seances by the use of monochromatic light. I constructed a
dark lantern, with a paraffine flame inside, the light from
which flame was made to pass through glass troughs filled with
various solutions, before the rays entered the room in which
the seance was held ; for-example, in one glass trough I some¬
times placed a solution of ammonio-sulphate of copper, a salt
which is of a beautiful blue colour, and in the other glass
trough I placed a solution of alum, which is colourless.
Solutions of alum have the power of cutting off most of the
heat rays which accompany light, but are not visible to the
eye, for the dark rays from the sun and other luminous sources
contain eight or nine times more warmth than those rays
which can be seen by the eye. The alum thus cut off most of
the heat rays ; the warmest of the visible rays, namely, the
red, yellow, and green, were interrupted and absorbed by the
ammonio-sulphate of copper. Thus I obtained a rich blue
light, so cool as to be incapable of producing a tithe of the
molecular disturbance which is invariably set up in material
substances by the action of ordinary white light. I first tried
this light in the’presence of a large circle of friends, among
whom were Mrs. Yarley, Mr. G. B. Tapp, a member of the
Institution of Civil Engineers, $nd several scientific witnesses.
Great shadows were seen moving over the walls of the dimly illu¬
minated room while my lamp was standing on the floor behind
us at one side of the room. So far the matter was thought to
be a success, until I looked round to see whether anything
caused these shadows, and I saw Mrs. Marshall’s cat walking
backwards and forwards before the blue glass, and rubbing
against the front of my lamp as if it had been placed-there
for her special entertainment. We did not get the direct
spirit voice from any part of the room illuminated by the
flame, but once in the course of the seance I saw a guitar
floating in the air, between my eyes and the illuminated part
of the wall; this circumstance I now attribute, however, more
to the harmonious character of the circle, than to the beneficial
effects of the monochromatic light. I have since discovered
that the supply of the right mental conditions at seances has
infinitely more power in bringing about manifestations than
any such physical modifications as these; in a circle with
thoroughly affectionate and truthful people, where such a pro¬
position as that of tying the medium or holding each other
would be thought degrading to the character of everybody
present, manifestations are witnessed in the light which
cannot be obtained with equal power under other conditions.
Those who wish to make headway in the investigation of the
nature of spirit life and spirit power, should begin by reform¬
ing their own hearts and their own lives, instead of playing
with pots and kettles, lamps, and ammonio-sulphate of
copper.
PAID MEDIUMS.
At this time, that is to say early in January, 1869,1 visited
all the mediums who advertised in the spiritual magazines,
for there was then no newspaper in the movement; and I
must say that I felt greatly indebted to paid mediums. I
could not expect private mediums to sit for me whenever I
desired to see manifestations, and I felt that to obtain practi¬
cal proof of the reality of the life beyond the grave was
worthy of any amount of expenditure. Consequently, if the
vitality of the medium was exhausted, and his or her premises
were used in displaying these phenomena, I felt that the
mediums were as much entitled to recompense as the ministers
or clergy of any denomination; indeed, rather more so,
because mediums can prove that they actually possess some
powers connected with the realms of spirit, whereas in the
case of preachers, we have merely their own assertions backed
by hereditary authority, which we are not allowed to examine
or to question.
me. herne’s clairvoyance.
In this month of January I first met Mr. Herne, and was
the first person for whom he ever sat professionally. I find
the following remark about him in my shorthand diary:—
“ Mr. Herne is a promising medium, about nineteen or twenty
years of age. He says that he sees spirits; they are dressed
in loose robes, drawn in round the neck and having a girdle at
the waist,. Some of these- spirits are always near mediums,
making passes over them and showering down flowers. Mr.
Herne says that he sees coloured auras round all people ; a
green aura he does not like, for it implies there is something
bad in the person. Blue is symbolical of wisdom, and red of
love,”
This first seance of mine with him took place at 3, Tyssen-
place, Shacklewell-green, not far from the rooms in which we
meet this evening.
STRANGE MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
One evening this month of January, 1869, Mrs. Varley
called upon my young German friend and his wife. After
casting his eyes' upon Mrs. Yarley, and muttering a few
remarks, he abruptly left the room, which was thought to be
strange behaviour. He had never seen her before. After the
lapse of about half an hour, he returned and fell down in a
trance, in which state he remained all the evening. Mr.
Tapp, and, I think, Mr. Keningale Cook were present on the
occasion. A few days later the young German went to Mrs.
Yarley’s by invitation, and had not entered the room above
two minutes when he passed into a state of insensibility, and
sank to the floor. It was thus accidentally discovered that
he could never remain in Mrs. Yarley’s presence in a con¬
scious state, although she had not made any attempt to
mesmerise him, and nobody on the first occasion knew what
was the matter with him. As he was rather sensitive to
public opinion, he took it into his head that he was being
laughed at because he could not enter Mrs. Yarley’s presence
without losing consciousness, and this thought was intoler¬
able to one who had been an officer in the Prussian army.
He accordingly screwed up his courage, and paid a third
visit to Beckenham, when he fell down insensible as before.
He averred for weeks afterwards that on that occasion every¬
body else in the room went into a trance, whilst he was the
only one who remained in a rational state. This third experi¬
ence frightened him, and from that time he abstained from
going anywhere where he thought he might meet Mrs. Yarley.
One evening he was at one of the Koyal Institution lectures
while she was present, but on the opposite side of the theatre :
directly he saw her, the sleepy look came over his eyes, and
he averted his gaze ; after a time ho rose from his seat, and
went out. At subsequent meetings this power of Mrs. Yarley
over him gradually died away, until he was no longer mes-
merically affected by her presence. I have never seen or
heard of another case of mesmerism resembling this one,
CLAIRVOYANT AND TRANCE MANIFESTATIONS.
On Sunday, Eeb. 21, 1869, at one of the sittings of our
private circle at Beckenham, Mrs. Varley passed into the clair¬
voyant state, and saw the departed relatives of some of the
sitters present; it was a deeply interesting seance.
By this time I had discovered that high teachings or wise
revelations scarcely ever accompanied powerful physical mani¬
festations, so for some months I gave time to the study
of trance mediumship, attending dozens of seances.
At first I saw only the beauty of the messages, but
as experience was gained, I discovered how much the
communications were coloured by the thoughts of the
medium, and I found that I could get no evidence of spirit
identity, or of the presence of the spirits of departed persons
known to me, from those mediums to whom I had access; and
that the best ideas in the best messages had been equalled by
writers upon religious subjects who had no medial powers.
Consequently, after some months of such examination, I was
obliged to go back to the physical manifestations, in the
attempt to discover some of the laws and conditions governing
spiritual phenomena ; for the same laws and conditions,
when discovered, apply to a great extent to the trance and
higher forms of mediumship, but could not be discovered
in the first instance by the examination of trance and clairvoy¬
ance, the effects of disturbing conditions and favouring influ¬
ences being so much more intangible than when dealing with
physics.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
I have already mentioned that notwithstanding the hun¬
dreds of seances I have attended with celebrated mediums, on
only two occasions have I had any evidence coming home to
myself of spirit identity. The first case has already been
stated, so the second example may be introduced here.
One evening, about five years ago, at a seance at the resi¬
dence of the Bev. J. Murray Spear, near Bryanstone-square,
I met an American lady, Mrs. C. Anderson, who was well
acquainted with many leading Spiritualists in the United
States, and whose personal experiences, narrated to me that
evening, were of considerable interest. She is the same lady
who, a few months ago, published an account in. The Spirit¬
ualist setting forth how a spirit light illuminated the road, as
she and friends were driving home in the Isle of Wight, on a
pitchy dark night.
After our first meeting she went to Heidelberg, and I saw
March 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
149
and heard no more of her for a very long time, until she re¬
turned from Germany, and one evening asked me to call upon
her at Pimlico. She told me how she had been developed as
a test writing medium, and in the course of the evening her
hand wrote—“ Your uncle James is here.” I said that it was
true I had an uncle James, but the spirits were out in their
reckoning, for he was not dead. It was then written—” He
was here a few minutes agof while his body was asleep ; he is
dangerously ill, and it will be a narrow shave if he recovers.”
I replied that so far as I knew there was nothing the matter
with him.
That Sunday night I narrated the circumstance at home on
my return, and was told that my uncle James, who was a
farmer in the country, was well enough when last heard from,
so the spirits of Mrs. Anderson must be in error.
Next morning (Monday) a telegram arrived stating that he
was dangerously ill, and before the night of Monday he de¬
parted this life.
Mrs. Anderson knew nothing of me or my relatives. I knew
nothing of my uncle’s illness, and he was not in my mind
when the message was given, so this is a fair instance of spirit
power revealing facts not previously in the mind of the
medium, or in the thoughts of any of the sitters.
The recent revelations proving that the spirits of mortals
can travel during the sleep of their bodies, tend still further to
remove this case from the region of accidental coincidence.
THE FOUNDING OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
In the spring of 1869, interesting conferences in connection
with Spiritualism were held regularly at Lawson’s Rooms,
Gower-street, London. Some of the foremost workers in the
movement, such as Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. A. R.
Wallace, Mr. Coleman, Mr. Bnmore Jones, Mr. S. C. Hall, and
others, addressed the public from its platform. Most of the
interesting experiences related at those meetings are now lost,
because no records were taken except shorthand notes of one
or two by Mr. Tapp, which may or may not be now in his pos¬
session. Several of the speakers therefore complained from the
platform of the want of a newspaper in the spiritual movement
to publish records of such meetings, so as we had no newspaper
at that time, there being nothing but monthly periodicals
filled with magazine literature, I resolved to bring out a news¬
paper which should give news and reports of meetings, and
furthermore should be adapted to meet the requirements of
minds of a scientific order. The Spiritualist newspaper was
accordingly first published in the course of 1869, as a fort¬
nightly journal, with the announcement in its first leading
article that it would be brought out weekly as soon- as such a
step was considered to be reasonable. Afterwards, in the
natural course' of events, other newspapers came into the
field, but when the system was introduced by them into our
movement of asking money from the public to keep them
going, I held aloof from the subscription system because I did
not like asking for money, and had never had anything to do
with any newspaper which was a financial burden to the
general public. The consequence was, that for three years
thousands upon thousands of pounds of the money subscribed
with the best intentions by Spiritualists were sunk in compe¬
tition with me, without even my private friends being told
what heavy financial injuries were thus inflicted on me, and
I worked for and paid out for years single-handed all the
expenses thus quite unintentionally and with the best of
motives inflicted upon me. I do not say this by way of com¬
plaint against anybody, for if I had spoken of the injury the
public were doing me, they would probably have provided a re¬
medy, as a few kind friends have recently done. It was my own
fault for not speaking out sooner; I kept silence for three or
four years, in consequence of being full of utopian ideas about
Spiritualism being too sacred a subject for the introduction of
the grievances or sufferings of individuals.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
My later experiences are probably well known to most of
you, because so many of them have been published. Two or
three years ago I saw that dissension and disunion were
springing up in Spiritualism, and that these might have been
nipped in the bud had there been any public body elected by
free vote to deal impartially with the questions at issue, since
it was evident that the decision of solitary individuals on such
matters would carry little weight. The existence of an elected
court of appeal, should anybody ask for one, would be a pro¬
tection to good workers, and a terror to evil-doers of all kinds,
who previously could impute personal motives to any solitary
individuals who might try to check any malpractices. Or¬
ganisation also would strengthen the movement, and give
Spiritualists the power of managing their own public
business.
In April, 1873,1 accordingly published an article suggesting
national organisation, and united friendly action amongst
Spiritualists, sketching out much the same scheme which is
now at work, and at the Liverpool Conference, towards the
close of the same year, Mr. Chapman and myself read papers
advocating the same views. The result of the proceedings of
that Conference has been the formation of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, which I believe to be one of the
best steps taken of late years for the welfare of the movement,
and to rest upon the solid foundations of honour, truth, and
usefulness.
In the course of my narrative this evening, I have made
reference to no more than a small fraction of the number of
seances which I attended, while practically examining some of
the foundations upon which modern Spiritualism rests, before
throwing my life into the movement, and starting The Spirit¬
ualist newspaper. Records of many of those seances would be
of no interest to you; in fact, a very large amount of time has
to be sacrificed in observing tangled masses of phenomena, in
order to gain a very small amount of newly discovered scien¬
tific law. Progress in building up a sound philosophy upon
the facts of modern Spiritualism would be considerably
facilitated if disbelivers and non-spiritualists were not
admitted to any of the seances at which the more advanced
phenomena are produced, until they have made them¬
selves acquainted with the simpler facts of the subject,
and fully understand the conditions to be observed at
spirit circles. Would the Astronomer Royal place the great
equatorial telescope at Greenwich Observatory in the hands of
a man who knew nothing of astronomy? He would rather
tell the tyro to begin his inquiry at home with simpler
and rougher instruments, until he understood the conditions
of working, until he was able to appreciate the value of
better appliances, and could see the unwisdom of employing
delicate and valuable instruments for the performance of rough
elementary work.
THE DISCUSSION.
At the close of the reading of the foregoing paper,
The Chairman, in a few complimentary remarks, said that
the thanks of the meeting were due to Mr. Harrison for the
interesting paper he had just read. He (Captain James) was
but a recent investigator into the nature of Spiritualism, a
subject into which he had been inquiring for eight months
only, but he fully believed in all the phenomena which he had
seen during that period. He had had great advantages in
studying the subject, because during a large portion of his
life he had made himself practically acquainted with the sub¬
ject of mesmerism. When he first began to inquire into
Spiritualism he asked who had the largest practical knowledge
of the subject, and some one had told him Mr. Harrison and
Mr. Tapp ; he therefore thought that Mr. Tapp ought to have
occupied the chair that evening, and he hoped that he would
do so during the discussion.
Mr. Tapp said that his modesty would have deterred him
from taking the chair, and he was sure that every one present
was pleased to see Captain James presiding over the meeting
that evening. He did not know, before the paper was read,
that Mr. Harrison had kept such exhaustive notes of those
earlier seances /*he (Mr. Tapp) had been present at many of
them. If it had not been for Mr. Harrison, he would never
have inquired into Spiritualism at all; in fact, he kept no
records 'of the earlier seances he attended, but after a time
he discovered the vast importance of the subject, also its many
difficulties, then saw the value of accurate records of facts;
he had, therefore, made careful notes of everything he had
seen during the last four years, and possibly his records
would some day be published. (Hear, hear.) If Mr. Harrison
were to go further with his account, and narrate the chief
things he had witnessed during the past five years, the
narrative would be so very startling to those who knew
nothing about Spiritualism, that they would most likely
consider it unworthy of belief; only those who had some
practical knowledge of the subject and had been educated
by experience to a certain point, could receive and appre¬
ciate the value df the more remarkable phenomena. After
a very short experience he discovered there was no royal
road to obtaining a knowledge of. Spiritualism. Many people
thought they only had to sit round a table, and their departed
friends and relatives—the spirits of the just made perfect—
would return to talk to them; that was very pretty in theory,
it looked beautiful in print, and sounded grand when spoken
from the lips of platform orators, but hard experience did
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 26, 1875,
not bear out the truth of the assertion. Inquirers had to
fight with many difficulties, some of which were even calculated
to frighten and deter them, so that it required both courage and
perseverance to proceed, and a great deal had to be observed
before the first grain of truth was obtained, but when ob¬
tained, it was of all the. more value, and served as a step¬
ping-stone to the discovery of other truths; he wished
therefore to impress upon inquirers that it was only by
hard work and strict research that they could learn the
real nature of these wonderful phenomena. What the spirits
were, where they came from, and the means they employed
to produce their manifestations were still matters of mystery,
contravening what our men of science at present understand
to be the laws of nature. Nothing conclusive was yet known
as to the way in which the materialised spirit form was built
up; the spirits said that they took some of the atoms com¬
posing it from the body of the medium, some from the sitters
present, some from the atmosphere, but it seemed to him that
the spirits were as much in the dark about these mani¬
festations as were the mortal observers, so that knowledge had
to be worked for on both sides. Many things were done in
common life that could not be explained, such as the raising
of the arm in obedience to the action of the will. It was only
by painstaking research on earth, and the acquisition of know¬
ledge by the spirits on the other side that the mystery could
be unravelled. Inquirers should not be disgusted by first
failures and difficulties, but have patience, and make careful
observations. Mr. Harrison had given the last seven or eight
years of his life in order to gain a large and unbiassed
knowledge of the facts of the subject, and had stuck
to his task well all the time, the work being on his part a pure
labour of love, and every fact of value he seemed to have care¬
fully recorded; consequently, he had a most extensive know¬
ledge of the subject, and perhaps there was hardly anybody
in the whole of the spiritual movement who knew so much
about the proved facts of Spiritualism. He would therefore
propose a vote of thanks to him for the excellent paper he
had read. (Applause.)
Mr. G. W. Forbes Playfair said that he had listened with
pleasure to the paper, and rose to second the proposed vote of
thanks. The narrative givex# to them that evening had been
clear and unbiassed. From what experience he (Mr. Playfair)
had had in Spiritualism, he saw that its votaries had different
religious beliefs, and he wished that Mr. Harrison had said
something upon the religious aspects of the question. He
should like to ask him whether Spiritualism did or did not
tend to alter the current beliefs of the day. There seemed to
be as many different sects and creeds inside Spiritualism as
there were outside; had Mr. Harrison formed any opinions on
this subject ? He had much pleasure in seconding the motion.
The motion was then put by the Chairman, and it was
carried unanimously.
Mr. Harrison, in returning thanks, said: My thanks are due
to your society for the invitation to read the paper here this
evening. The Dalston Association is the oldest and best-
managed local society in London; it has managed its own
affairs well, and has proved itself competent to deal with all
the difficulties of the position, so that it has never been a
financial burden to the movement. In reply to the question
of Mr. Playfair, I think that Spiritualism has a powerful reli¬
gious influence of a negative character; that is to say, that
when people get thoroughly interested in its facts it tends to
sweep away narrow-minded notions which previously were
dying a slower natural death, and it leaves the mind free for
the reception of new ideas. Thus it acts as a mental stimulus,
and promotes freedom of thought, which in itself is a great
blessing, for I lay it down as an unquestionable truth that
every man ought to have the most unbounded freedom of
thought, and that the more we permit other people to do our
thinking for us, and to govern us as they please, the more
shall we suffer, and the lower will be the level of national
happiness. These principles hold good both with respect to
nations and to individuals. But as to the positive teachings
of Spiritualism, I think that many of the assertions uttered
from our platforms in the name of Spiritualism cannot be
substantiated by facts, and that some of the utterances can
be absolutely contradicted by an appeal to the real circum¬
stances of the case. Directly people begin to think freely, and
to get rid of old notions, new ones spring up naturally in
their places; these new ones are more adapted to the require¬
ments of the age, consequently these “ ideas of individuals ” get
put forward as “ the teachings of Spiritualism.” The messages
through mediums are as a general rule tremendously coloured,
quite unconsciously to themselves, by their own opinions; in
fact, if any spirit communicates who teaches what they think
he ought not to teach, they drive him away and call him
wicked. Through a teetotal medium the spirits teach teeto-
talism; through another medium, like Mrs. Marshall, for
instance, they will recommend bottled stout, so in the middle
of all this fog and perplexity, we have to separate that
which comes from a spiritual source from that which cornea
from the medium, and long years of research will have to pass
before this can be done with anything like certainty. The
teachings through trance mediums are more true to nature
and to the inner responses of the human heart than many of the
artificial creeds of the day, hence they go home to the hearts
of the listeners as infinitely superior to the ordinary
sermons of this era. To judge by another standard,
namely, the free-thinking utterances of the most intelligent
minds who have reverently sought after religious truth by the
exercise of their normal powers, the same teachings in better
language, and supported by more cogent reasoning will be
found in their books than in any of the utterances of trance
mediums. Thus, I take it that the first religious effect of
Spiritualism is to clear the ground of weeds, and to promote
free thought, after which the facts of Spiritualism are too few
at present to warrant much positive teaching; but a large
amount of positive teaching which has sprung up arises from
the exercise of normal common-sense thought, but very little
of it from the spirits of the departed.
Mr. Parkes then proposed a vote of thanks to Captain James
for the able manner in which he had occupied the chair. This
was seconded by Mr. T. Blyton, and carried with acclamation.
The meeting then broke up.
Messes. Peck and Sadler, mediums, of Cardiff, have
dissolved partnership, and Mr. Sadler has set up as a pro¬
fessional medium at 157, Bute Docks, Cardiff.
Mesmerism in India.—A gentleman writes from India
—“ Mesmeric phenomena are plentiful among all classes of
natives, but the subject requires digging up and arranging,
and few in India have time for such things, even if they had
the desire to investigate. We generally work longer hours
than you do at home, urged by the ever present desire to get
away from the country as soon as possible, yet the climate on
the whole is not unhealthy.”
Pictures op Spirits.—Miss Adelaide Claxton, who has
no personal knowledge of Spiritualism, is nevertheless the
best painter in this country of pictures relating to super¬
natural subjects. The Constable of the Tower of London
recently gave her facilities for sketching the interior of the
Torture Chamber there, the result being that she has peopled
it with the shades of the departed, including Queen Elizabeth,
Lady Jane Grey, William the Conqueror, and nearly twenty
other celebrities, all of them accurate historical portraits. This
painting is now on view at the Dudley Gallery, Egyptian
Hall, Piccadilly; it has been purchased by Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, and will probably be exhibited at one of the soirees
of the National Association of Spiritualists, before it is
sent home to him at Manchester. The Queen newspaper
describes it as the best picture in the Dudley Gallery
exhibited by a lady artist. It says:—“ Of the very large
contingent, over seventy in number, of lady exhibitors,
Adelaide Claxton exhibits the most remarkable work in
No. 450, A Warder's Dream in the Tower of London.
In the left foreground of the picture the warder is seated, with
head thrown back, clasping his knees, and fast asleep, whilst
in his “ dream ” pass before him in odd medley those historical
characters whose names are so indissolubly connected with
the grand old Tower where he performs his duties; on the left
the cruel and crafty King Bichard III. is pushing forward the
two unhappy little princes into that Tower, from which they
were never to depart alive; in the centre is Lady Jane Grey in
thoughtful attitude, and in the centre also are the block and
axe, which have played so conspicuous a part in the Tower
annals. On the right are the sensual and powerful monarch
Henry VIII., his ill-used queen Katharine of Arragon, Anne
Boleyn; whilst a host of other notabilities—kings, princes, and
nobles,—appear as if by magic as one peers into the deeper
shadows in the picture. Irrespective of the interesting his¬
torical associations which throng to the mind in a subject of
this kind, a very considerable amount of technical skill is
necessary in the management of the light and shade in such a
work ; and Miss Claxton has really made quite her own the
peculiar branch of art comprehended in what may be termed
ghost-painting.”
March 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
THE EXPERIMENTAL SITTING WITH MRS. FAY.
BY EDWARD W. COX, SEBJEAXT-AT-IAW.
I hate read Mr. Crookes’ account of this very in¬
teresting scientific experiment, and confirm it in every
particular. I am not sufficiently acquainted with elec¬
trical apparatus to he enabled to verify the sufficiency
of the test machinery, but the men of science present,
who know it well, and examined it with care, affirmed
it to be perfect, and I can answer for it that the indi¬
cator gave no sign of the slightest movement on the
part of Mrs. Fay until she fainted in her chair, and
then the fact was instantly shown to us by the motion
of the ray, thus apparently confirming the accuracy of
it previously. But my present purpose is to direct
attention to a most perplexing fact.
Mr. Crookes states, in his excellent report, that the
full form was seen by myself and another. It was so.
When my book was handed to me the curtain was
opened to an extent that enabled me to see distinctly
the outline of the figure by whom it was presented. It
was the perfect form of Mrs. Fay—the hair, the face,
the blue silk dress, the arms bare below the elbow, and
the pearl armlets! At that moment the instrument
gave no signal of any break of contact with the wires
her hands were grasping, and the form appeared on the
side of the curtain opposite to that where she had been
seated, and distant at least eight feet from her chair,
so that if it were taken down by herself she must have
parted from the wires for the purpose. Yet did they betray
no sign of broken contact. Another witness also saw the
blue dress and the armlets when his book was handed
to him; and neither of us named what we had seen to
the other until after the sitting, so that they were dis¬
tinct impressions upon each mind separately.
Here is the mystery, of which I should like to
receive some rational explanation. Plainly the form
was either Mrs. Fay herself or her double. But then
the duplication of the dress is a grave difficulty. If
her double and not herself, it goes far to support the
suggestion I have made in another place, that the phe¬
nomena are produced by the spirit of the medium.
But suppose it to have been herself, as I am strongly
inclined to conclude, the question comes how the com¬
munication was maintained between the wires so as to
exhibit no disturbance of contact. Can it be that her
spirit-arms (if I may be allowed the term) maintained
the electrical connection while her body was moving
about ? Difficult as this may be to comprehend, it
appears to me more probable than that there should be
a double of a blue silk dress and pearl bracelets. At
all events, the fact itself is one of great importance, on
which opinions of thoughtful investigators would be
desirable.
I may add to Mr. Crookes’ narrative that a large
clock was taken from under the glass case on the
chimney-piece, and handed to us, and that the three
books presented to their three authors were shelved
in different parts of a large library. Mine was on
a shelf only to be reached by standing on a chair. It
had, however, the name on the back of it, and there¬
fore could have been found readily by a person looking
for it with a good light, though not easily in the dark.
But the little volume on Spectrum Analysis has not
the author’s name on the back, but only on the side, and
any person looking for it would have required to take
down all the books on the shelves and examined each
separately, and there were some hundreds of them. As
for the book of the traveller, it was published by him
many years ago, and the fact was forgotten by all of us
and almost by himself, for he has since devoted himself
entirely to scientific literature of another kind, and it is
not at all probable that Mrs. Fay, to whom he was a
perfect stranger, knew better than his friends present
what he had published in his early youth. It is
further to be observed that these three books were
taken from three different shelves, and selected from
among a multitude in darkness and not in light. It
would have occupied any of us half an hour with a
lamp to find what was produced to us in the dark in
about three minutes. At the conclusion of the experi¬
ment, we found in each place the vacancy in the rack
of books from which the three volumes had been
taken. Experiments should now be directed to ascertain
if the body of the medium remains in the chair during
the phenomena. Could not her feet be shown outside
the curtain as they are in her cabinet sittings ?
Edward W, Cox.
15th March, 1875.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXIX.
The argument previously printed was continued with¬
out intermission.—.
We have shown you what to the enlightened mind
is the true attitude of the spirit. This fearless thinking
out of the way to God by those who are enabled to
attempt it, will infallibly lead to what we unceasingly
proclaim, a spiritual, refined, and elevated religion, in
place of a literal, dogmatic interpretation of the words
of your sacred records. For all utterances of spirits
through man have a spiritual interpretation as well as
the material one which meets the eye. And it is this
spiritual interpretation which is entirely missed by a
materialistic age. Man has gradually built around the
teachings of Jesus a wall of deduction, and speculation,
and material comment, similar to that with which the
Pharisee had surrounded the Mosaic law. The tendency
has increasingly been to do this, in proportion as man
has lost sight of the spiritual world. And so it has
come to pass that we find hard, cold materialism de¬
duced from teachings which were intended to breathe
spirituality, and to do away with sensuous ritual.
It is our task to do for Christianity what Jesus did
for Judaism. We would take the old forms and spirit¬
ualise their meaning, and infuse into them new life.
Resurrection rather than abolition is what we desire.
We say again, that we do not abolish one jot or one
tittle of the teaching which the Christ gave to the
world. We do but wipe away man’s material glosses,
and sh6w you the hidden spiritual meaning which he
has missed. We strive to raise you in your daily life
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously. fdr;the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature tliat
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remaiqs throughout the same.—Ed.
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 26, 1875.
more and more from the dominion of the body, and to
show you more and more of the mystic symbolism with
which spirit life is permeated. They take but a shal¬
low view of our teaching who pin themselves to the
letter. We would raise you from the life of the body
to that which shall be to you the fit approach to the
state disembodied. There is but a glimpse possible as
yet; but the time will come when you will be able to
see, as we cannot explain to you in your present state,
the true dignity of man’s higher life even on the earth
Sphere, and the hidden mysteries with which that life is
teeming.
Before you can reach so far you must be content to
learn that there is a spiritual meaning underlying every¬
thing ; that your Bible is full of it; man’s interpreta¬
tions, and definitions, and glosses being but the material
husk which enshrines the kernel of divine truth. Were
we to throw away this husk the tender kernel would
wither and die. So we content ourselves with pointing
out, as you can bear and understand, the living verity
which underlies the external fact with which you are
familiar.
This was the mission of the Christ. He claimed for
Himself that fulfilment of the law, not its abolition or
abrogation, was His intent. He pointed out the truth
which was at the root of the Mosaic commandment.
He stripped off the rags of Pharisaical ritual, the glosses
of Babbinical speculation, and laid bare the divine
truth that was beneath all, the grand principles divinely
inspired which man had well-nigh buried. He’was not
only a religious but a social reformer-; and the grand
business of His life was to elevate the people, spirit and
body, to expose pretenders, and to strip off the mask of
hypocrisy; to take the foot of the despot from the neck
of the struggling slave, and to make man free by
virtue of that. truth which He came from God to de¬
clare. “Ye shall know the truth,” He told His
followers, “ and the truth shall make you free : and ye
shall be free indeed.”
He reasoned of life and death and eternity; of the
true nobility and dignity of man’s nature; of the way
to progressive knowledge of God. He came as the
Great Fulfiller of the law; the man who showed, as
never man showed before, the end for which the law
was given—the amelioration of humanity. He taught
men to look into the depths of their hearts, to test their
lives, to try their motives, and to weigh all they did by
the one ascertained balance—the fruits of life as the
test of religion. He told men to be humble, merciful,
truthful, pure, self-denying,honest in heart and intent;
and He set before them a living example of the life
which He preached.
He was the great social reformer, whose object was
at least as much to benefit man corporeally, and to
reveal to him a salvation from bigotry and selfishness,
and narrow-mindedness in this life, as it was to reveal
glimpses of a better life in the hereafter. He preached
the religion of daily life, the moral progress of the
spirit in the path of daily duty forward to a higher
knowledge. Bepentance for the past, amendment and
progress in the future, summed up most of his teaching.
He found a world buried in ignorance, at the mercy of
an unscrupulous priesthood in matters religious; under
the absolute sway of a tyrant in matters political.
He taught liberty in both ; but liberty without license;
the liberty of a responsible spirit with duties to God
and'to itself; of a spirit corporeally enshrined with a
corresponding duty to its brethren in the flesh.. He
laboured to show the true dignity of man. He would
elevate him to the dignity of the truth, the truth which
should make him free. He was no respecter of persons.
He chose His associates and His apostles from the
mean and poor. He lived amongst the common
people of them, with them, in their homes; teaching
them simple lessons of truth which they needed and
which they could receive. He went but little among
those whose eyes were blinded by the mists of ortho¬
doxy, respectability, or so-called human wisdom. He
fired the hearts of His listeners with a yearning for
something nobler, better, higher than they yet
possessed; and He told them how to get it.
The gospel of humanity is the gospel of Jesus Christ.
It is the only gospel that man needs; the only one that
can reach his wants and minister to his necessities.
We continue to preach that same evangel. By
commission from the same God, by authority and inspi¬
ration from the same source, do we come now as
apostles of this heaven-sent gospel. We declare truths
the same as Jesus taught. We preach Hia gospel,
purified from the glosses and misinterpretations which
man has gathered around it. We would spiritualise
that which man has hidden under the heap of materi¬
alism.
We would bring forth the spirit truth from the grave
in which man has buried it, and would tell to the lis¬
tening souls of men that it lives still; the simple yet
grand truth of man’s progressive destiny, of God’s un¬
ceasing care, of the spirit’s un slumbering watch over
incarnated souls.
The burdens that a dogmatic priesthood has bound
upon men’s backs, we fling them to the winds;
the dogmas which have hampered the soul, and
dragged down its aspirations, we tear them asunder,
and bid the soul go free. Our mission is the continua¬
tion of that old teaching which man has so strangely
altered; its source identical; its course parallel; its
end the same. + Impeeator.
I inquired whether I rightly understood that the
worlc of teaching, a section of which is under the direc¬
tion of Imperator, derived its mission from Christ.
You understand aright. I have before said that I
derive my mission, and am influenced in my work, by
a spirit who has passed beyond the spheres of work
into the higher heaven of contemplation. * * * Jesus
Christ is now arranging His plans for the gathering in
of His people, for the further revelation of the truth,
as well as for the purging away of the erroneous beliefs
which haVe accumulated in the past.
I have heard something of this from other sources. Is
this then the return of Christ ?
It is the spiritual return. There will be no such
physical return as man has dreamed of. This will be
the return to His people, by the voice of His Messengers
speaking to those whose ears are open; even as He
himself said “ He that hath ears to hear, let him hear ;
he that is able to receive it, let him receive it.”
Is this message coming to many 1
Yes, to many it is being made known that God is
now specially influencing man at this epoch. We may
not say more. May the blessing of ^he Supreme rest
on you. _j. Imperator.
Mr. J. J. Morse has written to the editor of Common
Sense, San Francisco, announcing his intention to pay a second
visit to the United States in 1876, in company with Mrs.
Morse.
March 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
§&ebteto.
Son, Remember. An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul,
B.A., Rector of St. Alban’s, Worcester. H. K. Lewis,
136, Gower-street.
There are but a few indications of the fact that the
thinkers in society, begin to suspect that there is more
in our spiritualistic researches than they at first gave
credit for, or than the unthinking still believe. Among
medical doctors, Messrs. Richardson and Radcliffe
favour us with their speculations concerning the spirit
body within us and around us—speculations which
hover so closely over the facts of Spiritualism as to
render it clear that those very facts have set the writers
speculating in the direction of the spiritual nature of
man in opposition to the theories which explain all his
afiections, hopes, fears, and intelligence by brain ganglia
and their cerebration.
Whilst welcoming these lagging thinkers into our
circle, we cannot but remark on the moral cowardice
which rendered them so quick to ignore and so slow to
inquire, and which, even in their tardy inquiry, ex¬
hibits itself in tbe cautious avoidance of all reference
to the subject which gave them the food for their specu¬
lations, and some of their facts. Dr. Radcliffe’s paper
in the Contemporary Review is a paper strongly assert¬
ing all that Spiritualists hold, and have for twenty years
held, concerning the existence and functions of the
spirit body as a distinct and surviving attendant on the
flesh body, but Dr. Radclifie carefully avoids even the
slightest reference to Spiritualism and Spiritualists, who
taught him to think at all about his subject; for Dr.
Radcliffe must make believe that he is original, and, as
a presumed man of science, he stands in dread of the
laughter of his ignorant compeers of science.
The theologians also have in some instances hovered
about the subject, of which the Rev. Mr. Bickersteth’s
Hades, published three or four years ago, is an
instance. But no writer on the religious question of
man’s life beyond the grave, has handled the subject so
courageously and acutely as the author of the volume
which is here introduced to our readers. Premising his
knowledge that the doctrine regarding man’s future life
is at variance with that commonly accepted by English
Churchmen, he boldly maintains that Holy Writ, and
all the indications which can be drawn from the obser¬
vation of God’s ways in nature generally, and in man
specially, point to the continued living of the human
soul in a state of progressive improvement for an un¬
defined time before the final judgment is passed upon
him, and his place in the mansions of eternity is fixed;
that, in short, this life is not the only life of probation.
In a preliminary paragraph the author speaks thus of
the aim of his publication:—“This essay is based
altogether on teaching of Holy Scripture. Groundless
speculation is avoided. It is designed to prove that
man’s eternal destiny is not definitely fixed at the hour
of death; that the disembodied soul retains its con¬
sciousness, and therefore memory; and that the per¬
sistency alike of the habits of thought and feeling con¬
tracted in the flesh, and of the unvarying designs of
God indicate a condition where the selfish shall realise
that they have sown to the flesh, and the earnest Chris¬
tian shall attain to that perfect holiness, without which
no man shall see the Lord.”
The body of the work consists of an “ Introduction,”
in which are exhibited the beliefs held concerning the
fate of the soul after departure from the body by the
various churches. Then follow chapters headed thus:—
“ Death merely a Dark Tunnelthe “ Manifold Wis¬
dom of God,” in which the existence of what we call
“evil” is most ingeniously explained; in the chapter
on the “ Analogy of Nature” the probabilities of our
continued identity and life after death are dwelt upon
eloquently and positively; then follows a chapter on
the “ Intermediate State,” which will delight all high-
thinking Spiritualists ; the chapter “ What is Written”
is a spiritualistic reading of the passages in Scripture
which seem to involve the immediate decision of the
soul’s fate after death, concerning which believers in
the mediaeval creed on this subject will be astonished
to find how much the author has to say per contra;
the. “Soul’s Discipline” is the heading of the sixth
chapter, and is at once most cogent in argument and
touching in development; the “Conclusion,” forming
the seventh chapter, is designed to meet objections
made to the doctrine of continued life and progress
after death, and to demonstrate the good influence
it is calculated to exert. The entire work is written
in the best style of statement and argumentation; the
author’s meaning is given with complete lucidity and
absence of turgidity. and—what so often attends the
exposition of proofs drawn from Holy Writ—cant, Such
a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists,
and especially by those who seek or find in Spiritualism
a firm.basis for moral and religious teaching.
AN ORIENTAL TRANCE MEDIUM.
BY XENIXGALE COOX, B.A.
Perhaps some day, when the accounts of modern medium-
ship slacken a little, so as to leave you with a corner of your
paper to spare, you may be able to find room for the following
interesting narrative. It is some three-and-twenty centuries
old, and is to be found in Platp's Republic, Book x., c. 16.
I will tell you the story of a brave man (Eras), the son of
Armenius, by descent a Pamphylian. who happening on a
time to die in battle, when the dead were on the tenth day
carried off, already corrupted, was taken up sound; and being
carried home, as he was about to be buried on the twelfth
day, when laid on the funeral pile, revived; and being
revived, he told what he saw in the other state, and said, that
after his soul left the body, it went with many pthers, and
that they came to a certain mysterious, hallowed place, where
there were two chasms in the earth, near to each other, and
two other openings in the heavens opposite to them, and that
the judges sat between these ; that when they gave judgment
they commanded the just to go on the right hand and upwards
through the heaven, having fitted marks on the front of those
that had been judged; but the unjust they commanded to the
left, and downwards, and these likewise had behind them
marks of all that they had done. But when he came before
the judges, they said he ought to be a messenger to men con¬
cerning things there, and they commanded him to hear and
contemplate everything therein; and that he saw there, through
two openings, one of the heaven and one of the earth, the
souls departing, after they were there judged; and through
the other two openings he saw, rising through the one out of
the earth, souls full of squalidness and dust; and through the
other, he saw other souls descending pure from heaven; and
that on their arrival from time to time they seemed as if they
came from a long journey, and that they gladly went to rest
themselves in the meadow, as in a public assembly, and
such as were acquainted saluted one another, and those
who rose out of the earth asked the others concerning
the things above, and those from heaven asked them con¬
cerning the things below, and that they told one another,—
those wailing and weeping, whilst they called to mind
what and how many things they suffered and saw in
their journey under the earth (for it was a journey of a
154
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 26, 1875.
thousand years); and that these, again, from heaven explained
their enjoyments, and spectacles of amazing beauty.
To narrate many of them, Glaucon, would occupy much
time; but this, he said, was the same, that whatever just
actions a man had committed, and whatever injuries a man
had committed, they were punished for all these separately
tenfold; and that it was in each, according to the rate of a
hundred years—the life of man being considered as so long—
that they might suffer tenfold punishment for the injustice
they had done ; so that if any had been the cause of many
deaths, either by betraying cities or armies, or bringing men
into slavery, or being confederates in any other wickedness,
for each of all these they reaped tenfold sufferings; and if,
again, they had benefited any by good deeds, and had been
just and holy, they were rewarded according to their deserts.
Of those who died very young, and lived but a little time, he
related other things not worth mentioning; but of impiety
and piety towards the gods and parents, and of suicide, he
told the more remarkable retributions.   
After they arrive here, it is necessary for them to go direct
to Lachesis. Then a certain prophet first of all ranges them
in order, and afterwards taking the lots, .and the models of
lives, from the knees of Lachesis, and ascending a lofty tri¬
bunal, he says:—“The speech of the Yirgin Lachesis, the
daughter of Necessity: Souls of a day! The beginning of
another period of men of mortal race. The demon shall not
receive you as his lot, but you shall choose the demon;
he who draws the first, let him first make choice
of a life, to which he must of necessity adhere.
Virtue is independent, of which everyone shall partake,
more or less, according as he honours or dishonours her:
the cause is in him who makes the choice, and the Deity is
blameless.” When he had said these things, he threw the
lots on all of them, and each took up the one which fell
beside him, except himself, for he was not permitted; and
when each had taken it, he knew what number he had
drawn. After this he placed on the ground before them the
models of lives, many more than those we see at present; and
they were all various, for there were liyes of all sorts of
animals, and human lives of every kind; and among these
there were tyrannies also, some of them perpetual, and others
destroyed in the midst of their greatness, and ending in
poverty, banishment,- and want. There were also lives of
renowned men, some for their appearance as to beauty,
strength, and agility; and others for their descent, and the
virtues of their ancestors. There were the lives of renowned
women in the same manner. But there was no disposi¬
tion of soul among these models, because of necessity, on
choosing a different life, it becomes different itself. As to
other things, riches and poverty, sickness and health, they
are mixed with one another, and some were in a middle
station between these.
* * * * *
At that time, therefore, the messenger from the other world
further told how that the prophet spoke thus : “ Even to
him who comes last, if he chooses with judgment, and lives
consistently, there is prepared a desirable life, and by no
means bad. Let neither him who is first be negligent in his
choice, nor let him that is last despair.”
* * * * *
Of the water of Lethe all of them must necessarily drink
a certain quantity, and such as are not kept by prudence
drink more than they ought, and he who from time to time
drinks forgets everything. And, after they were laid asleep,
and midnight was approaching, there was thunder and an
earthquake, and they were thence on a sudden carried up¬
wards, some one way and some another, approaching to
generation like stars. And he himself was forbidden to drink
of the water. Where, however, and in what manner he came
into his body, he was entirely ignorant, but suddenly looking
up in the morning, he saw himself already laid on the funeral
pile.
The new offices of the British National Association of
Spiritualists at 38, Great Busselhstreet, Bloomsbury, W.C.,
are now being furnished by the Offices Committee, and will be
ready for occupation in a few days.
The Lord Kayleigh lectured recently at the Boyal Insti¬
tution on “ The Dissipation of Energy.” Among the listeners
present were Lady Clara Rayleigh, Mr. William Crookes,
F.R.S., Earl Stanhope, Mr. R. Hannah, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
H. D. Jencken, Lady Claud Hamilton, and Mr, W. H. Harrison.
Professor George Busk, E.R.S. presided.
PHOTOGRAPHING INVISIBLE OBJECTS.
(From the “Revue Spirite,” March J
My dear Monsieur Leymarie,—On the 15th of this month
my familiar spirit begged me to go to Buguet’s on Wednesday
at eleven o’clock, desiring, so it asserted, to do something for
me in broad daylight. At the hour fixed I arrived at Buguet’s
with the medium, not knowing what was to take place. My
idea was that it would be a materialisation of my familiar
spirit to give me her portrait. I asked the spirit, “ What are
we to do ?” The spirit replied through the medium, “ Buguet
will pose you asmsuaL” Before commencing, Buguet said to
the spirit: “Have you anything to say to me?” Answer:
“ I shall be able to come very well to-day, and shall make a
beautiful present to my good Julien, for I love him much; I
am adorning my head, in order to look my best.” When
all was ready, I sat. The operation terminated, Buguet
and I went down to develops the negative. What was
our astonishment at finding no appearance on the plate,
the size of which was very large indeed. Not only was
there no spirit, but my portrait and the table on which I
was leaning ought certainly to have made an appearance. We
asked through the medium the cause of this ? Answer:
“ Because what we wish to offer to our good Julien—Clarita
and I—was not then sufficiently materialised, and I obstructed
the light before the lens entirely, so that nothing should appear.
We are working at this moment to finish our present.”—
“Will the present be ready at the moment of my pose?”—
“ Yes.” The operation was finished, and at the moment that
Buguet put on the cap, there fell from the roof of,the glazed
chamber, touching my head in its fall, a beautiful crown of
exquisite flowers, fifty centimetres in diameter. The spirit
had thrown it on me as soon as the sitting was over. On the
development of the plate, I obtained a magnificent proof of
the presence of my familiar spirit; her hair is floating and
she carries her beautiful crown in her hand. I have had the
model which she left me photographed. This is a very inte¬
resting case, in this sense :—1st. This beautiful crown was ma-'
terialised by the spirit, was held near my head during the
sitting, and yet was not seen by any one. 2nd. This crown
not being ready at my first sitting, the spirit shut out the light
entirely, so as to hinder the reproduction of the objects
placed in front of the lens ; which fact, I imagine, can only
be conceived to have taken place through the light being
excluded by an opaque body.—While awaiting the time when
they may please to enlighten us, let us be content to admire
the power accorded by God to superior spirits.
I have since found that the present was this fine portrait of
the spirit, she holding in her hand a beautiful crown of real
flowers, which she left for me at parting, and which I shall
always preserve.
Feeling sure that this fact will interest you, I hasten to
impart it, leaving you the liberty of publishing it if you
think fit.—Comte de Bullet, Paris, Feb. 19th, Hotel
d’Athenee, Rue Scribe.
The Progressive Spiritualist (Melbourne) has ceased to
exist, after doing much useful work.
Duplication- of the Human Fobm.—Mrs. J. Martin, of
Cairo, Illinois, has published a letter in The Banner of Light
of March 6th, describing seances through the mediumsbip of
Mrs. Stewart, of Terre Haute, Indiana, and in the course of
the letter she says :—“ Her cabinet is erected on twenty-inch
trestles, under, above, and around which the investigator can
keep a watchful eye. The doors of the cabinet form the whole
front, and we could find nothing in its structure, or in the
seance-xoom, hinting, renlotely even, of trickery. A circle of
three dozen persons, of every shade of scepticism, composed
the audience that saw the medium enter the cabinet alone.
The lights were then turned down to a mellow tint, and the
music-box turned On, and we waited developments. In a few
moments a voice from the cabinet complained of the ill-health
of the medium (who was suffering from a severe cold and
cough), but promised to do all she could for us. Soon the
door opened, and two figures were visible to the spectators.
Advancing and retiring several times, they (two figures, one
certainly the medium, the other a form arrayed in a snowy
wrapper, belted loosely to her form) walked out three or four
feet upon the platform, smacking their hands, and using their
limbs with as much apparent ease as ordinary persons. Re¬
entering the cabinet, the doors were thrown open again, and
the apparition was seen standing beside the medium.. The
medium was then seen in an exhausted condition, and no
trace was found of her spiritual companion.
March 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
OTomgponXience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
SPIRITUALISM ILLUSTRATED.
“Most willing spirits that promise noble service.”—Cymbeline.
Sir,—We perceive by recent nnmbers of The Spiritualist
that ideas are afloat respecting a new pictorial magazine or
newspaper that shall reflect the heavens as well as the earth,
and thus blend lights and shadows, causes and effects, more
prominently and vividly than hitherto. The conception seems
noble, important, and fascinating; but where are the artists
and subjects to come from, and how is identity to be preserved
and verified ? Queries may arise as often and as confounding
as some of old, which Divinity suggested to baffle and silence
both sophistry and cunning. For if you say such a scene and
such a face is a transcript from above, or the third heavens,
who will believe it ? And if from the earth only, where lies
the novelty, the grandeur, or the transcendentality ?
Genius, imagination, and conception will not satisfy the
claims made under such high pretensions; nothing inferior,
in fact, to a direct influx from a spiritual origin. If this be
permitted and obtained, then the grand antitype of all things
will be blazoned before us, and shadows will melt into com¬
parative obscurity and gloom. As to the ways and means of
commencing in this “ High Art,” some trifling assistance by
way of background or contrast may possibly be obtained, by
watching and reflecting over the dark touches and gothic
vagaries of Dante, Dore, and even the mad Martin ; but the
nearest approach to supernal imagery amongst departed
geniuses will probably be found in Flaxman. As to the more
modern inspired artists now said to be drawing all their power
and conceptions from the skies, we are utter strangers; but
read with intense interest the names of Everitt, Houghton,
Wilkinson, and several others, who have long preserved their
high privilege and great reputation. If the power, gift, or
skill be not wanted in this new Spiritual flight, but all is
ready for action (saving a suitable subject, landscape, face, or
scene), I know of no word-painting seeming so true, grand,
captivating, beautiful, and yet terrible as may be found in
Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell, and in the various Memorable
Relations scattered throughout his Arcana Gelestia and True
Christian Religion. And the wonder is that the Society (re¬
presenting their favourite master and seer), has not ventured
in this great pictorial age to illustrate some of his paradisiacal
and diabolical regions, before which the dark abodes and
fanciful scenes in The Curse of Kehama and Vathek are but
fairyland. I trust therefore the prospectus of the new
spiritual illustrated serial will be carried out and succeed, for
the name implies perfection, originality, and beauty; and any¬
thing not bearing the goldsmith’s stamp, or one at least of the
above qualities as a heavenly imprint from the Courts on high,
will be condemned and despised as spurious or a lie. Pre¬
suming that clairvoyance is a fact, and spiritual sight and
influx no dream, it is difficult to conceive the amount and
finale of these beautiful and brilliant transcripts ; and even if
actuality be not always approached, still if Burke’s idea of the
“ Sublime and Heavenly” be more than eclipsed, something
will be gained for art, and a new flower for the present stinted
and limited conservatory. Imagination swoons and reason
topples at the bare conception of the project being carried out,
and when thinking of the gallery and phalanx of living por¬
traits and subjects that will be reflected from the worlds above
to the globe beneath. Of course no “ castles in the air” that
the poets and the timid have erected, no “ music of the
spheres,” nor flights of the angelic or “ shining ones,” nor
even “ the man in the moon” (if he still retains his lunar
domicile) will escape the telescopic and gifted vision of the
favoured limners and mediums of the 19 th century.
But I see a dark shade in the etching, that I am not im¬
pressed nor feel inclined to reveal, for if the past may become
pictorial, and hang like a horrid dark cartoon before the eye,
there are scenes that are sad to review, and we fain would blot
out for ever. For we are told by the gifted ones that every
act, thought, and scene is reflected and fixed, and may be re¬
produced from the registers and scrap-books above, when
rebellion and unbelief challenge the exposure, and pride and
hypocrisy boast of humility and sanctity. So that Spiritualism
when illustrated will put us on our guard, lest its revealings
when retrospective bring shame and sorrow to our remem¬
brance. W. L. Sammons.
Cape Town, South Africa, Feb. 10th, 1875.
We have received several books, and reviews of them
will appear in the next number of The Spiritualist.
It is probable that the next soiree of the National Asso-
siation of Spiritualists will not be held at the Cavendish
Booms, but in another place at the West End.
Spiritualism in East London.—Last Sunday Mr.
Cogman’s quarterly tea meeting was held at 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile End. He stated that the Sunday collections during
the last three months averaged about five shillings each,
whilst those on the Wednesday evenings averaged less than
sixpence each ; the meetings therefore did not clear the value
of the rent of the rooms. He and Mrs. Cogman kept the
public work for Spiritualism going in that locality, out of the
proceeds of their labour. Mr. Burns made a speech setting
forth the value of the Medium newspaper to the movement,
and stated that he gave away five hundred free copies of it
every week. Miss Keeves, Miss Eagar, Mr. Blunderfield, and
others addressed the meeting.
Brixton Psychological Society.—A Council meeting
of this society was held on Tuesday last week, at the tempo¬
rary offices, 6, Loughborough-road, Brixton. Present, Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. James Deane, Miss E. D. Ponder,
Miss Withall, and Mr. Arthur E. Bendle. Mr. Fitz-Gerald
presided. Dr. Gully was unanimously elected a member. The
Buies Committee gave in their report, with draft of rules for
ratification by a general meeting. The next Council meeting
is to be held on the 30th instant, at the above address, one
hour before the first general meeting, viz., 6.30 p.m., to
arrange business to be laid before the said meeting. The
honorary secretary, Mr. Arthur E. Bendle, has asked us to
inform members, and persons generally interested in the
cause, that the first general meeting is to be held on Tuesday,
the 30th instant, at Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald’s, 6, Lough¬
borough-road North, and a large muster of members, and
those wishing to join the society is desired.
An Orthodox Opinion.—The Revd. John Graham, of
Sydney, says:—“ How different is the dark seance, with the
priestess’s hands held for hours in the male consulter’s, all
alone within locked doors, or the circle round the planchette
or table, from Moses in the Mount with God, while the people
. see him go and come, and 4 hear the trumpet and the voice of
words! ’ How different the history of Paul and Peter, with
their daylight discourses and miracles, and 4 great plainness of
speech,’ in Athens, Jerusalem, and Borne, from Spiritualists in
darkened rooms, awaiting inarticulate knocks or shadowy
apparitions ! I marvel at the credulity and unbelief of Spirit¬
ualists. Mr. Tyerman ridicules the fable of the first human
pair created perfect, and then tempted by 4 a talking snake.’
Yet he devoutly believes that spirits from eternity knock on
tables, and write by the insensate deal-board called a plan¬
chette ! ”—Harbinger of Light.
Liverpool Psychological Society.—On Sunday last,
the 21st inst., the speakers were again Dr. William Hitchman,
and Mr. John Priest, who have now given joint courses of
lectures on the science and ethics of Spiritualism, from the
standpoints of literature, philosophy, and experimental observ¬
ation, in ancient and modern times. Dr. Hitchman’s address
was entitled, 44 Our Present Position,” in which he reviewed
the local history of Spiritualism in Liverpool and its vicinity,
advocating 44 yet greater earnestness and more vigorous co¬
operation on the part of those wealthy sympathisers with
this stupendous movement, in order that Spiritualists may
soon be in possession of the finest temple- of truth,
that self-improvement in spirituality of soul, together with
mental culture and the advancement of science can jus¬
tify; embellished, moreover, with lofty minds and loving
hearts, and all that pure reason, true poetry, and aesthetic
taste can provide.” In the face of powerful obstacles
the rooms of the Liverpool Psychological Society : are now
inconveniently crowded with large and respectable audiences,
who evidently appreciate the unfettered speech of trance
mediums and normal speakers, and their own equal right to
accept or reject, at will and pleasure, whatever is not con¬
formable to conscience, reason, and experience. Steps are
under consideration which may result in the purchase or erec¬
tion of a handsome building fdr Liverpool Spiritualists, with
every accommodation for lectures, seances, soirees, and Sunday
services, or public meetings. A desire has been expressed
that Mr. and Mrs. Nosworthy will again favour the Spirit¬
ualists of Liverpool with one of their choice literary and dra¬
matic entertainments, at the annual assembly on the 2nd
April.
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Majich 26, 1875,
THE ARCHBISHOP OF TOULOUSE OK SPIRITISM.
Sevebal journals having discussed the tenor of the mandate
of the Archbishop of Toulouse, we here give an extract which
recapitulates the sentiments of this pastoral; it is taken from
The National of February 10th, 1875:—
“ The Archbishop of Toulouse acknowledges with grief that
the mysticism of the Spiritists comes into painful competition
with Catholic mysticism.
“ He then demonstrates that Spiritism falls under the
anathemas of the Church :
“ 1st. Because Spiritism consults the souls of the dead, in
lieu of invoking them, as does Catholicism, if they are in the
enjoyment of eternal joy, of succouring them if they are in
expiatory flames.
“ 2nd. Because Catholicism alone has the monopoly of the
supernatural; and every other doctrine can only pretend to the
marvellous, the marvellousness of imposture.
“ 3rd. Because the Spirit of God reveals itself to Catholics
only: and because, if the evocations of Spiritism are not
seances of conjuring, they are satanic evocations, communion
with demons.
“4th. Because private revelations are of no value if not cer¬
tified by the Church, guaranteed by the infallible control of
the Church.
“ 5tb. Because Spiritism borders on Idolatry.
“ 6th. Because Spiritism produces hallucination, and be¬
cause the frequent result of Spiritist practice is a sort of giddi¬
ness, and mental exaltation.
f. 7th. Because the partisans of the Spiritist doctrines do
not admit that Adam is the sole father of the human race.
“ 8th. Because Spiritism does not acknowledge the eternal
punishment of hell, but believes that after death the duration
and the severity of chastisement will be in proportion to the
faults committed during life.
“ 9th. Because Spiritism alleges that all religions are equal
in the sight of God, who judges man solely by the purity of
his heart.
“ 10th. Because Spiritism affirms that the indissolubility of
the conjugal bond is a law contrary to nature, and that under
certain circumstances divorce might be a necessity.
“ And Monseigneur, the Archbishop of Toulouse, concludes
thus: ‘ Let us burn the books that treat on Spiritism. Let us
never listen, on subjects of faith, to the voice of any other
society than the Church.’ ”—Revue Spirite (March).
AN'S WEES TO CORRESPONDENTS.
3?.—Certainly do not act upon the advice of the spirits in opposi¬
tion to your own convictions, or the dictates of common sense.
In the first place the messages are all coloured before they reach
you by the channel through which they pass; in the second the
spirits who have the most control over common matter, are not
always good or intelligent. Mr Koons, who had the most won¬
derful of the early physical manifestations in America, was
brought to ruin and disgrace by allowing the spirits to control
his business affairs. The Rev. J. Murray Spear suffered much
by blindly attempting to make machinery under their instruc¬
tions. Dr. Dee, the astrologer of the days of Queen Elizabeth,
was ruined in mind and body through following advice, or rather
“ orders ’’ given by spirits through the medium Kelly, and could
we remove the veil from private life, deplorable instances of the
shipwreck of the happiness of families from the same cause could
be given much nearer the present time. If spirits come to
destroy our individuality and independence, and to make us blind
tools in their hands, their mission must be a bad one. A high
spirit in or out of the body, would say that he had no right to
govern any other spirit, or to do more than to give advice; men
have enough to do to be responsible for their own lives and
actions, without being responsible for the deeds of others.
Just Published, Crown 8vo, Price 3s. 6d.
SON, REMEMBER,
An Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
BY THE REV. JOHN PAUL, B.A.,
Rector of .St. Alban’s, Worcester.
“ RoT SPECULATION—not purgatory.”
London: H. K. LEWIS, 136, Gower-street, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
fJlHE EIRE
RE - INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
■ follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made, and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment..
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W,
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.O.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.C., and Huddersfield, Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmers ton-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Mead Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working :-r-
No.
Companies.
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
British  
United States.,
Continental .,
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
£
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate Of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insuranob Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17J-
and 22 per cent, respectively.'
Name.
Premium
Income.
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
Alliance of Vienna.,
Security  
Swiss  
Vienna   
Magdeburg  
Pannonia 
Frankfurter 
Aachen 
Cologne  
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,604
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
£
61,404
142,632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
26§
16§
17
7f
20
9
33f
6
171
33J
20
20
14
26J
13
4U
12
The Formation Expenses of the. Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
of the Corporation.
March 26, 1875,
THE SPIHITUALIST.
in
"ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
"RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, <will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
|3 OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi
JLVl ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.-
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
l(as thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
'R. W. G-. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course i—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By Utters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfiold, Esq., 15.
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square.
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
Tickets, 5s. each; hour
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance,
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
'VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
, of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily! from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnostic of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
FPARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER
• Sittings h la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gayiaes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E,
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lllian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiek-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Caims-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hntcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice,D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex,N.W.
Fltton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
i Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles,,Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W«.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jim., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
I Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northeote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-bill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, VersaiHes-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.’W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &e.,25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D, H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Onne-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Egq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxhy, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emil a de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron VonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Yay, Gonohitz, Styria, via Grata, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman, Editor {Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Hylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russc
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. do Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsie
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, "Wurzburg, Bavaria.
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST.
March 26, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SpimtitAlism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D, D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Qnelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were Subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace,Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
, “3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ , 
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enqtjieees into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
Shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence,
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first syrtiptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained'when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ 6f educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt-
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H ,
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4^d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6i. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italiah[Academy of Science, Jtc.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s N ote Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC insti¬
tute, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 1 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, principals.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To behad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg : his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth j also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by 0. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stogkholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge® Co.) at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr,'Loiidon, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
