A RECORD Of THE PROQREgg Of THE gCIEfCE ^ND ETHICg OF gPIFilTU/UgM.
No. 12.—Vol. I. ' LONDON: MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 1870. °f-CTery
A SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERAL.
On Thursday, the 21st of July, the spirit of one
who was beloved by a wide circle of friends, both
in England and America, was tenderly removed to a
higher world. Mrs. Ritchie, better known as Anna
Cora Mowatt, the actress and authoress, was horn in
1819, at La Castagne, near Bordeaux. Her father was
a wealthy American merchant, who removed to New
York, when “ Lily,” as his favourite daughter was
lovingly called, was about seven years old. At the age
of fifteen she married Mr. James Mowatt, who had been
attracted by the fascinating child who already gave rich
promise of poetic ability. After some few ye"ars passed,
partly in travelling and partly in a happy home, sur¬
rounded by all that renders life most attractive, the
sudden loss of their fortune, and Mr. Mowatt’s ill-
health, left the young and delicate wife, accustomed
from her birth to every luxury, totally destitute.
Mrs. Mowatt then determined to rely for subsistence
upon the gifts which had hitherto served only to adorn
her husband’s home. With untiring energy she pro¬
duced poems, magazine articles, and critical essays,
descending even to the merest literary drudgery to ob¬
tain bread for those who were dear to her. Soon, how¬
ever, she surprised her friends and delighted the public
of New York by producing a comedy entitled Fashion,
which achieved a brilliant success at the Park Theatre,
and was the first American dramatic effort that received
a favourable recognition from the London public.
Mrs. Mowatt had previously appeared as a reader,
and been welcomed by large audiences, both in New
York and Boston, and after the success of Fashion
yielded to the inducements held out by the managers of
the Park Theatre, and in 1845 made her debut as
“ Pauline ” in the Lady of Lyons. In one night she
assumed a position which it has taken many actresses
of repute years to achieve—a position which she ever
after held in the front and foremost rank of her pro¬
fession.
In 1847 she visited this country, where she was im¬
mediately engaged for the Metropolitan stage, appearing
first at the Princesses, then at the Marylebone; next,
at the Princesses again, and finally at the Olympic. In
addition to the comedy of Fashion, Mrs. Mowatt also
produced in London a five act drama in blank verse,
entitled Armand, which has held the stage, off and on,
both in England and America, ever since. Her engage¬
ments in England were brought to a sad and abrupt
termination by Mr. Mowatt’s death, and her own serious
illness. She never again appeared on the London stage.
She continued, however, to delight the American public
until she retired from the stage in 1854, on the occa¬
sion of her marriage with Mr. Ritchie, the editor of the
Richmond Enquirer.
Among her numerous works, the Autobiography of
an Actress was, perhaps, the most successful. This
book went through a number of editions, and met with
a large sale. In this account of her life, some most
interesting and remarkable clairvoyant experiences are
recorded. These phenomena led both Mrs. Mowatt
and her husband, who had hitherto been a confirmed
sceptic, to examine the works of Swedenborg, and
finally to become members of his Church. Mrs. Mowatt
never withdrew from the Swedenborgian community,
but her belief was not confined by the narrow limits of
-this or any other sect: She was essentially unsectarian.
Having met Mr. D. D. Home, when a lad, at her
father’s house, whose hospitable welcome was extended
to the young, and then well nigh friendless medium, she
ever retained for him an affectionate regard. For the
last four years his son has been with her, and was
tended by her during an attack of scarlatina, even, one
may say, in her dying moments. Cheerful and courage¬
ous to the last,—even when she knew that her departure
was at hand,—she offered a beautiful example of the
confidence with which a noble soul can brave the terrors
•of the valley and shadow of death. She was huried in
Kensal Green Cemetery, on Monday, July 25th, and in
accordance with her own wishes, all the grim parapher¬
nalia of death were dispensed, with. A simple snow-
white coffin was borne to the grave, followed by a band
of loving friends, who wore no external sign of grief,
and who strove rather to rejoice over her triumph, than
selfishly mourn their own loss. The grave was decked
with flowers, and the coffin strewn with lilies in re¬
membrance of the “ Lily ” that had been gathered from
the garden of earth to bloom henceforth in heaven.
Flowers and sunshine were the fit accompaniment of
the exit from this world, of one whose life was fragrant
with the perfume of good deeds, and radiant with the
light of love.
Among the friends present at the funeral were Mr.
Morse, the American Consul-General, and his family;
Mr. Epes Sargent, author, and a co-worker with Mrs.
Ritchie in her younger days; Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E.,
the electrician; Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, and Mr. Edmund Noel. Among
those who immediately followed the coffin, and hy
whom the beloved invalid had been surrounded during
her last moments, were Mr. Ion Perdicaris, with Mrs.
Galindo; Mr. D. H. Home, with Lady Cecil Gordon;
and Mr. Home’s little boy “ Sacha,” with Mrs. Cox, of
Jermyn-street.
It is a pleasing fact that so many of those present
were English Spiritualists, who had learned to know
and love the fascinating woman who has lived here,
during the four past years, as an English correspondent
of American journals; but it is to be feared that the
interminable arguments of the Rev. Mr. Davies, the
officiating clergyman, on the “ resurrection of the body,”
fell somewhat coldly, if not painfully, upon the ears of
those who had had so many indubitable proofs that the
spirits of the departed await the sound of no “ last
trumpet ” to assume the robes of immortality.
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IN TEN PANTS.—PANT SIX.
Some more of the correspondence published by John
Wesley is appended :—
[The following letter was received at the same time
as the preceding one, though it has no date.]
Lettee XI.—From Miss Emily Wesley to her brother
Samuel.
“ Deae Beothee,—I thank you for your last; and
shall give you what satisfaction is in my power, con¬
cerning what has happened in our family. I am so
far from being superstitious, that I was too much in¬
clined to infidelity; so that I heartily rejoice at having
such an opportunity of convincing myself, past doubt
or scruple, of the existence of some beings besides those
we see. A whole month was sufficient to convince any
body of the reality of the thing, and to try all ways of
discovering any trick, had it been possible for any such
to have been used. I shall only tell you what I myself
heard, and leave the rest to others.
“ My sisters in the paper chamber had heard noises,
and told me of them; but I did not much believe, till
one night, about a week after the first groans were
heard, which was the beginning, just after the clock
had struck ten, I went downstairs to lock the doors,
which I always do. Scarce had I got up the best
stairs, when I heard a noise, like a person throwing
down a vast coal in the middle of the fore kitchen,
and all the splinters seemed to fly about from it. I
was not much frighted, but went to my sister Sukey,
and we together went all over the low rooms, but there
was nothing out of order.
“ Our dog was fast asleep, and our only cat in the
other end of the house. No sooner was I got upstairs,
and undressing for bed, but I heard a noise among
many bottles that stand under the best stairs, just like
the throwing of a great stone among them, which had
broke them all to pieces. This made me hasten to bed.
But my sister Hetty, who sits always to wait on my
father going to bed, was still sitting on the lowest step
on the garret stairs, the door being shut at her back,
when, soon after, there came down the stairs behind her
something like a man, in a loose night-gown trailing
after him, which made her fly rather than run to me in
the nursery.
“ All this time we never told our father of it; but
soon after we did. He smiled, and gave no answer;
but was more careful than usual, from that time, to
see us in bed, imagining it to be some of us young
women that sat up late, and made a noise. His in¬
credulity, and especially his imputing it to us, or our
lovers, made me, I own, desirous of its continuance till
he was convinced. As for my mother, she firmly be¬
lieved it to be rats, and sent for a horn to blow them
away. I laughed to think how wisely they were em¬
ployed, who were striving half a day to fright away
Jeffrey (for that name I gave it) with a horn.
“ But whatever it was, I perceived it could be made
angry. For from that time it was so outrageous, there
was no quiet for us after ten at night. I heard fre¬
quently, between ten and eleven, something like the
quick winding up of a jack, at the corner of the room
by my bed’s head, just like the running of the wheels
and the creaking of the iron-work. This was the
common signal of its coming. Then it would knock
on the floor three times, then at my sister’s bed’s head
in the same room, almost always three together, and
then stay. The sound was hollow and loud, so as none
of us could ever imitate.
“ It would answer to my mother, if she stamped on.
the floor, and bid it. It would knock when I was
putting the children to bed, just under me where I sat.
One time, little Kezzy, pretending to scare Patty, as I
was undressing them, stamped with her foot on the
floor, and immediately it answered with three knocks,
just in the same place. It was more loud and fierce,
if any one said it was rats, or any thing natural.
“ I could tell you abundance more of it; but the rest
will write, and therefore it would be needless. I was
not much frighted at first, and very little at last; but
it was never near me, except two or three times; and
never followed me, as it did my sister Hetty. I have
been with her when it has knocked under her; and
when she has removed, it has followed, and still kept
just under her feet, which was enough to terrify a
stouter person.
“If you would know my opinion of the reasontof
this, I shall briefly tell you. I believe it to be witch¬
craft, for these reasons. About a year since, there was
a disturbance at a town near us, that was undoubtedly
witches'; and if so near, why may they not reach us ?
Then my father had for several Sundays before its
coming preached warmly against consulting those that
are called cunning men, which our people are given to;
and it had a particular spite at my father.
“ Besides, something was thrice seen. The first time
by my mother, under my sister’s bed, like a badger,
only without any head that was discernible. The same
creature was sat by the dining-room fire one evening;
when our man went into the room, it ran by him,
through the hall, under the stairs. He followed with
a candle, and searched, hut it was departed. The last
time he saw it in the kitchen, like a white rabbit,
which seems likely to be some witch; and I do so
really believe it to be one, that I w7ould venture to fire
a pistol at it, if I saw it long enough. It has been
heard hy me and others since December. I have filled
up all my room, and have only time to tell you.—I am,
your loving sister, “ Emilia Wesley.”
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
IN THEEE PAETS—PAST TWO.
The following is a continuation of the experiences in
Spiritualism, of Mr. J. F. Livermore, the New York
banker. How fully and absolutely the whole narrative
is authenticated will be seen on reference to the last
number of this journal. We begin our further quota¬
tions with the following letter from Mr. Livermore to
Mr, Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bemard-villas, Upper
Norwood:—
“ New York, Oct. 1st, 1861.
“My dear Sir,—I am in receipt of your letter of theAth
ult., and, in accordance with your request, I enclose here¬
with a memorandum of some of my further experience. To
bring the facts before you simply as facts, and not as theories,
I have made extracts from my diary, and should you desire
to give publicity to any of them, you can make your own
selections. You may depend upon their entire reliability.
They were recorded as they occurred, and are without
exaggeration or colouring. ■ I feel some diffidence in present¬
ing such statements, even to you, being myself astounded at
my own experience. If then to you they may seem marvellous,
how will they be looked upon by those without knowledge but
as the ravings of a madman—or as the wild vagaries of de¬
lusion. It is difficult to conceive the world of facts so con¬
trary to general experience, and it is well not to accept them
on insufficient evidence. This has been my rule of action
from the commencement of these manifestations, and but for
their gradual development, step by step, I could never have
been prepared for such results. The receptive quality of the
human mind is necessarily limited to, and dependent upon,
this preparatory process; and the wisdom of our Creator in
no way more strikingly manifests itself than in this principle
of adaptation—and in rendering our condition such, that we
reject even great truths, until the soil has been first prepared
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
to give them root. We become familiar to-day with what
yesterday we could not realise, and I look back now to my
first experiences, which at the time seemed so marvellous, and
regard them as but the very lowest rounds of the ladder
which has been leading me towards the Dimrie Light. From
the glimpses I have had of the spirit-world and its beauties,
I am forced to the conviction that in our earth-life we have
little conception of the higher destiny which awaits us, in the
perpetual and eternally progressive elevation of the human
soul after it shall have shaken off its shackles of flesh. I
hope before the winter passes, when the electrical conditions
of the atmosphere become favourable, to be able to give you
corroborative evidence beyond my own, having been promised
that a circle of four shall witness and bear testimony to the
truth of these developments. My sister has been designated
as one who can witness them without a disturbing influence.
I send you herewith ten cards written by spirit-hands, which
I know cannot fail to interest you and your friends, with a
memorandum of those which you are at liberty to keep if
you desire. The others I will thank you to return after you
have made such use of them as you may think proper. The
one written in ink will no doubt be looked upon with inte¬
rest. It was done with an ordinary steel pen, which, with a
glass inkstand and the card, had been placed upon the table
in front of us. In the process of writing, the pen was fre¬
quently heard to strike against the mouth of the inkstand,
in obtaining its supplies of ink. I have also had others
written in ink, and on one occasion in the morning, not,, how¬
ever, in a full light, but with the shutters partially closed.
In exhibiting these cards, do not forget to state that this
result has only been arrived at, after frequent sittings and the
most patient attention to conditions. At first the initials of
the name, rudely done, was all the spirit could execute, but
by perseverance, from these rude beginnings, has the writing
been brought to its present state—and it is now executed
more or less rapidly—according to the strength or weakness
of the electrical atmospheric conditions. Nearly all my
spirit communications are now written by invisible hands, the
spirits expressing a decided preference for this method over
all others, as being free from interpolation, and untinctured
‘ by any shadow of other minds.’ The same may also be
stated with regard to the luminous phenomena, which, from
having been at the outset comparatively dim, and of the size
of an orange, are now intensely bright, of almost any re¬
quired size or shape, with power to illuminate and render
visible spirit-forms or surrounding objects—and that which
was only achieved after repeated and long-continued experi¬
ments, is now accomplished with the greatest ease and
facility, under ordinarily favourable conditions. These phe¬
nomena can only be witnessed by those having experience,
who by this means have become gradually familiarized with
them, who are possessed of calm self-control in presence of
such startling manifestations, and they can never (according
to my observation) be obtained when the circle, either large
or small, is composed of diverse and inharmonious persons.
The spirit-form seems too pure and ethereal to withstand the
rude gaze of the merely curious, or to come into the presence
of, and in contact with, the conflicting doubts and disturbing
influences of mixed arid unconfiding natures. One must be¬
come partially changed and assimilated to peaceful harmo¬
nious conditions, or, to a certain extent, be en rapport, before
the spirit has power to concentrate and present itself in form.
I fear I shall have already wearied you with the length of
my communications. If, however, my experience shall prove
of any benefit in giving light on this great truth, I shall have
the satisfaction of having done my duty, and of having
obeyed the injunction of the spirits ‘ to give it to the world.'
“ Very sincerely and truly yours,
“ Benj. Coleman, Esq., London.” “ J. F. Livermore.”
We will now continue the extracts from Mr. Liver¬
more’s diary:—
“ July 4th, 1861.—Upon the evening of my birthday, and
just before leaving home for a sojourn in the country, the
following message was addressed to me by the spirit of my
wife
“‘July 4th, 1861.
“ ‘ This morning’s rising sun found me watching by your
bed. Did you, dear Charley, feel the kiss you wakened with ?
How much I would say were I in the form, and yet I could
not say one half that I do now, for every word is clothed with
the spirit from whom it comes. This day is of great worth to
me, darling, from the fact that the greatest joy of my life was
then sent into this world. I am happy to be so closely with
you, happier still to make you conscious of my presence. I
often hear you reason with others upon this truth. It is well
to try to teach them, and give them light, but talk not to those
who will not listen. You can preach to the wind, it will not
hear you. Tell them, darling, that the greatest truth, the
most improbable truth, when once understood and learned,
when once made clear, proves of great value when familiar
to an unknown longing for something felt, yet not seen.
What is more important to yourselves than that you should
prepare yourselves daily for the life hereafter. The time
must come when the soul will return truthful and powerful to
Him who gave it. You no sooner wake to a sense of being,
than you sigh to learn the spiritual part of which you are
formed. I have learned, Charley, that we commence to live
here before we are born into the world. The soul aspires
ever higher and higher where it is pure. The spirit changes
with the. life, blessings attend patience and forbearance. I
shall go with you to-morrow, and, oh, I hope that I shall be
able to give you some sweet tokens of my presence. I will if
I can. While I write Doctor Franklin is aiding me. The
atmosphere weakens, and I will say good night; good night,
and still I cannot go or say good night without a desire to say
more. My darling, what a blessing we have, what a privilege.
Be happy. Meet soon again. Your dear head shall rest near
mine to-night, while blessings fall on us both. Doctor
Franklin will show himself to you soon. We will both come
together. Good night, good night. “ ‘ Estelle.’
“ ‘ July 4, 1861.’
“ July loth, 1861.—The following card was written upon my
return from the country. I was at home alone, my family
being absent, and a little relic, which had disappeared before
leaving {two weeks before) was returned with the message :
“ ‘ Dear Charley,—I return the little relic with many bless¬
ings, and many kisses. Will you accept them all ? I shall
be with you, Charley, in our house. I will walk by your side
in the shade of the evening, and in the morning -time you
will not miss me, for I shall be there. You will not feel sad.
How could you, when I shall be near to comfort you ! I say
you will not. I mean, dear, that you must not. Be happy—
I am—and never undervalue these great blessings. Teach
othersito them. God bless you evermore, and let not a
shadow cross the bright interior. Let not the counteracting
opinions of others jar upon the truths given so freely to you,
lest I too become disturbed, and a barrier be placed between
our two souls which now breathe together. Men understand
too little of this world, and forget that the other is its counter¬
part)" only purified from sin. Yet we mtist all have charity.
To eft is human. The light of a soiil is easily blown out. The
shadows will grow longer upon it if permitted to remain and
become sorrows. Never doubt, as faith is believing in God.
The great star lights your path, and flowers bloom for us both.
God bless you. Good night, but not good-bye. Good night.
“ f Estelle.’
“ July 21st, 1861.—At the expiration of the usual half hour
of quiet, the bolt of the lock was turned violently backwards
and forwards, and various other demonstrations took place,
such as striking violently upon the bureau with a Bible lying
thereon. The rustling, and a tap upon my shoulder, indicated
the presence in form of the spirit. My head was pushed gently
forward by spirit-hands, and bent towards the table to prevent
my looking in the direction of the light, and soon after the
electrical rattle approaching, we raised our heads to see the
same beautiful spirit surrounded with flowers ; while bending
over her left shoulder, another face was indistinctly visible.
As a spirit purporting to be Dr. Franklin had promised to
make an effort to appear on this occasion, I looked for him.
My wife soon appeared again, when I found that by turning
my gaze from her, she could approach much nearer, and thus
re-appeared very vividly four or five times, the whole expres¬
sion and smile being perfect; during the last two or three
appearances, I noticed a dark figure indistinctly standing at
her right, between myself and her. Some ten or fifteen
minutes now elapsed, when from behind us was heard a move¬
ment and a striking upon something like glass, with a clear
sound, resembling the tone of a silver bell. This, as it ap¬
proached us, was placed near my left ear, and was struck
vigorously, the reverberation passing to different parts of the
room. The tone was exquisite; at first rather solemn, but
becoming more and more musical and agreeable. The medium
assured me there was no glass ware or vessel of any kind in
the room, and my subsequent examination proved the correet-
ness of the assertion. The spirit at the same time informed
me that it was not a-material but a spiritual instrument
brought by Dr. Franklin. This instrument, whatever it was,
was frequently placed on my head, and rubbed against it and
my back, feeling like a glass globe of about six inches in
diameter. It was also placed against my ear after having been
struck. Its vibrations were distinctly felt, and its reverbera¬
tions became almost deafening. I was told to sing. I did so.
The instrument was drummed upon in perfect time to an air,
with sounds sufficiently loud to be heard in other rooms in the
house. This done, more vigorous strokes were made, the in¬
strument being-pushed towards my ear, and while the reverbe¬
rations were dying away, I found the spirit could, by its aid,
approach me with wonderfully augmented facility. During
this time I was kissed repeatedly, and a successful effort to
speak was made, a few distinct words, however, only being
articulated. A half or three-quarters of an hour having thus
been spent, the sounds ceased, and shortly after the spirit of
my wife again appeared in great splendour, approaching very
near, and this time the figure of a man was distinctly visible.
He seemed short, thick set, heavy, with broad shoulders,
dressed in black, and wearing a black velvet cap, the silk
tassel of which hung dangling about six inches long in front
of his face. Here the medium became very nervous, and I
have no doubt prevented the face being made more distinctly
visible. I saw a face dimly, but no recognisable features;
while those of my wife were, radiant. A second and third
time the effort was renewed, but the force had become ex¬
hausted by the wonderful manifestations so long continued,
when we were told that complete success had been prevented
by our starts and exclamations. The following explanation
was written upon a card. ‘ The echo you heard was brought
for the purpose of aiding me in speaking. It was an invention
of Dr. Franklin’s for me. You see that he is still useful and
great. How grateful I am to him ; how grateful you should
all be. You shall hear music from heaven soon.—-Estelle.’
By raps, I received the following, as well as answers to my
questions—| Dear Son, You do not know the great object I
have in future for you.—B. F.’ Question by me, ‘ Why am I
selected for these developments?’ Answer—‘You are the
only person we have found who could come in our personal
sphere and respond to every condition.’ Question—‘What
enables me to come into your sphere ? ’ Answer—* The.organi¬
sation and interior mind; the soul and comprehension ; you
have all combined in a fine spiritual sense.—B.F.’ I scarcely
need say that with my usual care I minutely examined every
part of the room before unlocking the door, and could find no
trace of anything by or upon which the sounds described could
have been produced. The same phenomena again occurred a
few evenings subsequently with the same results.
“ July 25th, 1861.—After the usual preliminary and the
electrical rattle, my wife stood by me in all her beauty, and,
on this occasion, her complete figure, dressed from head to
foot in white, with roses, and her hair bound with what seemed
to be a narrow blue velvet ribbon, the ends of the hair being
visible over her right shorflder, appeared. Above her head was
the bright gauze previously described. Her features and ex¬
pression were perfect, and she came, apparently, with great
ease and without effort. After appearing once, she rapped out
upon my shoulder as follows :-r^‘ The next time I appear, I will
bring a little glass.' She soon came, holding in her hand a
small oval mirror about three inches long, the glass glistening
in the light. An indistinct figure (supposed to be Dr. F.)
seemed to bold the light like a lanthom ; his dark arm passing
across her waist, while his whole figure was distinctly visible.
She seemed now to come with her little mirror more easily than
ever before, and returned to us at least a dozen times, in love¬
liness and beauty beyond description. My theory is, that the
mirror was intended to attract and divert a portion of our gaze',
which at times is no doubt too strong for spiritual presence.
I have frequently observed that looking intently at the light
itself disturbs its brightness, and listening to spirit-sounds
with great fixedness disturbs them also.
“ August lUth, 1861, 8 p.m.—Present, the medium and my¬
self. Atmosphere heavy and warm. Carefully examined the
room, locked the door, took the key, and made all secure. Sat
in quiet half an hour, when a spherical oblong light, enveloped
in folds, rose from the floor to our foreheads, and rested upon
the table in front. By raps—‘ Notice how noiselessly we come.’
Heretofore the light had generally appeared after a succession
of startling sounds and movements of movable objects; but
in the present instance, all was quiet. From this time, 8.30,
till 11.30, the light was constantly visible, but in different
forms. It remained upon the table a full half hour, the size
and shape of a large melon. As during this time it was passive,
I asked if it could rise, whereupon it immediately brightened,
flashed out, and rising, seemed a living breathing substance.
By raps—‘ This is our most important meeting, for it brings
August 15, 1870.
to our circle two powerful spirits great and good.’ The light
became gradually more powerful, and so brilliant upon the
side opposite us as to illuminate that part of the room. It now
rose from the table, resting upon my head and shoulder, the
drapery in the meantime touching and falling upon our faces,
with a peculiar scent of violets. After resting upon, and press¬
ing my head and shoulder, with the weight of a living head, it
descended to the floor. I was now satisfied that the purpose of
this meeting was some other than the appearance of the spirit
of my wife. The light now rose with increased brilliancy,
showing a head upon which was a white cap surrounded by a
frill. Seeing no face, I asked what this meant. The reply was
by raps—‘ As when I was ill.' This was correct, for it was to
all appearances the peculiar cap worn by my wife during her
last illness. This having passed away, the light appeared again
very brilliantly, showing a crown composed apparently of oak
leaves and flowers, a very wry beautiful manifestation, I had
brought with me on this occasion some new cards of a larger
size, different from any before used, and had placed upon two
of them private marks* These I put upon a book on the table.
In a few minutes they were taken from the book, and one of
them appeared near the floor, suspended three or four inches
from the carpet—I could not judge accurately—but the light
brightly showed the centre card, and radiated from each side
to a distance of some three or four inches,—or, in other words,
the card was the centre of a circle of spirit-light, of a foot in
diameter,—while an imperfectly-shaped hand, holdingmy small
silver pencil, was placed upon the card and moved quietly across
from left to right, as though writing, and when finishing a line,
it moved quickly back to recommence another. We were not
permitted to look at this very long at a time, as pur steady gaze
disturbed the operating forces ; but it remained more or less
visible for nearly an hour. The full-formed hand was seen
only a portion of the time, but during all this time, a dark sub¬
stance, rather smaller than the natural hand, held the pencil
and continued to write. One side of the card being finished,
we saw it reversed, and the other page commenced. This is
satisfactory evidence of the reality of spirit-writing, if any
evidence can be satisfactory. There could have been no pos¬
sible deception here. I held the medium’s hand : the door
was locked, and every precaution was taken by me as in pre¬
vious instances. The identical cards were returned subse¬
quently covered with the finest writing. I send them here¬
with :—
“ August 21 st, 1861.—The following card was written in ex¬
planation of the electrical chain, and its being broken :—
“ ‘ The thread when broken is hard to mend, the work is not
easy to get your conditions right, we surround you with in¬
fluences which aid you to see us ; these influences are so fine
and pure that wp find it difficult to keep them. When the
chain is broken for a long period the mind seems changed, the
conditions become less electrical, and that which we worked
so long to make perfect dissolves into more material things.
For instance, you take a root and transplant it; 4ts growth
is retarded, and it takes a long time to re-bloom in its new
change of soil. Were you to cease your investigations now,
and lose your interest—your ardency—we could not come in
form. You know not how much depends on you for all the
blessings you receive, darling—heaven is bright and beautiful.
My home is there undisturbed by the cares of earth, unshadowed
by sorrows! Oh, how happy, how blessed in you am I, my own!
How can I say enough! I walk with you daily through the
sweet companionship of your thoughts. I hover over you at
night, and cover you with my mantle of love. While you sleep
and dream of me, visions of the future come silently and vividly
to you. Oh, my loved one, do you know how happy you make
me by your faith and trust in me! Your own in heaven.
“ ‘ Estelle.’
August 2$>th, 1861.—The following explanation of the dis¬
appearance of cards, &c., was written by the spirits :—
“ ‘ My darling,—We conceal the cards in the sphere of the
medium, and make them invisible to the naked eye as other
atmospherical substances are. You have yet to learn that the
atmosphere has great power, and does great wonders for the
creation of man. We conceal the cards in the shadow of
our spiritual atmosphere, and then we surround them with an
electrical covering which withdraws them from the sight.
Let Dr. Franklin explain, he can better. “ ‘ Estelle.’
[By raps] :—“ Do not be disappointed at the writing. The
excitement in your mind disturbs me, and makes my hand
quiver.” [The writing of both the previous and the follow¬
ing card was irregular, and not as well done as usual.] Ex¬
planation continued by Dr. F. :—
“ ‘ Let me explain the disappearance of the cards. We
first spiritualise them so that you cannot see them, then we
retain them between the two spheres, the natural and the
spiritual. In this way we can often make materials objects
so spiritual that the naked eye cannot behold them, and thus
retain them between the two spheres. We use elements of
the atmosphere for our channel, and the elements of the atmo¬
sphere are the channel through which we manifest. Paper is
most easily made invisible. Be not doubtful when things
appear vague and incomprehensible.—B. F.’
“ September 11th.—The following directions were written
upon a card—
“ ‘ Meet on Friday evening, for the purpose of seeing me
in form. The hour, half-past seven ; the place upstairs. Let
your minds be calm and undisturbed ; have faith, and do not
mar the success by making exclamations. My son, fulfil the
conditions, and I will appear as naturally as when on earth.
Once more, I entreat you, be calm ; be not disturbed; have
faith. The circle will all be here to aid me. Wonder not at
their wish to come. Of one clay God hath formed us all, and
the good love to come where they can do good. Friday will
be our greatest manifestation yet given, but not the greatest
to be given.—B. F.’ ‘ My darling, you have at times disturbed
dear Dr. Franklin by your little impatience. Do you know
how much depends upon you ? By getting up, you greatly
disturb us. Do not leave your seat until we tell you. Every
time you get up, you break the chain.—Estelle.’
“ Friday Evening, September IZth, 1861.—Unfortunately,
the appointment for this evening, at half-past seven, was not
punctually kept, and it was half-past eight before we were
seated at the table.' I locked the door, taking the key after
the usual careful examination of the room. We sat in quiet
for three-quarters of an hour, when I became impatient from
the length of time elapsing without a demonstration, and was
answered—'No failure to-night, be patient.' I was then told
to 'open the window' to admit fresh air, and afterwards to
' darhen.' Immediately upon resuming my seat, a light ap¬
peared upon the floor some four or five feet behind us, and
rose with a rustling and rattling sound. This light assumed
the form of a cylinder or canister, about six inches long by
three in diameter, enveloped as usual in exquisite folds, while
after each display a dark covering was thrown over it. This
cylindrical light was waved over the table and-shaken, pro¬
ducing the electrical rattle, and throwing its radiations upon
THE SPIRITUALIST
91
August 15, 1870.
the spirit, who was now discovered to be standing directly in
front, where she remained for an unusual length of time, fre¬
quently changing her floral decorations, and assuming a great
variety of positions. At first, she appeared as she had done
before ; then, with a large rose in her hair, placed behind the
temple. The light then had the dark covering thrown over it.
A rattling was heard. She again appeared, and a small white
rose was seen on her forehead ; and again, with a lock of hair
drawn across one eye; then again, with a bunch of white tube¬
roses just behind the left ear in her hair. I asked to see her
hand, when she came forward holding a pink rose and violets
—the hand and arm distinctly visible. By raps, we were told
to ‘ Notice the flowers,'' which seemed so natural that I asked
if they were not real flowers. The answer was, ‘ Yes, real
flowers to us? The room was warm, and a pearl-handled fan,
which had been in use, was lying upon the table, together with
a blank card, which had been placed there accidentally. Sud¬
denly, in the absence, of the light, the fan was heard to move,
and open and shut. Upon the next appearance, I was very
much astonished to see the spirit of my wife standing before
us, holding the fan open before a portion of her face, while the
blank card was held by a dark form about a foot above the
table, the light shining full upon each. By raps, it was spelt,
‘ Dr. Franklin holds the card.' On looking carefully, while the
card seemed thus suspended, I discovered a dark form behind
it, but saw no other face but that of my wife. The fan was
opened and shut several times in full view while we were look¬
ing at it, and afterwards it was placed in my hand. The card
was taken from its first position, and held in front of the spirit’s
eyes like a mask, and both the fan and the card were seen in a
variety of positions. For an hour and a half the spirit thus
stood before us, at intervals invisible; but during these in¬
tervals of invisibility, the changes of position and of flowers
and robes were arranged, each change being accompanied by
the rustling sounds so often adverted to. The light frequently
rested upon the head or shoulder of the medium ‘ gathering
punier,' and in consequence of the nervousness thus produced,
and the delay at- the outset, the spirit purporting to be Dr.
Franklin, probably found it difficult, if not impossible, to make
himself visible.
“ September lith, 1861.-—The following card was written on
Saturday evening, Sept. 14, after my return from a drive in
the Central Park. A band of music had enlivened the scene,
and the music, together with the beauty of the park, is alluded
to:—
“ ‘ I have been with you to-day, dear Charley. I kissed
your brow, and many times looked in your face to see if it
still wore that look of peace and happiness which I love to
see. Your thoughts were of the earth, but mine were with
you, and though music filled the air, there was nothing so
sweet to me as your voice. The cerulean heaven holds more
happiness than the beautiful place which you have to-day
visited ; but there are no fields on earth half so beautiful as
those through which your 1 Estelle ’ wanders to bless her
Charley. There are pleasant paths on earth, for you to walk
in, green and fresh. There is a sky above you, calm and
serene. There are clouds also, which will often come to mar
the happiest moment. The flower fadeth, the grass withereth,
and the sky above you grows dark and gloomy; but the happi¬
ness that we feel, and the light which we have given you, lives
forever. Oh, dear Charley, what if weary cares come? What,
if disappointments shadow over you ? Bear them all. What
are the troubles of life to bear, when you have one in heaven
to share them with you ? Always be happy, dear Charley, for
I share both your happiness and sorrow. I long to come to you
again in form. I long to stand before you as naturally as when
in the earth-form. I long to speak to you face to face. Love
to dear patient little C . Good night, good night.
“ ‘ Estelle.’
“ Sept. 15, 1861.—Copy of card written on the above date—
“ ‘ My son,—When the atmosphere is cold, we shall have no
difficulties, no obstructions, and the promises which we have
made will be strictly fulfilled with many blessings. Of one
thing let-me warn you. When you sit at home, avoid exertion
of any kind, but more particularly warn those who sit with
you to avoid all and any exertion on their part, lest they cause
involuntary' movements of the table, and thus mar the beauti¬
ful truths which should never be tarnished by thought, word,
or deed. We can accomplish all without the aid of mortals,
and bitter will be the life of those who attempt to deceive, or
misuse this truth. Your truth aud sincerity are bright gems
in your nature. This is why I take pleasure in communicating
with you, and this is why I have chosen you to work through.
My son, good night. “: Benj. Franklin.’
“ ‘ Written communications are not tinctured by the reflec¬
tion of another mind. We come to you without a shadow.
This is why we are so happy to write our msssages.
“ ‘ Benj. Franklin.’
“ September 22nd, 1861.—By accident we were behind time
about half an hour, when the following reproof was written on
a card, which I send to you :—
“ ‘ My Son,—Promptness is requisite always to accomplish
great objects. A kingdom has been lost before now, for want
of punctuality ; hence it is, that we often fail in fulfilling a
promise, and are obliged to wait for some future opportunity
to carry out our wishes and promises, which we would never
fail in were the conditions favourable. Always keep in your
' mind the importance of the electrical chain which unites us
with yourselves. We are very finely linked, and therefore the
connection is very easily marred. When I name a meeting
for the purpose of coming to you in form, you must endeavour
to be here at the very moment, as we lose power by waiting
for you ‘ to gather.’ IVe are always ten minutes before the
time, and when I was in the form, I never kept a party wait¬
ing for me—never failed to meet all my engagements. Once,
when quite a lad, not being able to find my hat, I walked five
miles bareheaded, in order to get a situation in a printing-
office. The time is approaching when all that we have pro¬
mised will be fulfilled. My son, you have a better conception
of this subject, and more clearly understand it than some who
have studied it for years. Be firm and faithful to your faith.
“ ‘ Benj. Franklin.’
“ September 2Qth, 1861.—After the usual preliminaries, a
terrific knock upon the table startled us. This was made by a
heavy piece of marble, by chance lying upon the bureau, which
was brought across the room by the spirits for the purpose. A
brilliant light now rose, accompanied with rustlings and the
electrical rattling, and the spirit of my wife stood before us
‘ enveloped in white and flowers.' Her face was radiant with
spiritual life and beauty and expression. The light was held
by an outstretched arm and hand passing across her waist, and
displaying dimly the figure to which it belonged. After five
or six appearances of my wife, the light rested upon the floor
some 10 feet distant from me, then rising, it suddenly darted
. across the room backwards and forwards, until having gained
sufficient power, it flashed brightly upon the wall, and brought
into relief the entire figure of a large heavy man, who stood
before us. He was rather below the medium height, but
broad-shouldered, heavy, and dressed in black, his back to¬
wards us, and his face not visible. He appeared thus three
times very perfectly, remaining in view each time for about a
minute. The moment his entire form was discerned by us,
rappings commented simultaneously in all parts of the room,
which continued during the time he was in sight, as if to ex¬
press delight at the achievement of a new success. On asking
if the spirit we saw was that of Dr. Franklin, we were answered
in the affirmative by three heavy dull knocks upon the floor, as
though made by a heavy foot, which were several times re¬
peated. During this sitting the spirit of my wife approached,
tapping me upon the shoulder, smoothing my hair, and caress¬
ing me, while her long tresses, as natural as in life, dropped over
my face, with the peculiar scent of delicate freshly gathered
violets. A new and very curious manifestation now took place,
shewing us how the echoes were produced, and there was spelt
out:1 Darling, have you not been rewarded?' The light in pro¬
ducing these echoes or explosions assumed a lily shape, nearly
the size of my head, and so brilliant as to light the entire sur¬
face of a table and the centre of the room, so that Miss Fox
and I could see each other distinctly, as well as various objects
in the room. Then, bounding up and down from the surface
of the table, some 12 or 18 inches, it struck the table, and de¬
scending on my arm, produced the raps or echoes.
“ September 27th.—The following was written upon a card,
in explanation of the manifestations of last evening :—
“ ‘ My darling,—I was so happy to come here to you last
night with Dr. Franklin; and on that sweet occasion when
I could come in flowers and white robes, with a crown of
happiness. I was very happy, and I know that dear Dr.
Franklin was overjoyed. He lost his power in lending all his
aid to me. Next time you will see his face : the effort last
night aided him greatly for the next meeting. Good night,
darling. 9. ‘ Estelle.’
“ ‘We wish you to meet to-morrow night, but not for the
purpose of seeing us. We will not attempt again to come in
form until we have a cold atmosphere ; but it is well to meet
often, in order to keep the chain perfect. Great manifesta¬
tions are in preparation for you. I long to come again in
form ; it must be on a cold night. “ ‘ B. F.’
“ On another evening I wrote a number of questions for Dr.
Franklin to answer, which was done categorically in writing,
on cards, which I also send to you. I think it only necessary
to claim especial attention to the following :—
“ ‘ Questions for Dr. Franklin.
“ ‘ No. 1.—For a test, I wish you to give me the year of your
birth ?
“ ‘ No. 2.—Also that of your departure ?
“ ‘ Answers.
“‘No. 1.—I was born in the year 1706.
“ ‘ No. 2.—Departed the earth-life in the year 1790, after a
calm struggle for life on the night of April 17th, a little before
midnight. ’*
“ The questions were put by me without premeditation, and
without being seen by any one ; and it is most important that
I should add, neither 1 nor the medium knew the date of Dr.
Franklin's birth or death, which, on reference afterwards, I
was pleased and surprised to find had been correctly given by
the spirit. “ J. F. Livermore.”
Reports of J&eetmgg.
THE SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
A SERMON BY A SPIRIT.
Yesterday week, on Sunday evening, Mr. J. J. Morse,
trance-medium, conducted the service at the Cavendish
Booms, and at the close an address was given to those present
by a spirit, through his mediumship.
At the beginning of the service, the following hymn was
sung ; it is taken from one of the poems of Longfellow, the
Spiritualist:—
ANGEL FOOTSTEPS.
“ When the hours of day are numbered
And the voices of the night
Wake the better soul that slumbered
To a holy, calm delight:
, “ Ere the evening lamps are lighted,
And, like phantoms grim and tall,
Shadows from the fitful firelight
Dance upon the parlour wall:
“ Then the forms of the departed
Enter at the open door;
The beloved ones, the true-hearted
Come to visit me once more.
“ With a slow and noiseless footstep
Come the messengers divine,
Take the vacant chair beside me,
Lay their gentle hands in mine.
“ And they sit and gaze upon me
With those deep and tender eyes,
Like the stars, so still and saint-like,
Looking downward from the skies.
“ Uttered not, yet comprehended,
Is the spirit’s voiceless prayer—
Soft rebukes in blessings ended,
Breaking from their lips of air.”
Mr. Morse then said that he felt impressed by his attendant
spirits to read the 25th chapter of Matthew, beginning at the
thirty-first verse. The portion read contained the following
statement:— ,
“ Then shall He say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from Me, ye
cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.”
The reading of the verses from the New Testament was
followed by another hymn, beginning with the lines :—
“ Shall we gather at the river,
Where bright angel feet have trod,
With its crystal tide for ever
Flowing by the throne of God.”
When the singing of this hymn was finished, Mr. Morse
asked those present to have patience for a few minutes, while
one of the spirit friends present took control of him. He
then sat down in a chair, soon became insensible, and was
controlled by his guardian spirit Tien Sien Tie, who says that
in earth-life he was a mandarin of the second order, who
passed away at Pekin, about one hundred and twenty years
ago.
Under the control of this spirit, Mr. Morse stood up, with
his eyes closed, near the lecture table, and Tien said that the
subject of the evening’s discourse would be “ The contrast
between the orthodox teachings of the English Church and
the philosophy of Spiritualism.” The spirit added that in
investigating the merits of any religious philosophy, the
* “ On the 17th of April, 1790, about 11 o’clock at night, he quietly ex¬
pired, closing a long and useful life of 84 -years and three months.”—Vide
Life of Benjamin Franklin.
chief point which should be kept in view was—“ Is it suitable
to meet the requirements of mankind?”—and although it
might sound harsh, he must state at the outset, that from his
point of view the teachings of the Church fail in this respect.
The value of a religion or philosophy might be viewed in two dis¬
tinct ways. In the first place, would it tend to give a manpower
to improve his moral and political position ? would it teach
him what he has to do to improve himself physically, and why
he has to do it ? and would it teach him how to live in har¬
mony with the laws of nature ? In the second place, would it
give him accurate knowledge of spiritual conditions, to. fit
him for his future life ? Would it show him his relations to
God, and God’s relations to him, in order to teach him what
he is as a soul or spirit ? From his point of view, the ortho¬
dox teachings of the Church wholly fail to meet the require¬
ments of man upon any of the points mentioned. The
Church teaches what is taught in the chapter which the
medium, very much to his own astonishment, had been im¬
pressed to read in the early part of the evening, namely, that
after death there is a finality to the work of the spirit, and
that many spirits will receive the harsh final sentence—“ Go
into everlasting fire!” For his own part, he could never
reverence a Being he was obliged to fear, and the constant
dread that for some slight theological error he was in danger
of eternal damnation, would constantly harass and perplex
his mind. It is so with many inside the Church ; but when
any of these say with one of old, “ come and let us reason
together” upon this subject, they are coldly repulsed: such
men in time pass outside the pale of the Church, and become
religious outcasts. Did not the bright spirits above know that
there are better things in store for suffering humanity, their
grief would be great indeed. How do men obtain knowledge
about the next life ? Orthodox Churches say that the know¬
ledge is obtained by direct revelation from an overruling
God. Is such communication possible, and if so, by what laws -
is it governed ? All information handed down to us shows
that the men of old were natural men, and had not super¬
natural brains. It is absolutely certain that the amount of
perfection of the expression of thought depends upon the
formation of the brain ; the finer the brain, the more do
thoughts flow from it, broad, deep, clear, and bright; un¬
developed brains express thoughts which disgrace dumb brutes,
If it be granted that these brains can be raised into a super¬
natural state, so as to come into direct contact with the
infinite intelligence of the Deity, and if it be granted that
during this temporary exaltation the soul is brightened, and
the organs of expression are improved in action, as was the
case with the trance-medium then before them, still man is
finite, and can only give out finite ideas, otherwise the man
must be equal to the Deity. On these grounds, the union by
revelation between God and man has not been accomplished,
and rests only upon tradition and fable. In the days of old,
when the spiritual perceptions of a man were opened, as he
believed that “ every good and perfect thing came from God,”
he jotted down his own thoughts as coming from the God¬
head ; future generations built upon this supposition,
erecting upon it theory after theory, so that the more
the scientist explores this field the more does he
prove the unsubstantial character of the whole fabric,
and this is the reason of the growing triumph of mate¬
rialism. He could not see that these theories of the orthodox
Church were founded upon truth. When asked for explana¬
tions, the Church says, “ A mystery! A mystery ! Man must
not be presumptuous ; he must not inquire for himself.” But
man will inquire, by working and reasoning. He might take
all the orthodox Churches, and hold them up to view in a way
which his hearers would not like. Before a man founds a re¬
ligion or accepts a religion, he should' know how far it is com¬
petent to meet his necessary wants. If the question be raised,
“ What necessity was there for a Saviour ? ” the whole subject
would be found to be beset with such difficulties that man
instinctively rejects it, and feels that it was an idea started
when the human mind was much lower and less developed
than now. The reason why God in later times is described as
a Being to be loved, and in olden times as fierce and terrible,
is because the minds of men had grown between the twp
periods ; man at last has ceased to look upon nature in her
external fierceness; science sees a use in everything, even in
the lightning’s flash, and in the storm. The higher and the
nobler we make our Deity, the humbler do we become. If we
act out sin for ourselves, by a process of natural law we must
take the punishment of that sin, and there are none among us
so perfect as never to make mistakes. In tracing the state¬
ments of the prophets downwards, a gradual improvement is
seen in their revelations, owing to the gradual disappearance
of ignorance, and intelligent men at the present day know
well that the idea of eternal punishment is absurd, unjust, and
not to be thought of in connection with the Deity. The ortho¬
dox Church is not only wanting in its teachings in this respect,
but if it be asked for any instructions about man as a physical
being, it is silent, so that a different order of men has arisen
to explore these and other fields of knowledge, and the revela-
tions made to them as the result of their persevering work are
so grand, and conflict so with the established faith, that the
latter seems to be founded upon a sandhill. If a man ask the
Established Church, “ Why did I fall ? ” can it give a satis¬
factory answer, or will it say that such questions are “ pre¬
sumptuous ? ” Do the facts of nature agree with the teach¬
ings of religion established by law—“established by law” to
make others think as it thinks; the sooner such an unjust
force is abolished, the better for the world. Another objec¬
tionable feature of orthodox teachings is that they are
enshrouded in so much mist and fog, and where there is my¬
sticism, either those who teach it know little of it, or else the
subject is so mythical that it is of very little use, and had
better be discarded. Turning to another part of the subject,
“ What is the use of Spiritualism ? ” A religion must have
within itself those things which will meet the requirements of
mankind. Many of you hold circles, and loving spirits, you
knew on earth, come and tell of what is passing in their bright
and happy homes, and they talk to you just as they did before
they left. So you go away and tell these things, and say,
“ This is Spiritualism.” Other minds, of an opposite nature,
form a circle to question spirits upon other subjects ; they
also go forth with the knowledge they have gained, and say to
the world, “ This is Spiritualism.” The world says, “ You tell
me so and so, whilst other Spiritualists tell me so and
so; so amid these conflicting tales I had better stop
where I am.” But the very fact that Spiritualism meets the
wants of all orders of mind, which were never made to be
alike, shows that it can fully and adequately meet all the re¬
quirements of mankind. From my point of view, Spiritualism
itself consists of the philosophy which may be deduced from
the whole range of the phenomena; for the phenomena rest
upon laws, principles, and facts, which will enable a man to
stand like a rock before every kind of opposition and supersti_
tion, so that nothing can blow him from his position. Spirit
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 15, 1870.
nalism proves that if a man die, he shall live again; and as we
trace its teachings step by step upwards, it shows the true re¬
lations of man to man, of man to woman, and of woman to
woman. It tells how to train the young, and to improve their
physical organisation. It does good to man, as a spiritual
being, by proving to him that there is a world beyond the
grave, and by giving him practical knowledge of it; it is pos¬
sible for some men to enter that world, and to come back and
say what they have sieen. I say it is possible, because it is
natural. There is a death-like condition producible in some
persons, whereby the intelligent principle can leave the body,
and prove that under such circumstances it goes to distant
places, and sees distant scenes ; there are laws governing these
strange wanderings of the king within. Why does not this
knowledge come to you through the orthodox Churches?
When they tell you of the condition of the soul after death,
do they give you a single good, clear, tangible fact to lay hold
of? In the philosophy of Spiritualism such questions are
abundantly answered ; many Spiritualists have died, have
risen again in the better land, and have narrated their experi¬
ence. When a man travels in a foreign country, without
having learnt anything whatever about it previously, he is
subjected to much trouble, expense, bother, and disappoint¬
ment, whereas the man who has gained some little knowledge
about the country beforehand, is better prepared to enter it.
Just so is it with those who gain some reliable knowledge of
spiritual life beforehand. The angel world is now descending
from its happy home, laden with delicious flowers and fruits,
which the bearers hold to your mouths and nostrils, yet you
refuse their proffered love and reject their lessons. You turn
them from your doors, you are insensible to their lute-like
voices, and they return to their happy homes in sorrow; in
the next world you will have to learn for yourselves, by hard
experience, those lessons which they come to teach. Listen
then to those who come with such blessings to poor mortality.
Do the orthodox teachings or those of Spiritualism produce
the best results ? From my point of view the orthodox teach¬
ings can never achieve the results they aim at; their theories
are formed in ignorance and error. Those theories may have
been suitable enough for the times in which they were given ;
but since then intelligence and thought have grown, and we
want something more sensible and substantial;: we ask ortho¬
doxy for bread and it gives us stones. At the spirit circle we
do not sacrifice our reasoning powers; we keep our senses
about us, and we only accept what is demonstrated to our
understanding ; at those circles we are improved by the balmy
breezes coming from the silent sea, and we feel that it is good
to receive the invisible messengers. I leave it with you to
accept what you please of the teachings of this evening; 1
cannot force you, and would not, if, I could. Peace be with
you. Amen.
The proceedings then closed.
MRS. TYNDALL ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following letter on “Dr. Newton, the Healing Medium,”
is extracted from the Birmingham Daily Post of Saturday,
July 30th, and it is asserted to be written by a lady who is
related to Professor Tyndall:—
“ Sir,—As the above highly gifted physician is about to visit
our town, to cure all who have faith in his powers (which, if
he possess such, must be derived from God), and without
investigation you have hastily designated it as ‘ a system of
imposture,’ ‘ miserable delusion,’ * new heresy,’ ‘ shameful,’
‘ mischievous,’ &c., I must beg of you, in a spirit of Christian
love and truth, to insert these few lines in vindication of the
character of this singularly disinterested man.
“ I have myself ascertained the fact of Dr. Newton having
cured a dying man in Liverpool, who had burst a blood¬
vessel the previous day, and who had kept his bed from
December last from a similar attack. An eminent physician
in Liverpool pronounces him quite well now. I could give
the names and addresses of several persons, men and women,
who have been cured of paralysis, lameness and blindness, by
Dr. Newton; but it was said of old, of some people, if one
should be raised from the dead, they would not believe ! Dr.
Newton says of his own gifts, ‘ The power of healing is an
illustration of the power of love. When I became a Christian
in life, these spiritual gifts were showered upon me; they
were as great a wonder to myself as to those who received
them !’ Jesus Christ says, ‘ a new commandment I give unto
you, that ye love one another.’ How few men obey this
Divine law. \
“Another case of cure by Dr. Newton is the following :—
The Rev. T. R. Young, of Swindon, was not only a minister of
the Gospel, but a believer in it. He believed that gracious
word of his Master : ‘The works that I do shall ye do also,’
and when evidence was brought before him of the cures
wrought by Dr. Newton in America, so strong was his faith
that he crossed the Atlantic to be cured. His faith was re¬
warded by an immediate cure of severe neuralgia, which had
afflicted him for many years preceding. He also received
through Dr. Newton the gift of healing himself, and now uses
it freely in his own town and neighbourhood.
“ What may be the rationale of this mode of treatment,
how far it coincides with and wherein it differs from ordinary
mesmerism, may be found interesting matters of speculation.
“ We admit that little is known of the reason of it, though
we should have thought that in a country where Christianity
and the Bible form a part of the common law of the land, we
should not have found persons so ignorant of the possibility
of healing by laying on of hands in the olden time. Then, in
the country where we have a' literature and large libraries,
we should have supposed that many of our educated people
would have known that all through history there are instances ,
of this healing power occurring.
“ But, apart from this, we should be glad to know why a
benevolent gentleman cannot assert this power in his own
person and endeavour to exercise it at his own cost, without
drawing down on himself the blind ferocity of the press and
the public. We wish some healer could be found who could
cure this public madness.
“ It is because Dr. Newton is a Spiritualist that I believe
many good people look suspiciously at him. A distinguished
American clergyman, who now belongs to that sect, answered
a sceptical friend as to its beneficial tendencies thus: ‘ It gives
demonstration of a future existence, for even clear-headed men
often ask the question, “If a man die, shall he live again?”
Once, as a clergyman, I attended a funeral of an only child.
My text was “ Suffer little children to come unto me, and
forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven.” The
whole of my sermon was about faith, but as the mother bap¬
tised the coffin with her tears, she turned and said to me,
“Tell me what you know about the immortal world; my
aching heart asks for more than faith—for knowledge.” , She;
added, “ Tell me what you know of that world ; shall I know
my child? Will my child know me?” and I was dumb. I
now no longer talk about “faith,” for “We know that we
have a house eternal in the heavens.” ’
“ Spiritualism not only teaches but proves that there is an
immortal life beyond the tomb.
“ Emma Tyndall.”
MR. W. CROOKES, F.R.S., ON SPIRITUALISM.
20, Mornington-road, London, N.W.,
April 12, 1870.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I beg to forward a letter which I have just received
from an anonymous correspondent, and which the writer
wishes to see acknowledged in your next number. Perhaps
you may deem it worth printing.
Regarded from a scientific stand-point, our great object
now is to ascertain facts, and to sift as closely as possible
truth from falsehood. If the phenomena are genuine, the
enquirer has nothing to do with the fate of “ cherished pre¬
conceptions,” or where the “necessary consequences” will
land “ boasted physical knowledge.”
It seems to be overlooked that the result of enquiry can
only be to convince a certain number of people of the truth
(or the reverse) of these phenomena or opinions. Investiga¬
tion will not have the effect of suddenly bringing into exist¬
ence new laws, phenomena, or forms of force. Recognition
does not involve creation. Whatever we satisfy ourselves is
true, will have been true from the beginning, and therefore
it is unphilosophical to assume that there must immediately
arise an antagonism between physical truths, which all recog¬
nise, and others which are only now being brought to light.
The truths have all along run in harmony side by side, and
there is no reason to suppose that the balance of nature will
be interfered with if a few investigators are enabled to lift
one corner of the veil which has hitherto appeared to divide
them. William Cuook.es.
Swansea, South Wales, 11th August, 1860.
William Orookes, Esq., F.B.S.
Sie,—As a constant reader of the Quarterly Journal of Science, I have,
with the greatest surprise, perused—repeatedly and most carefully—your
contribution on the subject of “ Spiritualism.” I must confess that until I
satisfied myself of the bond fides of the writer, I could not bring myself to
the belief that it really was what it purported to be, or the author who and
what it now really appears that he is—a gentleman of veracity and high
scientific status.
Is there, then, in sober seriousness, any truth in the alleged manifestations
of the so-called Spiritualistic manipulators? The complete bouleverse-
ment of almost all our cherished preconceptions, and pseudo-philosophical
deductions, must be the necessary consequences of the proved existence of
such interruptvoe and immeasurable forces and agencies 1
What becomes of our much boasted physical knowledge, and what a
lesson for poor, weak, erring, egotistic human nature!
Of spiritual influences I have never doubted, at least since the period at
which I could take hold of the fact that a Divine revelation has been
vouchsafed to man, but of such eccentric and'apparently objectless inter¬
ference of immaterial beings with the course and order of nature, I could
certainly not have dreamed, much less believed in.
As I understood your present position with reference to this vexata
questio, it is simply and entirely tentative. I was greatly struck by the
perusal of several portions of your most interesting contribution, especially
that part in which you speak of having encountered certain difficulties,
and quasi-soientiflc paradoxes. I most sincerely trust that your researches
may be as far as possible exhaustive, and that you will, as far as scientific
tests can be applied, apply them—by no means in a spirit of bravado, or with
any egotistic surroundings—but simply and solely with a steady aim to
bring out truth, and to induce others to follow in a similar track of in¬
vestigation.
I have been a dabbler in (so called) science for many years, am by pro¬
fession a solicitor of about a century’s standing, and am (I trust) of a simple
lover of, and humble seeker after Truth. I have never “assisted " at a
stance with the exception of three or four crude attempts at “ table turning,”
now some fourteen to sixteen years ago, in which, by-the-bye, I never suc¬
ceeded, when personally engaging, nor have I in any case where I have
been a witness to the efforts of others, been more successful—uniform and
complete failures having been the invariable result.
I cannot, however, for one moment, presume to call in question the fact
of such phenomena, as we have this evidence upon the most irrefragable
testimony. On the other hand, I cannot accept Faraday’s solution as a'
complete or satisfactory one. I have heard many very strange revelations
from dear friends, but (as I have already said) have never yet witnessed
any such phenomena.
That there are “more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in
our (very meagre) philosophy,” I am most willing to admit, as my own
opinion; in fact, all my researches only tend to convince me that we are
only on “the threshold” of our journey, if, indeed, we have approached by
the legitimate entrance, which I must take the liberty of doubting. Our
investigations are usually undertaken in too atheistical a spirit, and we talk
by far too much of nature, and too little of Providence.
It would be too much to expect that an anonymous writer should receive
any recognition at the hands of an acknowledged Professor of Science, or,
indeed, at the hands of any self-respecting man, except under the most
exceptional circumstances.
Should you, however, think proper to acknowledge, in any manner, the
receipt of this communication in the next number of The Spiritualist—a
journal that I have regular access to—I shall feel myself under a great
obligation to you, and I trust need scarcely add, that I shall be guided in my
future course, as regards this subject, by the character of your notice of
this letter, should you condescend to take any notice whatever of it.
With many apologies, and with a deep feeling of respect for your r e-
searches, and an earnest desire that they may be attended with the utmost
success,—I have the honour to subscribe myself,
Your most obedient servant,
“ Enquirer.”
Last Friday’s Athenaeum contains a long review of Mrs.
Hardinge’s History of American Spiritualism.
Mr. and Mrs. Guppy have just arrived in London from
Naples. Mrs. Guppy is a noted medium for physical mani¬
festations of an extraordinary character.
Shortly before he left London, Mr. J. M. Peebles wrote
a small book entitled Jesus: Myth, Mam, or God, ? It is
published by Mr, Bums. The author reviews some articles
written by Mr. William Howitt, and published in the Spiritual
Magazine.
The Literary World of August 5th and August 12 th, gives
its readers much information about Spiritualism, in the shape
of several pages of matter extracted from Mrs. Hardinge’s
book. The editor, also, does not prefix or add to the quota¬
tions any of the usual newspaper abuse and misrepresentation.
The two numbers mentioned deserve to be largely purchased
and circulated by Spiritualists.
Seances at the Spiritual Library.—A few weeks
ago semi-public seance was held at 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury, to witness manifestations which occur in the
presence of two non-professional mediums, Mrs. Bassett and
Mrs. Collier. Mr. Collier, of Forest Gate, arranged the circle.
In consequence of the circle being too large, the room too
small, and several interruptions taking place, manifestations
could only be obtained at intervals, but then they were very
good ones. We.hope to give full particulars of the medium-
ship of these ladies, after observing the manifestations under
more favourable conditions. The Friday evening stances
with Mr. Morse take place as usual, and a new arrangement
has been made, whereby bis attendant spirits will answer
questions of certain description's put to them by the public.
The Rev. J. Bums, D.D., who gave the use of his chapel
at Edgware-road, to enable Dr. Newton to heal the sick poor,
belongs to the Baptist denomination, and is a great temper¬
ance advocate.
Is it True ?—A recent number oi Human Nature, contains
an article by Mr. J. B. Loomis, of New York, setting forth
that Andrew Jackson Davis, the “Poughkeepsie Seer)” by
his clairvoyant revelations anticipated by some years the
leading discoveries of modem science. Mr. Loomis asserts—
“ The hydrogen flames of the Sun, and nearly all the conclu¬
sions recently arrived at by the aid of the spectroscope; the
life-beds at the ocean bottoms; the planet Neptune; Alcyone
as the centre of the grand universe to which our system
belongs; and many other things of like import, were put on
record by Mr. Davis years before science proved or even dis¬
covered them.” Is this true? If Mr. Loomis is able to give
the name, date, publisher, and place of publication of each
book, containing the record proving each of his assertions, we
will examine the books, sift the statements thoroughly, and
publish the results. Such strong assertions should not be
made unaccompanied by proof.
Sunday Evenings at the Cavendish Rooms.—Of late,
in consequence of people leaving town, and from other causes,
there has been a very thin attendance at the Sunday evening
services at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street. Mr. Morse, the medium, has, however, just begun to
lecture there in the trance state underspirit influence, and when
this is generally known the hall will soon be well filled
again. There are plenty of sermons and to spare everywhere
in London on Sunday evenings, but spirit communications are
very different things. Mr. Morse will be at the Cavendish
Rooms next Sunday evening and the Sunday after. He should
not be left by the managers, as at present, to conduct the
whole service himself, especially as half the time he is in an
abnormal state. A good chairman, older than himself, is
required to support him in the work during the evening. A
report of one of the addresses given through him is printed on
another page.
Seances with Mr. Herne. — On Monday evening,
August 1st, a public s&ance was held at 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.G., to witness manifestations through the profes¬
sional mediumship of Mr. Frank Herne. After sitting for
nearly two hours, none were obtained. Mr. J. J. Morse, who
was present, then, at the request of the company, sat for a
trance communication, and his guardian spirit said that “the
failure of the evening was due chiefly to the state of the
weather, and the bad electrical and magnetic atmospheric
conditions. Anxiety on the part of the medium was an ad¬
verse influence; also as a medium receives and absorbs impres¬
sions, the anxiety of those present, who had their thoughts
centred on the medium, increased the difficulties in the way
of communicating through him. If those present could see,
as the spirits did, the thought-rays flashing to and fro in the
room, his last statement would not then appear to be so ab¬
surd as some of the listeners might think it to be. One useful
purpose had been served by meeting, for it proved the honesty
of the medium and sitters, otherwise something resembling
manifestations might have been witressed despite the state of
of the atmosphere, and of the mind of the medium.” The
weather was warm, damp, misty, and unpleasantly close. Just
before the circle broke up a brief trance communication was
given through Mr. Herne. The manifestations through this
medium vary considerably; it is possible to have one or two
seances with him and to get little or nothing, yet at another
sitting to witness a great deal. Dr. Dixon, of 8, Great Ormond-
street, has published an account of how at a seance a few days
ago, he and others saw the body of Mr. Herne lengthened and
expandedin the first instance, then shortened and diminished,
as is sometimes the case with Mr. Home. Mr. O. W. Pearce,
of 6, Cambridge-road, The Junction, Kilburn,N.W., has written
an account in The Medium, narrating how a few months ago,
he went to a public seance with Mr. Herne, at 2, Great Coram-
street, Bloomsbury. Although the medium and all present were
entire strangers to Mr. Pearce, Mr. Herne at once said that he
could see several spirit relatives near Mr. Pearce, and he gave
him correctly their names. A member of the Dialectical
Society, Mr. Maurice, of 2, Langham-place, Regent’s-street,
was among the witnesses present. Mr. Pearce writes that
when the trance communications were over, “ the medium sat
quietly for a few moments, then rose from his chair, and,
standing upright, began to increase in bulk to so great an
extent that he reminded me of the fable of the frog and the bull;
or, to give a clearer understanding of his appearance, he more
resembled Hales, the Norfolk giant, who was exhibited in
London some years since. His body was inflated and his chest
expanded so much that his coat fell off his shoulders, and his
trunk was so elongated that there was a space of between six
and eight inches between the top of his trousers and the
bottom of his waistcoat; he then spoke to us in an unknown
tongue for the space of two or three minutes. He then sat
down in his chair, and gradually returned to his normal size.
When the control was released, he was unconscious of what
had passed, except from the disordered state of his dress. Of
course, we spent a few minutes talking over this extraordinary
phenomenon, much regretting we had not measured his height,
breadth, and girth, when we were surprised to see the same
phenomenon repeated, whereupon, not having a measure
wherewith to measure him, one of our number, who stands
about 5 feet 10 inches, and proportionately broad, compared
himself with him, and we made the following observations,
viz., that Mr. Herne stood about four inches higher and pro¬
portionately broader than he was—giving, as near as we
could estimate, an elongation of eight inches, and a dis¬
tension of bulk of about six inches. Upon questioning the
reason for this manifestation, we were told it was for the
especial benefit of Mr. Maurice, who, being an earnest
seeker for truth, needed a manifestation of the kind to
convince him of spiritual control over mortals. In esti¬
mating the value of the foregoing, it should be remem¬
bered that I was a perfect stranger to all present (at
least I. may say I never saw one of the company, or the
medium, before I entered the room and joined the circle); not¬
withstanding, I was immediately addressed by name. An
aunt, a sister of my father’s, who had been twenty-seven years
in the Summer-Land, was announced both by name and rela
tionship. My daughter, who had been away from us for two
years, made known her presence to us, and the object of her
visit, viz., to relieve her brother of pain, thereby showing a
knowledge of our bodily health by our friends in the next
state of existence; and further—the knowledge of the suitable
manifestation to convince an honest doubter of the reality of
spirit-control, as shown in the elongation and distension of
Mr. Herne, in order to prove to Mr. Maurice an existence be¬
yond this, capable of returning and influencing humanity.
Thank God for it!—G, W. -Pearce.”
August 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
CHAKGES FOE. ADYEETISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Kalf-a-guinea per sixth of a
column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willbe,l displayed” so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, Balf-n-crdwn per first Jive lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to ine rt any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. ALLEN, Ave M.aria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C.
Co Comspoofomfs.
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul’s Church-yard, London, E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be indented.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
Co SttbscriEcrs.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regu¬
larly by penny post to subscribers, who remit six shillings in payment to Mr.
E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-ehurchyard, E.C.
No notice will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
MONDAY, AVGUST 15, 1870.
SPIEIXUAIiISM AND SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES.
Of late some attention has been drawn to the rela¬
tionship existing between Spiritualism and the scientific
world, so that it may he useful to consider this subject
a little in detail. The following historical summary
will help us to make the facts of the case clear:—•
In the beginning of the year 1848, startling and inexplicable noises were
heard in the house of Mr. John D. Fox, farmer, in the little village of
Hydesville, Wayne County, New York. The noises grew louder, the patter
of footsteps was heard about the house, chairs and tables began to move
with nobody touching them, and one night Miss Kate Fox had all the
clothes pulled off her bed by an invisible power, and a cold hand was
passed over her face. For the first month or two the family were much
terrified by these extraordinary things, and prayed with all the vigour of
true Methodism to be relieved from such manifestations, but the human
mind can accommodate itself to anything, -and in time their terror died
away. Then little Kate Fox accidentally discovered that the rapping noises
were governed by intelligence, and would rap at particular letters when the
alphabet was called over, to spell out messages. The raps then professed
to come from “Charles B. Kosma,” a pedlar, who said that he had been
murdered in the house, and buried in the cellar. The ground was conse¬
quently dug up, and a human skeleton was found at the depth of five feet.
After a time the invisible communicant said that if a few persons would sit
round a table so as to form a “spirit circle,” it would facilitate the produc¬
tion of raps, and enable many spirits to send messages. Such was the
beginning of the modem spiritual movement. Where will the end be ?
Of course only those who saw these strange things for themselves, be¬
lieved in their reality, but these witnesses formed spirit circles in their own
homes, and thus the phenomena spread, until at the present time the Spiri¬
tualists in America number many millions. Mr. Hepworth Dixon estimates
them at about three millions; and from this, the lowest estimate, other
authorities vary the number up to about eleven millions. In the twenty-two
years which have since elapsed, American Spiritualism has built for itself
a literature of about a thousand volumes. After striking root in America,
the movement gained a footing in England in a few private families,
and first began to attract public attention here, from fifteen to seventeen
years ago. Since then, in spite of the opposition which all young organisms
in nature have to undergo, and in spite of oceans of newspaper abuse and
untruth in the London daily journals, the movement has spread steadily.
Its supporters here are now to be counted by thousands, instead of by hun¬
dreds, and there are few towns in the nation of any importance where
spirit circles do not meet regularly.
Startling phenomena like those incidental to Spirit¬
ualism, cause great agitation in the public mind wher¬
ever they take root, and, to quote one of Dr. Newton’s
sayings, “Agitation of thought is the beginning of
wisdom.” Many of the public cry out for “ investi¬
gation,” hut never dream of asking their theological
teachers to do the wor^:; on the contrary they turn to
the scientific world, because it includes the cream of
the brains and intelligence of the country. Spiritualists,
also, would be glad of any information tending to throw
light on the laws which govern the manifestations ; not
a few of our body, therefore, at different times asked
Faraday to investigate. On one occasion Sir Emerson
Tennant asked Faraday to attend a seance with Mr.
Home, and Faraday, in reply, demanded answers from
Mr. Home to the following questions, among others,
before he would attend:—
“ Would he (Mr. Home) be glad if their delusive character were established
and exposed, and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he be
annoyed and personally offended ?
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural f If natural, what
are the laws that govern them ?• Or does he think that they are not subject
to laws ? If supernatural, does he suppose them to be miracles or the work
of spirits ? If the work of spirits, would an insult to the spirits be con¬
sidered as an insult to himself ?
“If the effects are miracles, or the work of spirits, does he admit the
utterly contemptible character both of them and their results, up to the
present time, in respect either of yielding information or instruction, or
supplying any force or action of the least value to mankind ?"
Mr. Home, of course, took no notice of a rough letter
like this, completely destitute of common civility.
Several years later, early in May, 1868, Mr. Home
wrote, in the Pall Mall Gazette, the following invita¬
tion to Professor Tyndall, who had previously beeu
abusing Spiritualists in print:—
“It will give me great pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall, and any two
gentlemen he shall designate. On my side I shall have at least two gentle¬
men, whose names and position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and these gentlemen when
and where they please, and under such circumstances as they may decide
on. I must only crave their patience if nothing should occur at the first, or
even the second, siance.”
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not taken
advantage of the favour offered to him by Mr. Home,
but a few days after the invitation was published, he
wrote to the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate, in the spirit of the
foregoing letter [the uncivil one written by Faraday, from which we have
just given some extracts] such phenomena as Mr. Home may wish to
reveal to me during the month of June.”
As Mr. Home never forces Spiritualism on the atten¬
tion of anybody, and Tiad no wish to reveal anything to
Professor Tyndall, or to come into contact with the
spirit of Faraday’s letter. Dr. Tyndall lost the privilege
of witnessing some of the most marvellous phenomena
of modern times.
About two years ago, the Dialectical Society asked, in
a civil manner, for facilities for the investigation of
Spiritualism. The boon was granted. A committee of
the society then collected testimony from Spiritualists,
and witnessed many of the manifestations themselves ;
they had the manifestations on their own premises,
over and over again, and one of their number became
a medium. At intervals, during the last six months,
they have held meetings with closed doors, to draw up
a report, but only agreed tolerably as to its contents, a
few weeks ago. The report is not yet published, but
rumours, which there is little doubt are well founded,
say that it states that the investigating committee
unanimously admit the phenomena of Spiritualism to
be true, and not delusion t or imposture ; also, that the
committee are divided in opinion, as to whether or no
the manifestations originate with disembodied spirits.
Many individual men of science have investigated
Spiritualism, ascertained its truth, and a few among
them have borne public testimony thereunto; foremost
among these are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., Mr. A. E.
Wallace, F.L.S., the late Lord Brougham, and Professor
De Morgan, president of the Mathematical Society of
London. Among the men of science who have recently
begun to investigate Spiritual phenomena, is one who
does not keep silence about the results of his inquiry,
and that one is Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S. He
testifies that he is as certain that the physical phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism are real, as he is of the most
elementary facts in chemistry; that whether the mani¬
festations are produced by disembodied spirits he does
not know, but will make this point the subject of future
inquiry. As Mr. Crookes, like some other scientific men,
might have kept silence on this subject, but has spoken
out as far, or nearly as far, as he feels the ground firm
under his feet, the censure showered upon him by some
of the Spiritualistic journals is not at all justifiable, and
we think does not represent the feeling of Spiritualists
as a body; it arose probably from an opinion that he
might have testified to a little more, and that the latter
part of his article in the Quarterly Journal of Science,
was not particularly flattering to Spiritualists as a body.
However, let that pass. Mr. Crookes has done more
than several of his fellows similarly circumstanced, and
he should be supported.
If all the men of science in England became
Spiritualists to-morrow morning, would it be to the
advantage of the movement? Probably not. Spiri¬
tualism has its religious as well as its scientific aspect,
and were the Spiritualists of to-day to be swamped by
the sudden influx of the whole scientific world, much
brain-power, it is true, would be added to the movement,
coupled with an undesirable spiritual element. Does the
general spirit of the British Association fairly represent
the scientific world ? If so, that spirit has always ex¬
cluded the poor from its meetings in all the towns it has
visited, and did not in any way permit them to share in
any of the benefits of the association, until three years
ago, when the solitary annual lecture for the benefit of
working men, but not of working women, was inaugu¬
rated at Dundee. Are such men fitted to be leaders in
a religious movement of a higher tone than the world,
has yet seen ? Decidedly “ No,” although at the same¬
time, with all their faults, they would probably form
better allies than any other class of English society.
The Eoyal Society, which excludes ladies from ite
soirees, and worships caste and political power as much
as it does science, is not fitted to take the lead in a
religious movement. These men have to he taught and
educated in many things, and we are going to teach
them. They must learn that Spiritualism proves that
there are beings in the next world, as high in love and
wisdom as ever seraphs or archangels were supposed to
be, but that they have worlcecl themselves up to that
elevation, for the destiny of man is “ eternal progres¬
sion.” However much a Fellow of the Eoyal Society
might like to make one of such high company, he will
first, here or hereafter, have to get rid of the little vices
which shut him out from it. He must learn that the
exclusion and depression of others, does not elevate, but
lowers himself, and that the only true source of happi¬
ness is, to give as much happiness as possible to others.
He must learn the truth of Kingsley’s words at the
Eoyal Institution, that “ a true aristocracy consists of
the best men in a community, banding together to raise
others to their own level, and willing to give up the
responsibility of governing directly they are called upon
to do so by the general voice.” As yet, the leaders of
the scientific world have not the love principle highly
developed, are not trying to raise those around
them to their own level, and are more imbued with
the general selfishness and ambition of the age, than
with the desire to promote universal human happiness.
Therefore, if some thousands of scientific men joined
us at once, they would probably injure the movement
considerably in its religious aspect.
Would their entrance into our ranks at once unravel
the laws which govern the phenomena? No. There
are as good scientific men connected with Spiritualism
as any outside the movement, but the idea of invisible
organised beings moving about in space which ought to
be filled only with the interstellar ether and vibrating
atoms, is a fact producing utter perplexity in the philo¬
sophical mind of the present day. They cannot recog¬
nise any of the known forces of nature at work in the
production of the manifestations, so are obliged to look
on like children, and instead of being able to speak with
authority, are compelled to sit still and be taught by those
who have had more lengthened experience in the obser¬
vation of the phenomena. It may be said that their
testimony as to the reality of the phenomena will aid
the movement. Well, just now we have scientific testi¬
mony amply sufficient to satisfy reasonable minds, and
to help to cause more pressure upon mediums and
spirit-circles than they are able to meet.
Manifestly, the best line of action, on the part of
Spiritualists towards the scientific world, is to take no¬
notice of it in any way whatever, but to aid individual
scientific men who come and ask for facilities for inves¬
tigating. Spiritualism has now more or less hold in
every town of importance in the kingdom; week after
week, at all the circles, fresh investigators learn for
themselves that Spiritualism is true, and that the scien¬
tific world is all at sea, and a false guide on this sub¬
ject. We, therefore, can afford to wait, and let time do
its work i whether the scientific world, as a body, can
afford to do the same, and look on quietly at the under¬
mining of its reputation, is its own business and not
ours. In the meantime the cream of scientific men—
those who search after truth anywhere, regardless of
public ridicule, conventionalities, and dogmatism—will
one by one investigate, and find that the portals of the
eternal world will roll open before the sincere searcher
after truth, and reveal to him a field of research teem¬
ing with glories such as never before were presented to
man in a scientific age.
Signor Damiani, of Clifton, has published a letter com¬
paring Mr. Crookes to the Professor of Philosophy at Pisa, who
refused to look through the telescope of Galileo when invited
to do so. This is not just, because Mr. Crookes has not refused
to observe Spiritual manifestations; on the contary hehas wit¬
nessed them, and publicly stated that they are real, and not
delusion or imposture. He has also announced that he will
follow up the inquiry further and publish the results. -
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 15, 1870
$oetrg.
MILITARY GLORY.
Since the publication of the lost number of this journal a most horrible
■and unjustifiable war has begun between France and Prussia. From the
accounts published in the newspapers, it seems that various schemes of
robbery and brigandage, such as would condemn any man in private life to
the hulks, were considered by the diplomatists of the two nations,' who,
however, could not agree. A war has now broken out between them,
and tens of thousands of men who have no quarrel with each other are
entering into murderous conflicts at the bidding of their rulers—a few posi¬
tive minds are leading on a mass of negative minds to do foolish things.
What a pity it is that soldiers have not brains and the power of using those
brains independently! If they had them, they would take Bismarck, the
Emperor of the French, and the few politicians and diplomatists who
originated the war, put them in a circus together, make them do all the
fighting, then tar and feather the Victors, and give them a few years on the
treadmill. The moral effect of such a line of action would be tremendous,
tending to stop European wars for centuries to come; the patriotism of the
step would also be beyond all praise, for the inhabitants of France and
Prussia would know that their homes were secure, and that as nations they
were free from murderous crimes. Our own Legislature, by meddling with
Continental politics, and guaranteeing the independence of one of the
European nations (Belgium) has rendered us liable to be dragged into this
war. The following lines by James Russell Lowell, are from the Biglow
Papers,* and show how Mr. Birdofredum Sawin, a common soldier, gained
experience in the Mexican war, as to the real value of military glory:—
I spose you wonder ware I be; I can’t tell, fer the soul o’ me,
Exacly ware I be myself—meanin’ by thet the holl o’ me.
Wen I let hum, I hed two legs, an’ they wom’t bad ones neither
(The scaliest trick they ever played wuz bringin’ on me hither),
Now one on!era's I dunno ware;—they thought I wuz adyln’,
An’ sawed it off, because they said ’twuz kin’ o’ mortifyin’;
I’m Willin’ to believe it wuz, an’ yit I don’t see, nuther,
Wy one should take to feelin’ cheap a minnit sooner ’n t’other,
Sence both wuz equilly to blame; but things is ez they be
It took on so they took it off, an’ thet’s enough fer me:
There’s one good thing, though, to be said about my wooden new one—
The liquor can’t get into it ez’t used to in the true one;
So it saves drink; an’ then, besides, a feller could n’t beg,
A gretter blessin’ then to hev one oilers sober peg;
It’s true a chap’s in want o’ two fer follerin’ a drum,
But all the march I’m up to now is jest to Kingdom Come.
I’ve lost one eye,,but thet’s a loss it’s easy to supply
Out o’ the glory thet I’ve gut, fer thet is all my eye;
An’ one is big enough, I guess, by diligently usin’ it,
To see all I shall ever git by way o’ pay fer losin’ it;
Off’cers, I notice, who git paid fer all our thumps an’ kickins,
Du wal by keepin’ single eyes arter the fattest pickins;
So, ez the eye’s put fairly out, I’ll lam to go without it,
And not allow myself to be no gret put out about it.
Now, le’ me see, thet is n’t all; I used, ’fore leavin’ Jaalam,
To count things on my flnger-eends, butsutthin' seems to ail ’em:
Ware’s my left hand ? O, dam it, yes, I recollect wut’s come on’t;
I haint no left arm but my right, an’ thet’s gut jest a thumb on’t;
It aint so hendy ez it wuz to calc'late a sum on’t.
I ’ve hed some ribs broke,—six (I b’lieve),—I haint’ kep’ no account on ’em;
Wen pensions git to be the talk, I'll settle the amount on ’em.
An’ now I’m speakin’ about ribs, it kin' o’ brings to mind
One thet I could n’t never break,—the one I lef’ behind;
Ef you should see her, jest clear out the spout o’ your invention
An’ pour the longest sweetnin’ in about an annooal pension,
An' kin' o' hint (in case, you know, the critter should refuse to be
Consoled) I aint so ’xpensive now to keep ez wut I used to be ;•
There’s one arm less, ditto one eye, an’ then the leg thet’s wooden
Can be took off an’ sot away wenever theri’s a puddin’.
I spose you think I’m cornin’ back ez opperlunt ez thunder,
With shiploads o’ gold images, an’ varus sorts o’ plunder ;
Wal, 'fore I volunteered, I thought this country wuz a sort o’
Canaan, a reg’lar Promised Land flowin’ with rum an’ water,
Ware propaty growed up like time, without no cultivation,
An’ gold wuz dug ez taters be among our Yankee nation, .
Ware nateral advantages were pufficly amazin’,
Ware every rock there wuz about with precious stuns wuz blazin’,
Ware mill-sites filled the country up ez thick ez you could cram ’em,
An’ desput rivers run about abegging’ folks to dam ’em;
Then there were meetinhouses, tu, chockful o’ gold an’ silver
Thet you could take, an’ no one could n’t hand ye in no bill fer;—
Thet’s wut I thought afore I went, thet’s wut them fellers told us
Thet stayed to hum an’ speechifled an’ to the buzzards sold us;
I thought thet'gold mines could be gut cheaper than china asters,
An!.,see myself acomin’ back like sixty Jhcob Astors;
But'sech'idees soon melted down an’ did n’t leave a grease-spot;
I vow my holl sheer o’ the spiles would n’t come nigh a Y spot;
Although, most any wares we’ve ben, you need n’t break no locks,
Nor run no kin’ o’ risks, to fill your pocket full,o’ rocks.
I guess I mentioned in my last some o’ the nateral feeturs
O’ this all-flered buggy hole in th’ way o’ awfle creeturs.
But I fergut to name (new things to speak on so abounded)
How one day you’ll most die o’ thust, an’ ’fore the next git drownded.
The clymit seems to me jest like a teapot made o’ pewter
Our Prudence hed, thet would n’t pour (all she could du) to suit her;
Fust place the leaves ’ould choke the spout, so’s not a drop 'ould dreen out,
The Prude ’ould tip an’ tip an’ tip, till the holl kit bust clean out,
The kiver-hinge-pin bein’ lost, tea-leaves an’ tea an’ kiver
’ould come down kerswosh! ez though the dam broke in a river.
Jest so’t is.here; holl months there ain’t a.day o’ rainy weather,.
An’ jest ez th officers ’ould be alayin’ heads together
Ez t’ how they’d mix their drink at sech a milingtary deepot,—
’T ’ould pour ez though the lid wuz off the everlastin’ teapot.
The cons’quence is, thet I shall take, wen I’m allowed to leave here,
One piece o' propaty along,—an’ thet’s the shakin’ fever;
It’s reggilar employment, though, an’ thet aint thought to harm one,
Nor’t aint so tiresome ez it wuz with t’ other leg an’ arm on;
An’ it’s a consolation, tu, although it does n’t pay,
To hev it said you ’fe some gret shakes in any kin’ o’ way.
’T, wom’t very long, I tell ye wut, I thought o’ fortin-makin’,—
One day a feg'lar shiver-de-freeze, an’ next ez good ez bakin’,—
One day abrilm’ in the sand; then smoth’rin’ in the mashes,—
Git up all sound, be put to bed a mess o’ hacks an’ smashes.
But (hen, thinks I, at any rate there’s glory to be hed,—
Thet’s an investment, arter all, thet may n’t turn out so bad;
But somehow, Wen we'd fit an’ licked, I oilers found the thanks
Gut kih’’ b’ lodged afore they come ez low down ez the ranks;
The Gm’fals gut the biggest sheer, the Cunnles next, an’ so on,—
We never gut a blasted mite o’ glory ez I know on;
An’ spqse.we hed, I wonder how you’re goin’ to contrive its
Division so’s to give a piece to twenty thousand privits;
Ef you should multiply by ten the portion o’ the brav’st one,
You would n’t git more ’n half enough to speak of on a grave-stun;
We git the licks;—we’re jest the grist thet’s put into War.'s hoppers;
Leftenants is the lowest, grade thet helps pick up the coppers, f
It may suit folks thet go agin a body with a soul in’t,
An’ aint contented with a hide without a bagnet hole in’t;
But glory is a kin’ o’ thing / shan’t pursue no furder,
Cpz thet’s the off’cers parquisite,—youm’s on’y jest the murder.
Wal, arter I gin glory up, thinks I at least there’s One
Thing in the bills we aint hed yit, an’ thet’s the GLORIOUS FUN;
Ef once we git to Mexico, we fairly may persurne we
All day an’ night shall revel in the halls o’ Montezumy.
I ’ll teU you wut my revels wuz, an’ see how you would like ’em;
We never gut inside the hall: the nighest ever / come
Wuz stan’in’. sentry in the sun (ah, fact, it seemed a cent’ry)
A ketchin’ smells o’ biled an’ roast thet come out thru the entry,
An’ hearin’, ez I sweltered thru my passes an’ fepasses,'
A rat-tat-too o’ knives an’ forks, a clinkty-clink o’ glasses:
I can’t tell off the bill o’ fare the Gin’rals hed inside
All I know is, thet opt o’ doors a pair b’ soles wuz fried,
An’ not a hundred miles away frum ware this, child wuz posted,
A Massachusetts citizen wuz baked an’ biled an’ roasted;
The on’y thing ilke reyellin’ thet eyer come to me
W uz bein’ routed out o’ sleep by thet darned revelee.
From various sources we hear that energetic steps will
be taken to establish much public lecturing on behalf of
Spiritualism, during the coming winter.
The Civilian of July 30th, contains an article narrating
some extraordinary phenomena said to be connected with
Spiritualism. A skull is stated to possess a strange power of
locomotioii, and of producing sounds ; and a clairvoyant
makes a discovery of a murder. As no names and addresses
are given, the stories lose weight in proportion.
* London: Trubner and Co. 1861.
(JTomspntience.
[Great freedom is given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
Sir,—I have read with great interest the article in the
Quarterly Journal of Science, by Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., and
the correspondence on the subject that has appeared in your
pages. For ten years I carefully investigated the phenomena
of modern Spiritualism, and it was not till the expiration of
that term that I publicly acknowledged that no known
natural laws would account for their occurrence, and that
no theory other than that which recognises the operation of
invisible incorporeal intelligences, would satisfactorily ac¬
count for the facts that are commonly recorded, and for the
thousands of psychological and physical phenomena I have
witnessed.
I am glad that Mr. Crookes has entered upon the investiga¬
tion of the subject, and I feel confident, from my own experi¬
ence, and from the experience of all candid persons with whom
I am acquainted, that his enquiries cannot end otherwise than
in the belief of the existence of occult forces directed by in¬
visible intelligences of some kind.
I feel confident that all that is required in order to revolu¬
tionise the opinions of the scientific world, in reference to the
vexed question of Spiritualism, is, that scientific men, as far as
practicable, lay aside prejudice, and enter fairly and fearlessly
upon an examination of the phenomena that by many are
recognised as spiritual. T. P. Barkas, F.G-.S.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, Aug. 6, 1870.
THE RELIGIOUS OPINIONS OF SPIRITS.
Sir,—I do not consider the reasons you assign for the dis¬
agreement in the communications made by “ spirits,” and the
diversified opinions of “Spiritualists” with reference to the
condition of the inhabitants of the other world to be at all
satisfactory. If the Bible does not contain a revelation from
God, then I can quite understand nearly all that Spiritualists
tell us of the modes of existence and occupation of disem¬
bodied spirits, although I should certainly not arrive at the
conclusion that they were now on a higher plane of existence
than while on earth, or that their wits were in any way
sharpened by the “ shuffling off of their mortal coil.” On
the other hand, if the teachings of the New Testament on
the subject be true, then it is not possible that one spirit
should make a communication wholly at variance with, and
in opposition to a communication made by another spirit,
unless they were evil, lying spirits, in which case, of course,
their acquaintance had better not be cultivated. I say it is
impossible that there should be this disagreement for this
reason, that, if the Bible be what it assumes to be, a revelation
from God to man, to teach him how to live here so as to be
prepared and fitted for an endless and blissful existence in
the future, and warning him of the dread consequences of
being unprepared, then every disembodied spirit must Imom
that such is the truth. There can be then no room for doubt
or opinion, and spirit communications, so far as they have
any bearing on Bible revelation, must be worthless. On
either hypothesis—that is, whether the teachingsof Christianity
be true or false, it is altogether beyond belief that the spirits
of the departed should return to their friends and be anxious
to converse with them on any and every subject but the
great subject that agitates the breast of every thoughtful
inhabitant of this world. I think it is not improbable that
evil spirits are permitted by God, for some wise and merciful
purpose, to communicate with men, not that their communica¬
tions are of any direct value) as . showing that-what ■ are
known as orthodox views of the states of the saved or lost
are either true or false ; at the same time they explode the
old infidel notion that “ death is an eternal sleep;” and it may
be that it is for this purpose that those evil spirits are
allowed to propagate what you must permit me to call the
errors of Spiritualism, that when all the changes of error
shall have been rung out, the truth of Scripture may shine the
brighter. Thomas Vaughan.
Kensington-gardens, Haverfordwest.
As already stated, a man after passing through the natural process called
“death,” is not at once changed morally dr mentally, and there, as here,
can only elevate himself by useful work and by good deeds. Devotees,
deeply imbued with one or other of the thousands of superstitions and
artificial religions upon this planet, cannot shake off their notions on such
subjects all at once, hence among .the lower orders of* disembodied spirits
many superstitions are prevalent. These spirits carry on the same forms
of worship on the next plane of existence which they did here; and teach
their opinions, as before, to the inhabitants of earth if they get a chance.
Of course, on first entering the next life, they find themselves in a very
different state of existence to that which their blind teachers had taught
them to expect. Swedenborg, who undoubtedly entered the next world,
tells how there are differences of opinion and of religion there. Some
Roman Catholic spirits made a very foolish disturbance last month at No.
972, Sixth-avenue, New York. You will find all the particulars in the last
number of Human Nature. We were at & siance a’few weeks ago, where
some Roman Catholic spirits were among those present. Mr. John Beattie,
of Westbourne-place, Clifton, was recently at a siance with Mr.' Home, where
a good old Quaker spirit manifested, and proved his personal identity.
In earth life he resided near Bristol. If you dispute these facts—and if you
wish sound knowledge, you should never believe anything which cannot be
proved, and not accept “ probabilities ” as “certainties ”—your right plan of
action is to get up a spirit circle among your own friends inyour own house.
Prolonged experience will then prove to you that there are religious differ¬
ences among spirits. Among those spirits you will probably find a few of
the closest and dearest of your former friends and relatives, and of course
you know best whether your intimate acquaintances are “evil,” so, we will
not question your present opinions on this point. Most mediums bear testi¬
mony that they find, as a: rule, spirits out of the body to be much better and
kinder than spirits in the body, though, being telegraphic instruments, such
mediums get communications from unpleasant spirits ■ sometimes'. The
best way to keep lying spirits out of the next world is to cease sending
them into it by thousands every year from this one.- Do not accept our
testimony on this subject, but try for yourself) and when you know what is
here stated to be a scientific truth, carry any theological difficulties- it may
raise in your mind to one of your paid theological teachers for the expla¬
nation which he is bound, as a matter of honour and a matter of business,
to give. Perhaps some of our readers, orthodox and unorthodox, can en¬
lighten you on the theological part of the question. We desire to aid you
and all outsiders who wish to investigate. When you start a private circle
and gain practical knowledge, we shall be glad to print any of the “errors ”
of Spiritualism you can expose.—Ed.
Inconsistency.—A recent number of tbe Saturday Review
contained an article abusing Dr. Newton and all his friends and
supporters, yet in another part of the same number of the same
journal, the following remarks are made about Mr. Alfred
Wallace, F.L.S., one of the Spiritualists who attended the
soiree convened to welcome Dr. Newton on his arrival in
England :—“ In his modest contributions to the theory of
natural selection, Mr. Wallace has brought to the aid of Mr.
Darwin’s important theory no mean amount of confirmation
and support, His high repute as a naturalist of logical and
observant mind, coupled with the width and variety of scale
on which his studies of nature have been carried on, must give
to his conclusions a scientific weight wholly beyond that of
the ablest criticism from a less special or authoritative stand¬
point.”
M. ALLAN EARDEC’S SPECULATIONS.
The ideas of M. Allan Kardec about “ reincarnation ’’ are
causing much discussion among Spiritualists in France, but
have little or no hold among Spiritualists in England and
America. Whenever we- have questioned spirits at circles,
about Allan Kardec’s speculations, the answers have been
adverse to his opinions, but as very few spirits in the body
are philosophers, it does not follow that the replies obtained
from those out of the body necessarily came from very high
intelligences. We object to publish any hypotheses in
connection with Spiritualism, without first printing the
evidence on which the ideas are based ; but in this instance,
as a gentleman—a Fellow of the Royal Society—has been
kind enough to make and forward to this journal a transla¬
tion of an article by Allan Kardec in the Revue Spirite, the
said translation is here given. Assuming reincarnation to be
a reality, the following article makes out a good case in illus¬
tration of its use ; but it is best to suspend judgment on the
whole subject till the evidence for and against it is before us,
and then to approach the question without prejudice, or the
bias caused by preconceived opinions. These prefatory re¬
marks are made, because while the public at large dispute the
fact of spiritual communion being possible at all, it is unwise,
in Spiritualistic publications, to further burden an unpopular
subject with unproved speculations more unpopular still.
There is one circumstance in favour of the following ideas,
namely, that man has a double consciousness, iv Clairvoyants
often see and describe distant scenes, yet in most cases have
no recollection of what they have seen and said, when they
wake up, and return to their normal condition. The follow¬
ing is the translation, with which we have been favoured ;—
“ The question. ias to the plurality of existences has long
occupied the attention of philosophers, and more than one has
seen, in the anterior condition Of the soul, the only solution
possible of the most important problems in psychology.
Without the admission of this principle, every step leads into
a labyrinth out of which there is no escaping without the aid
of the plurality hypothesis.*
“ The great objection which may be taken to this theory is
the absence of all recollection of any anterior existence. A
periodical rupture of all those affections which constitute the
greatest charm of the present life, and most cherished hope of
the future, would in fact be the negation of all moral respon¬
sibility. Such a doctrine would, it is urged, be inadmissible,
because incompatible with the justice and the goodness of
God, and would be entirely opposed to the conception of a
single existence with which is combined an eternity of suffer¬
ing ; but, be it remembered, for faults which may after all be
only of a temporary, or even local character. It is readily
understood that those who entertain these ideas are naturally
opposed to the doctrine of reincarnation. The teaching of the
higher disembodied spirits is, however, very different.
“ The spiritual existence of the soul, they tell us, is its
normal condition with indefinite retrospects of the past; cor¬
poreal existences are only the intervals or short stages in
spiritual life, and the sum of all those stages forms but a
fractional part of the normal existence, and may be compared
to a journey of many years during which the traveller sojourns
here and there for a few hours. If during the corporeal
existence, there is a solution of continuity from the absence
of memory, the connection is re-established in spirit life,
which admits of no interruption ; the solution of continuity
only occurs under the superficial condition of corporeal con¬
nection ; and this absence, or suspension of memory, must be
regarded as a providential provision in order that man shall
not be distracted in the fulfilment of those duties which the
present life imposes on him ; but in a state of bodily repose,
in sleep, the soul sometimes resumes its flight, and reunites
the links in the chain which in waking were severed.
“ Here another objection to the theory occurs, and it is
asked what advantage can be derived from previous existences
if no recollection is retained of the errors which had been
committed ? Spiritualism answers, however, that if the me¬
mory of painful existences were added to the miseries of the
present, those miseries would be rendered overwhelming, and
it is from this excess of suffering that God desires to spare us
were it not so, how great would be the humiliation, when we
called to mind what we had been, and when such recollection
could be of no avail.
“ During each existence some progress is made ; certain
valuable qualities are acquired, and certain imperfections are
eliminated ; each is, therefore, a new point of departure, and
what we become will depend upon the use we make of every
new opportunity afforded us without troubling ourselves about
what we have been. If in a pre-existence we had been, for
example, cannibals, of what importance would that be ? We
shall be estimated by what we are, not by what we are no
longer. If we laboured under defects, of which no trace re¬
mains, a debt is liquidated about which we need no longer
trouble ourselves. Suppose, however, that on the contrary, a
fault still remains only half-corrected, that fault will reappear,
to overcome which a farther effort will be required.
“ For example, a man has been a murderer and robber : he
is punished either in this life or in another; he repents, and
the tendency to murder is entirely overcome : but not so the
instinct to plunder. In the subsequent existence he will be
* “ If reincarnation be considered as a means of advancement for the
spirit, then death, an event the most dreaded, and one the most fraught
with sorrow on earth, will no longer be regarded as an evil: and when it is
understood that through death the means is afforded of renovation and of
progress, the event may come to be accepted as a wise and beneficent pro¬
vision. Snatched from the midst of a vicious atmosphere and disengaged
from a corrupt and imperfect envelope, Man is caUed to repentence, either
by the influences of the spirits by which he may be surrounded, or by a
reincarnation to which he may be appointed.”-—Michael Bonnamy. La
Raison du Spiritisme.
“ Without the pre-existence of the soul the doctrine of original sin would
not only be irreconcilable with the justice of God, which renders every man
responsible for his own actions, but, when we call to mind that the soul did
Hot exist at the period when it is pretended that its responsibility com¬
menced, the expression has really no meaning.
“ With pre-existence and reincarnation, man retains the germs of his
past imperfections not yet .corrected, and which being transmitted as
natural instincts have still to be purified. This is true original sin: it differs
from the received notion in this, that the sufferings each individual endures
are from faults of his own, not from those of another. There is also this
farther difference, at once consoling, encouraging, and entirely equitable,
that each existence offers the means of redemption through the opportunity
afforded of reparation, that progress will be insured either by putting
away some evil habit, by the acquisition of larger knowledge, or by those
acts of self-negation which will take away the necessity for further
corporeal existence, and secure for ever a purely spiritual life, blessed and
eternal”—La Oenese les Miracles et les Prediction selon le Spiritisme.—Bex
Allan Kardec.
August 15, 1870
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
simply a robber, possibly a noted robber, but not an assassin 1
In yet another stage, he will be guilty of only piMt robberies ;
still later he will rob no more, though he may have the ten¬
dency to rob, but which his conscience neutralises ; another
effort, and all trace of the moral malady has disappeared and
the man is a model of probity. What is the effect then upon
the individual ? Will not the remembrance of having perished
on the scaffold be the cause of constant suffering and humi¬
liation ?
“ Apply the same argument to all the vices and irregularities,
and you will understand how the soul becomes chastened in its
passage from one incarnation to another. Is not God more
just in having rendered man the arbiter of his own moral con¬
dition through his own efforts, than in permitting the soul to
be born with the body, and thereby to condemn it to per¬
petual torments, for transient errors, without affording the
means of emancipating itself from them ?
“ In. a plurality of existences the future is placed in man’s
own hands; if he require long to amend, with himself is
the responsibility ; this is mercy as well as justice, for the
sweet sentipient of hope is never destroyed. The following j
comparison may assist in enabling the enquirer to compre¬
hend the movements of the life of the soul:—
“ Suppose a long and beaten path which at unequal dis¬
tances passes through forests more or less dense, and which at
the entrance to each forest is reduced to a mere by-path, on
entering the first the route is lost in an almost inextricable
labyrinth ; the light of the sun is obscured by the thick
foliage; a dense fog darkens the air ; for a long while the
traveller, unable to consult his compass, strays about in a
distracted state, till at length, after endless perplexity and
labour, he meets with a kind woodcutter, who, by giving him
a due to the intricacies of the forest, enables him to recover
the path ; and though overcome by fatigue, his hands torn by
briers, and his feet wounded by thorns and stones, he succeeds
at length in reaching the confines of the forest, where the
route becomes once more soft and smooth. The sun shines
around him, and he pursues his journey with a renovated
hope which acts as a balm to his wounds.
“ By-and-by a second forest presents itself offering many
difficulties similar to those already encountered ; but already
experience has been obtained, and much of the suffering is
avoided. Ability to overcome the impediments presented in¬
creases with the experience gained, and the progress made.
Confidence begins to be restored, and the compass now affords
its proper help.
|| We may suppose the journey of this traveller to terminate
on the summit of a high mountain, from whence the whole
of the objects by which the route is marked from the com¬
mencement can be viewed. The different forests recall the
various vicissitudes experienced, during the struggles to pass
through them, but without producing any painful recollection,
because the end is attained. Like the old soldier, who in
the quiet of his domestic hearth recalls the events of many a
hard-fought field, forgets his sufferings in the joyous recollec¬
tions, of his triumphs,'so those forests, scattered along the way,
may be compared to black spots on a white ribbon.
“ ‘ Oh ! ’ exclaims the traveller, ‘ how long the time appeared,
how gigantic and interminable the difficulties which beset me
in that first forest. And when I call to mind that without that
kind woodcutter, who pointed out the right path, I might be
still there, my mind fills with gratitude. And then, when
from my present point of view my eye embraces the whole
perspective, how small the objects appear; it is as though a
few steps would suffice to clear those forests with all their dif-'
ficulties and perplexities, and yet as the retrospect presents
itself to me, every little detail of my journey recurs to my
mind, and every mistake which I made is vividly presented to
my memory.’
“ While thus absorbed in the past, an aged man approached,
and addressing our traveller, said, ‘ My son, behold, you have
happily completed your journey, but do not indulge in in¬
definite repose. You would soon experience a tedious mono¬
tony, which would perhaps make you regret those vicissitudes
and trials which had the effect of arousing your body and
mind to an unusual state of activity. You may behold a
number of travellers on the very route which you have
already traversed, and who, like you, run the risk of losing
their way; you have experience, you have nothing now
to fear, go, meet them, and endeavour, by your advice, to
direct them on their journey that they may more speedily
reach the end.’ ‘ I accept the commission with joy,’ said our
traveller, ‘ but, one question : why is there not a direct road
from the point of departure to this place ? The difficulties
and sufferings in passing through those abominable forests
would be spared.’ ‘ My son, look carefully, and you will
observe many who avoid the difficulties; they have ac¬
quired a certain amount of experience, and know how to
take a more direct and shorter route ; that experience being
the result of labour bestowed in overcoming the first great
difficulties, so that they are able by their own efforts to accom¬
plish their journey. How would it be with you, if you had
not passed through the ordeal ? The activity which you ex¬
hibited, the resources which were called forth in order to
clear your way, have increased your knowledge, and developed
your intelligence ; had it not been so, you would be as help¬
less as you were at the commencement. And then, in striving
to free yourself from difficulty, you have yourself contributed
to ameliorate the condition of others; what you have accom¬
plished is almost imperceptible ; but consider,the thousands
of travellers who have performed a similar journey, and who,
although apparently toiling for themselves only, really are
benefiting the interest of all ? Is it not, then, just that those
who labour receive the reward of their efforts in the repose
which they enjoy here? Those who do not labour cannot
claim the same consideration.’ ‘My father,’ replied the
traveller, .‘.in one of those forests I encountered a man who
warned me that on reaching the border I should find an im¬
mense abyss, which it was necessary that I should clear in
one bound ; but,’ he added, ‘ out of a thousand, who make the
attempt, scarcely one succeeds, the others fall into a burning
fiery furnace from whence there is no escape. This abyss I
have hot met with.’
“ ‘ My child, it is because it does not exist; if it did, it would
be an infamous and disgraceful snare for all those who seek
to come to me.' I know well that there are many difficulties
to be overcome; but I also know that sooner or later they
will be surmounted. If I had created an imppssibility save
for one, it would be a great cruelty inflicted on all others.
The abyss is an allegory of which you will see the explanation.
Lookagain along the, road and you will observeinthe interval
of the forests some amongst the travellers who move lightly
with a hopeful and joyous expression, on beholding their
friends again, whom they had lost in the entanglement of the
forest ; but close to them there are others, who, wounded and
disabled, drag themselves painfully along, imploring the com¬
passion of the passers by. Ultimately their wounds will be
healed ; but they have to learn a necessary lesson, which will
enable them to pass through the next forest with less suffer¬
ing. The abyss represents the evils they endure, and it is
true that of the thousands who enter on the journey scarcely
one is free from the sufferings which their own imprudence
brings upon them ; but it is not true that they fall into a gulf
from whence they cannot be extricated. Go, my son, point
hopefully to the goal, sustain the wounded, and show them
the road which will best conduct them to the end of their
journey.’
“ The road represents the spiritual life of the soul, in passing
along which the traveller experiences more or less happiness.
The forests are the corporeal existences through which the
individual struggles as well for his own advancement as for
the general good. The traveller who reaches the end of the
journey, and who returns to assist others that have been left
behind, is a guardian angel, a missionary who finds his happi¬
ness not only in the undisturbed contemplation of the glory of
God, but in the employment of those faculties with which he
has been endowed—he transmits to others the benefits he has
himself received.”
DE. NEWTON’S HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Since the issue of the last number of this journal, Dr.
Newton has paid Sunday visits to Andover, Maidstone, Bir¬
mingham, and Kingston-on-Thames. He will remain in
England till the middle of September, when he leaves for
Rome and Jerusalem, in both of which places he intends to
heal the sick poor, without charge, as usual.
We have received the following particulars about Dr. New¬
ton’s visit to Maidstone, where he was very successful, partly
in consequence of the excellent arrangements, the names and
addresses of the invalids being all taken, and the observers
being admitted by tickets, and placed where they could look
on but not interrupt
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Having been present at the reception of Dr. Newton
on his arrival in London, and having then subsequently wit¬
nessed several striking cures, and received benefit also myself,
I felt desirous to secure his powerful influence for several of
my own suffering friends, as well as for the afflicted of this
town and neighbourhood in general. I invited him .to spend
one of his Sundays at my house, to which he kindly assented,
fixing the 21th July. He arrived the previous evening, and
commenced his healing efforts before ten on Sunday, working
hard until nearly one o’clock, during which space of time he
treated fully 180 invalids, being an average of one to a
minute, besides finding time occasionally to address those
present in several short and stirring speeches.
I had prepared and covered a large yard and coachhouse,
capable of accommodating more than 500 persons, and I sup¬
pose 300 may have been present. Great harmony prevailed,
and all appeared deeply interested in the novel proceedings,
and, at the close, a hearty vote of thanks was accorded
to me.
Dr. Newton expressed himself highly satisfied, and stated
that he felt the conditions were more than usually fayour-
"able for the successful exercise of his great gift.
I find the Doctor’s remarks were received very differently,
according to the varying state of mind of his hearers, some
were sorely offended at his profession of personal purity, or
freedom from sin, and which he stated was needful for the
effectual and proper exercise of the gift of healing. Others
took umbrage at his denial of the exceptional Divinity of
Christ, and his attempt to account for his so-called miracles
in a way consistent with the laws of nature as exemplified in
the science of psychology. Still, I believe not a few felt a
true sympathy for the Doctor’s views, and the evident honesty
and enthusiastic earnestness which animated him in all he
said and did, could no fail to produce a good effect, and to in¬
sure respectful attention even from those who widely differed
from him.
I think it is best that the Doctor’s observations should
follow, and not precede or accompany the healing, for I fancied
I could perceive a decided diminution of power after he had
finished an address, probably arising from a feeling of op¬
position in some portion of the audience, or possibly from a
partial exhaustion through the effort of speaking.
As.to the cures effected on this occasion, I am not yet pre¬
pared to report fully, as I purposely allowed some time to elapse
before I began to make inquiry, except so far as to question
each patient immediately after leaving the Doctor’s hands.
I give you the following cases, however, which have just been
investigated, and may be fully relied upon, and I hope to be
ready for your next issue with a more complete statement.
Thomas Grant.
Shirley House, Maidstone, 10th August, 1870.
95. * Mark Antony Twort, photographer, age 41. Great
sufferer from indigestion for 6 years, causing a dull heavy
pain about the heart. Dr. Newton called it heart disease, and
promised to cure him, but for seven days after he saw the
Doctor he was much worse, when, as he states, something
seemed to drop or break away from the neighbourhood of the
heart, and since that time he has been better than for years
past. He thinks something has been forming internally for
some years, and now seems to be gone entirely. He appears
very grateful, and talks of writing a letter of thanks to Dr.
Newton.
96. Mrs. Martin, Wharf-lane, is grateful for benefit re¬
ceived. Rheumatic pains in hips disturbing her rest. Has
now lost all pain, except a slight pain in the knee; sleeps
well, and is wonderfully better.-
97. Samuel Twiner Smither, 80, Union-street, age 22, deaf
eight or nine years. Saw his mother, who states he can hear
much better, as a proof she mentioned that in the night he
was alarmed at a slight noise in his room made by a cat play¬
ing with a piece of newspaper.
98. John Dyer, Mill-lane, age 61. Great sufferer, and lame
from rheumatics. Very much better. Walks without a stick,
and can put his hand up to his head, which he has not been
able to do for a long time.
99. William Ayres, Hart-street, age 43. Leg was broken
about eight years ago, and until he saw Dr. Newton he had
not been able to bend it; he can do so now, and put his foot
to the ground.
100. Thos. Simmonds, builder; age 59. Has been seriously
disabled and pained four and a half years, by what his doctors
described as a loose piece of cartilage under the cap of the
knee, causing the joint to be frequently upset by anything
* In the June number of the Spiritualist, were 105 eases of cure by Dr.
Newton witb full names and addresses; in the July number 11 of these
eases were shown not to be reliable, reducing the number to 94. “We there¬
fore begin Mr. Grant’s list with number_ 95. Of course, in a country town
like Maidstone, where everybody knows everybody else, the reality of the
relief given must be indisputable.—Ed.
striking the inner side of the foot, notwithstanding that he
always wore a laced elastic bandage, which he dare not leave
off for an instant. He has consulted several doctors who have
tried to move the joint in various ways, and a serious o pera-
tion was proposed, but he was advised not to consent to it.
Dr. Newton pressed the sides of the knee cap, and' instantly
removed the impediment; he ordered the bandage to be re¬
moved, and the knee has remained perfectly sound ever since.
This important cure was both instantaneous and complete, and
the patient is most grateful.
101. Mrs. G , age 67, had suffered from stiffness, pain
and weakness of one knee, which for several years had been
gradually getting worse, and threatened to become quite a
stiff joint. Dr. Newton's touch caused a snapping sound, and
instantly restored freedom to the joint, which has continued,
and it is is daily gaining strength.
102. Thomas Capon, St. Peter’s-street, age 68, fell from a
ladder three years ago and injured his left leg, Which he could
only move by help of his hands. When Dr. Newton touched
him he'felt something give way under the knee, which he has
since been able to move without using any assistance, and he
is decidedly better and stronger.
103. W. R. Waters, 7, Charlton-street, New Brompton, Kent,
age 29. Injury to the spine eighteen months since. Writes
that he is very much better than he ever expected to be, and
can now attend to his business all day without being obliged
to go to bed, indeed, he says, “ I have every reason to believe
what the Doctor told me is true—‘ You are well 1 you are
cured ! ’ ”
Dr. Newton was not so successful in Andover as usual, but
Mr. P. Pearse, of that town, sends us the following cases:—■
104. Mrs. Chivers, Penton. Neuralgia of long standing.
Perfectly and permanently cured.—105. Mr. Benham, Wild-
hern. Pains in head. Cured.—106. Mqster Sull, Andover.
Stammering. Cured.—107. Master Pooley, Andover. Deafness.
Better.—108. Miss Brooks, Penton. Deafness. Cured.
With reference to cures effected by Dr. Newton, at Dr.
Burns’s chapel, some of the Cases were afterwards investi¬
gated by Miss E. A. Wathen, 32a, New Church-street, and
Mrs. E. Cowper, 388, Edgware-road; and the following are the
results :—109. Mrs. Hill, 17, Dudley-place, Paddington-green.
Bedridden for four years. Dr. Newton enabled her to walk at
once, and twelve days afterwards she could walk anywhere
with greater ease still.—‘110. Harriet Redding, 16, North
Wharf-road, Paddington. Rheumatics, and could not bend
her knees, can now kneel.—111. Mr. Templar, 16, North
Wharf-road, Paddington. Suffering much pain from dis¬
jointed hip, pain removed.—112. Jeffery Davis, 2, North-
place, Hatton-street. Hip out of- joint, quite cured.—113.
Miss Monk, 7, North-street, Grove-road. Dropsy, and lump
in the throat. Cured.—114. Mrs. Bird, Carlyle-mews. Ill
in bed, with rheumatic fever. Was not seen by Dr. Newton,
but he prescribed for her, and she was cured.—115. Mrs.
Coe, 16, Princess-street, Grove-road, thrown from chaise, some
months ago, and in pain ever since. Cured.—116. Mrs. Rickets,
10, Avenue-market. Had not been out of doors for six months.
Cured at a distance, without having been seen by Dr. Newton.
—117. Mrs. Waland, 1, Charles-street, Devonshire-street.
Arm broken some months ago, and in pain since. Cured.—
118. William Sayer, 13, Devonshire-place. Pains in hip
cured, but paralysis of hands not cured.—119. William King,
17, Devonshire-street. Gout, and rheumatics, could not sit
down ; now can sit down close to his heels, and the cure is
apparent to all who know him.
The next meeting of the British Association for the Ad¬
vancement of Science begins on Wednesday, September 14th,
at Liverpool, and lasts for ajveek. The president for this year
is Professor Huxley.
Professor W. R. Grove on Spirits.—In a lecture on
Spiritualism recently delivered at the Cavendish Rooms, by
Mr. William White, author of Swedenborg, Ms Life and
Writings, the speaker quoted the following sentence from
Groves’ "'Correlation of the Physical Forces;"—“Myriads
of organised beings may exist imperceptible to our vision,
even if we were among them, and we might be equally
imperceptible to them.” The fact of the quotation having
been thus used, was brought under the notice of Mr. W. R.
Grove, Q.C., by a Mr. Hind, to whom Mr. Grove then sent
the following note :—“ Dear Sir,—The above quotation
from me is, I believe, correct, but has nothing to do with
Spiritualism or any such matters, on which I will not trust
myself to write. It was merely a speculation on the' possible
differences of ‘ physical ’ existences, and that some might exist
with senses so different to others, that each may be impercepti¬
ble to the other, just as we may be ignorant of the sense con¬
veyed by the antennee of an insect, or an insect our sense of
smell.—Yours obediently, W. R. Grove.’’
The “Daily Tele&raph” on Spiritualism.—It so-
happens that at the soiree at the house of Mr. John Pender,
when the Prince of Wales attended to witness the opening of
direct communication with India, not a few Spiritualists were
present, and among them were Mrs. Honey wood, Mr. C. F.
Yarley, and Lord Lindsay. The Daily Telegraph, in reporting
the proceedings, said—“It can scarcely be matter of marvel if
the finer, more delicate, and more sensitive minds that have
busied themselves with the subtlest of natural agencies—an
essence far more akin, as it would seem, to spirit than the most
imponderable and inappreciable of gases, or even than light
itself—should have imbibed from their loving studies those
supernatural ideas which are generally classed under the name-
of ‘ Spiritualism.’ Believers will no doubt be pleased to learn
that more than one distinguished electrician present last even¬
ing maybe counted among the openly-avowed disciples of the
faith which has such remarkable manifestations.” During
the evening telegraphic messages were sent to the governor of
Bombay; to Lord Mayo, Simla,the Viceroy of India; the King
of Portugal; to the Khedive, Palais de Rasel-tin, Alexandria;
to the governors of Gibraltar,'Malta, and Aden; and to others.
Replies were received in a few minutes. Communication was
also established with America, and messages were sent to
the President of the United States, and Mr. Cyrus W. Field.
Much electro-magnetic apparatus, belonging to Lord Lindsay,,
was used at the soiree to show novel experiments in diamagnet¬
ism; some of these experiments were new to science, and had
been devised by Mr. Yarley to show the power over ponderable
matter, possessed by certain invisible imponderable forces..
Much electrical apparatus of scientific interest, invented by
Sir William Thomson, Mr. Yarley, Mr. Fleeming Jenkin, and
other electricians, was exhibited at work.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We expect to publish, in our next number, alT the outstanding
communications, which have been unavoidably kept over for-
some time.
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen p,t spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUAIISM' DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to'possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr', and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mrl Home. The' following
was the affidavit of Mr C.; F. Yarley, C.E.,
F.R.G.S., M.R.I.
“I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical,
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this Suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with'others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. .Ihave
been, since then, for seven months-in America, ’where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and-jvhere '
it is cultivated by some of the ablest njen,-and .having ,
experimented with and-compared the forces With-elec-.
tricity and magnetism,' and after having' applfedAme^
chanical and mental tests, T entertain no doubt wh&fiSve#
that the manifestations ..which I have myself examihod.
were not due to the operation of .any of .the -recojnisett
physical laws of nature, and' that there has', been'preteht'
on the occasions aboWmentibned some-inteHigShfee'
other than that of the .medium And observers.-.,
“ The subject of course offers, many opportunitiestahd
inducements for fraud,-.and I only rq.i' iky.f what. I have,
myself seen and tested.' Since my :i(Haiiit:inee"w'iiii
Mr. Home began I.have pursued the'enquiry, and'I >haye:
found engaged jin .it able, learned, and scientificgheh,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical, mahifest'a^
tdons are buf the introduction to an extensive field!- W
mental and physical knowledge' .which, will in a. great,
measure explain-andrrecpncile, the'beH’ef§jQ|;all;'a’gcs and.
nations. I know. of .several ins^nc&^hoth m Europe,
and America in which' this course of study has* .awaki
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths afi'd''
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting/
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like .several other non-prqfessidnal..me¬
diums whose cases ,;:I have studied,,was, passive during- '
the occurrence of the 'fnanifeStatfons!' He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to extemdl in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited tqreCeive impres-,
sio'ns than to prosecute enquiries.:. I willingly testify.my.
entire conviction of -his truthfulness and honesty.' ■
| ■ 0. F.vYabKby.’-
It also came but in the fetidence‘given* at "tKe
trial, that Mr. Home had beenHhe ihvited ’and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and-the Empress o'f the
French, the Emperor, Empress,-and '-thevlate Em-<
press Dowager of Russia; the Qrand Djike,.Gonr
..stantine, the King of Prussia, bh'd: late' 'King, of-
Bavaria,, the 'late King .of,; Wurt.empurgj.-iarldtthb'
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home svays that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for .his..
seances. In March; 1869, SpiritiM Mqgqzme
gave the names : of. the following’; gentlemen As
those who have long been investigatffig’the sub-1
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred R. W&llace,-Esq.', K'St. Mark’s-efeSfcent,
N.W.; Professor He Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road; N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J.- Mb GuBy,"
The Priory, Great Malvern : Dr. J. J. :G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John's-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixbn* 8,’GfSat’Qfct'
mond-street, W.C.: S. C.’ Hall, Esq.', 15^'Ashley-place,',
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton CroSland, Egg,; Wtfiiafh
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St; Andrew’s, Edinnurgh*;' H:
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwo'od; iJ..G.i
Crawford, Esq., 52, GlouceSter-crescent, •N.Wg’W. M.>
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the hook, sayd:—~
. “ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868; ’
spoke very highly of the. scientific attainments of;
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,";
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at ohee,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent Americah Spiritualist, who hgs,als#.
written interesting books on the sublet. Recently,'
in England, Viscount Adare has \mtten a'bpbk'
bearing testimony to the truth’of Spiritualism,’and:
it has a preface' by t Lord Dunraven. . This bdoK is'
printed for private circulation only,-which is'an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by-John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and mpyement^-of
wooden materials by invisible agency-dpcurrdd in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what"
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s-jLi/e of Wesley'.'
Mr.'W.. Crookes,'-F.R.S., editdr" '6f. the Ghemical
News, is now ihvestigatipg Spiritua'ilisfn/'lind’'he'
has published anArticle In the QW&rteNy Jpu)rial, of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture; though he does not Know;
as yet whether they are produced, by disembodied
spirits; The fbUbwing. -letter,: which. he wrete to.
Mr. Yarley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870 :—
“ 20; Momington-road, London, N.W.
■ \ I July 13,th, 1870. * *
-- “Dea-r Mr. VARliEY,—I was very pleased to receive
your, letter pf the 9th inst, ib. which, you ...discuss spins
points alluded" to' in imy paper’on “ Spirituaiism'viewed
by the Light, of Modern Science."*
“You have, been working at (the subject for more*
years than I have months, and, knowing, as, you do, the,
enormous difficulties .in the way of Accurate inyestig'ation
—difficulties for the most psorhinterpoSed-by Spiritualists’
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that; Kphiy
feel the ground firm under me for a very shortrilistance
along the road which you have travelled so far,'**'
' “ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments; the more so, 4s I have been working in A’similar
direction myself,but as yet .with scarcely a tangible.,
result,
1 “ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me h>—whether it. pbints to a
mere physical force,; or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert tothespipitual hypothesis'i-but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity hi my,
scientific education.
/“.ihave already,had.many:le.tters,poth from' Spiri¬
tualists and from leading.men
they a>r§ gla’fi I-.have '.taken up'the subjecvAhirurgmg.
me 40 oontinpe the’ investigation. * In tact, I HaVe'Yefen*
agi’eeahly surprise-d tojfind encouragement from' so many
. Scientific men,",' as. well- as. ..sympathy, from. -\the., go;od-
friends :I possess .ainongst 'the Spiritualists.//.Believe
me, my. dear, sir, very''truly yours, f ‘ •'
• WniLiAM’Brookes. ’
‘/'Signor G.; Damiano^,a Sicilian, lijjing,-
at’Clifton; lias writteni -1 i| I ll /if!-pfint,.
in which he severely.. cenSur.e’s/Pr.o.fefe^or Tyndall,
'MrriG/TL’ LeWes, jahd others like them, for refus¬
ing, to .-investigate ithc.su'lDjeet.'' He further offers fa*
rewar.d;ofrl/)QO igjiinea'S^to .aaiy .respectable; scien-
tific/or - educated 'men, who' will investigate the
■subject (and ;ppoye.‘it'tbibe' an impbsturd. The'
f olloiving aare Ii^ words• *
/Wtl-now/dHervyoh two .challenges.,//
' !? First/T',chaBehge*yori‘ dr either’Of you/br -ahy of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London hanker whom you or
■ they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas ; and
I pledge myself to’‘immediately, deposit in the'same bank
A'3ik’e! amount,—the ownership ’of such sum of ;ohe;'thou¬
sand .gpineas dfo depend upon my proying;by evidence,
'Sufficient jto1 establish ‘any facf in* history or in a “criminal
or eivil';c'6urt of-justiCe.; ;
",Firstr“Tha.t. [nib Communications’and Answers'
it6’nuestipns.; pnt,mrbceeij,41’0in inertynAtter in
; a manner mex'plibable by any generally fecoghised'law
.‘of. nlitiire.' |
Secondly—That; deadfahd 'inert'matter’does' move
■■.irithout .thCj aid ss® apy meCJjaniCal, or. knownichemical
%g&L<^,“Ana£n defiahee of all'the'admitted laws of gravi¬
tation..'' f ^ A. ^.;-
f**i‘ Thirdly—That. voiCes 'appeftamihg"'to Cno'.’dhe 'iii'the
flesh are .heardlto spekk and helii. rational.cbnverse'with,
,meh/!'',;
'v/ “ A’jury of-tweiity-four'’gent^emeh, twelve to he, ebbsen.
•hy.each'-party^upfi juryitb consist exclusively"of hiem-
bers.oLithe Ieamed';prbfpSsibns'.RhdHitdraryfmfen)S .to*
decide whether or hot the facts contamed'in.theAbove-
IpfqppSitibns aire fcc|nc(lpsjvejv proyed «<es<rS^i.e;/by,
Witnesses ,vpf lestablislied 'character. ‘‘■r A majority of
tHe'tjyeHty|fqui;>to, deCidCri If the vCrdi^'^bS’*''that ithe^e.
fact's, have biot beeh/estAblished;■ ihe. .thousand ..guineas-'
arq 1 to ^llpS'g Vto’1 the,; part^<-aeCeptmg4his Challenge; ££f
the veMiot,be:that fheSe jfactshrC established, the thou-
s'ahd-guhiehs-Jc.bc mih;e/‘ - ’ i’ w
| Secqndlyjplmhjeditftely q^terfhe abov.e .wager being,
deoide’d,/either way;'-!’OffCriajiikeAhaBienge of fiyefhun/;
"dred guineafs (tomejmet oh tHe other side ih.like manner
as 'abBve)f—Ihe -'ownership •Pf/jjtlfe'secCbd. shin of if onej
.thousand ^guineas, to1 depend/uponfthei.eatahlishment'.ofv
ftKe’facts contAmediia-the,ih’oposifi6ns:.already: given,
SxperirientPconducted'in theadualpreseifce of the twenty-
fouh- gentleihen .who'.:have.’de’Cided4he‘.previous .Wager';'
the verdict, of the maj oiaty to. decide in ,tjhis case likewise.
,t“ Iifleitlfe^i&se, -the sejmees stre to .he conducted in any
i nublie, or1 pjiyate; building which the jury may select,
And’ o#Kich ihsay be available for the purpose.'
^.riiThc,result pf,theseichallenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to' he advertised by 1 the vietorious party, at the
' expense of the defeated party, in aU the London daily
papers.
“I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the chaBenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant; G. Damani.
“Gliftoh, Oct. 1,18G8.
“P.S.—Letters addressed 1 Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England And South Wales District
Bank, Com-street, Bristol,’ wfll always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists'in the United, Stated’at rather less than
three million's; and this is About the.lowest estimate
I '.that anybody has irpadeJ There are no accurate sta-
. tisticsr a'hd.digcrent authorities vary in-their esti¬
mates "ffotn three,to’ 'eleven million's.
' When reports of the speeches of, spirits are printed in this
■ Journal, noh-Spirititalitts^ should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or 'foolish, triithful or untruthful^
justfhetSqpie^as spirits injtfip, bopy. Moreoyep, they are.biiti
individyals, so do tuk know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but' the assertions of an individual;., but,by com¬
paring the' statemerits 'of 'manffpifiis, it may in time- .be
possible\to. discover in what points fjiey. agree, p/nd to sift
out the unrelidple communications. , Many spirits cannot
see each other, any niore ihari we edn see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life', it dots not", follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
. , , HOW . TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experim'eiital trial at home, among family
'friendl find'relatives, often-gives the most satis-
fac’tory'ovidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena; g;;Afethe.gSame time, as - no fully developed
mpdmm'i5is *present-among those who haye never
ohfaine.d. juanifestetions before, the probability is.
that there w'ill he ,no .results!. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
,to be .dhtainhd 'id this' way at;fhe first sitting of a
family circle'; ^perhaps for every one. successful
nqw circle thus started1 without a, medium, there
are-six or seven failures,'but no'accurate statistics
bn this/point'have^yettbeen collected. / When
^odee *ma,nifestatlons<have';been obtained; they .will
.gradualiy, increase in; power and reliabilitylattSuc-
Wssiye-Mt.tings. ..-.The following is a.good/plan of
Actionj- f. .A? - -
Bfl; Lb,t thetr,pom.he.of a qomfortable temperature, but
epolraihejrthap’wartn—let* arrangements be made that
ihobojfy shall phter it, Add that there shall be up inter-
rup’tihh'.-fpd bhe 'hou'r during-the sitting of ■ the/cirole.
.■Wefi.dadip, :and-fbggy.w;.eather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.; -...
v-,,.2.t £fet..the.sjrcle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same dumber of "each sex. Sitroundadun.-
'covered wooden'table,.-with all the palms of ;the. hands
ih Jcohta'c{'V^ith/ifi/trdp'suriAce'. Whethef the hands
;tp!uelf. eaph Sther/or; not'is usuafly of.no importadee.
Any.table*will*do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. , The removal of a hand from
the" table'for a-few seconds .does no harm, hut when ob'e
of the'Sityprs breaks ..the circle by leaving the table it.
.sometimes,'but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plao some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may he
, obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-develope'd
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, hut an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the mernbers of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
*' 7/When motibns of the table or sounds are produced"
-freely to Avoid; cdnfusicttv let one person only speak;
and .talk to-the table as, to an intelligent being.
Let him tefl the table that 'three tilts or raps mean
’“Wes/’/pne “means'“ No,”- and two mean “ Doubtful,”
and ask- whether .the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be, given in answer, then say, “If T speak
the .lettbrs' qf the'alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come, t'6'the'letter' you. want, aud spell us out a
'message'?” Should three' Signals be given, set to work
on. the-plan proposed,-and from this time an inteBigent
system ofeommunioati'p.n is Established.
“S. Afterwards' the question should he ppt, “Are we
sitting in the. feightt order’to; gel? the best manifestations f ”
Probably some members of- the circle will then he fold
to change seats with each other, and the signals wiB he
Aftq?w&r(te .strengthened-- Next ask, “Who is the
medium ?,”r' Wheh'spiritsvC6rne asserting themselves to
'be -re3ated; or. known-to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to . test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits oiit of the body have all the virtues
anaall the failings’of spirits :ih' the body. :
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of ihediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing th’e'mjjhy.kinds? of mediumship will be found
; in Mrs. Prdid’ssbr ■§ Morgan's' book, From Matter
' to *'8pw$t, JpttMisbed! .by - Lon&fnans 5 and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
’’circle,-..
r r Thefeeare^in,.. England several very interesting
..cirples -for,, physical manifestations, where the
.Spirits jispeak .with/andible voices, but,. unfortu¬
nately, total 'darkness1 'is a necessary condition.:
NhA-sLilfituKiiStS'whof are ihqhiring into the sub-
, .je&, should;, have nothing'to do with dark seances,
which’shfiuld11 te; held Only by those who know
1 .‘eSchtotterJ eiiice’? they offer : so many facilities for
fifeiidl ,'5Yhqn*any..cjrcl,e,regularly obtains power-'
'ful physical-manifestations, theymay desire to sit*
(for th®/,voices, - Thie, yery . slightest1 glimmer of
light mustj,be excluded from the room, while the'
,meinbfers.;df rtlie/circle*sit round the table in the
, .ordinary iway.,'/One or two'paper tubes,. each
: Twelve^or'.eighteeii'inches long, with an orifice-
Tandiit-An^'inffii-ihd.'-a-half'in-diameter, should be
jpladedion* the;table. They may be readily made
by,rdllirfg'lhp a piece' 01 .music and tying a-few
s .'piShfes Of C'ottOn round the rough tube thus formed.
'• Trf the .‘early .stages of a voice-circle these tubes ,
i are necessary for the use of the spirits; but after-'
wjards .they may be dispensed .with"except when
the' weather and other conditions: are nnfavonr-
; able.’ When first-trying to’obtain the voices the"
spirits may not be able to Tiff the tubes from the'
- fable, afterwards they often get them up in'the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When,
they get full control over them they , can carry,
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk* to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from CamberweH to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of aU Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied witb the Spiritual .and1
Progressive Publications of the World; a.'Drawing:
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;'
Private Rooms for Stances, Oommittees, Meetings, Ac./
and where all information respecting the,Oause<and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to! all the pririleges of the,.
Establishment, inoluding the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A weB-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals,, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works,, Cheap.
Books and Tracts, Planohettes, Materials for; Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works andAppliiamcete oh’
| Phrenology, Physiology, Health, And (Dietetic Reform, ■
Temperance, Hydropathy, " Gymnastics, iMeSpecjsm,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &o., wilrbe kept.on sale,/
As the responsibilities incurred in-estabushiiigltliis
“Home for Spiritualism” and;the Science:of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly | solicits The .kind
eo-operation and. support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should > at once
caB at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-rcw,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.O,
August 15,, 18.7.0.
HUMAN NATURE, a ^Monthly Recoril
of Zoistie Sciehce. ’LQteliifehee/an&^PopuiM .*
Anthropology. Recent numbers? giye‘'fiiB 'det^iRiiOf f|8 -
extraordinary Manifestations- tbrou^h^th®/ Celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home^Esq., with, phiipso,phi£al resjsqfijj (
ings as to the natiire 'ancrcause oPine ’phenomena; a ’
new series of lessons‘on•.Phfeh61ohy!aiidJ-tfie Tempera!''
ments is being given,/e6htaifiin^)some nevKiihstructidnh J
of great value .to; theiy"Studqhtj''ill:^t'0*a^SfI>01'S*lits ,<* j
eminent men and, wohieh,. with Biographies .ah^ Phrenc-.
logical delineations ■ are’' frequently, imradticed; a serial *
Tale of great power and beauty; articles, on Physiology, £
Diet, Temperance, arid;;H,ealth;.translations; from Con¬
tinental Works and Periqhicals ; treatisps on Mesmerism,/
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism'; reviews of-'B6oks; reports
of Lectures, • Meetings',' and- Societies-/ ieifd6rs: this tbe .
cheapest, most: varied; and.ihstruciive;/Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact,.that this Periodical is en- ,
tirely unbiased and "deiroted to the* truth1 respecting all
tbe topics on which if tr3ats,'is'A/pomPncfi'td.be over¬
looked by. all earnest'investigators, whatever/their
opinions ,may be- .-Rost, free,'7s. per annum,vor(6d. per .
-month from the .Bookseller's,'!James .Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampto'n-roW, Bloomsbury-square,
JETolborh/London;- W.O. # ..
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
.MAGAZINES: for fSALE, -besides several Odd
Volumes, . , *;;
HEYWOOp AND CO;, 335^ STRAND, W.C.
Where also may be gbtAmed/Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, .and, the Spiritualist on day of
PubHcation, Wholesale and Retail.
On the first of'every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the . advocacy * of' reverent free
thought in matters pertaining’to/Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawion, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, Jambs Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons;
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de NoaUles.
, President:
The Right Honourable-the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Tj-'easurer:
Henry Charles Stephens,' Esq:, 171 Aldersgate-street, E.O;
< • fjfonoraty Secretary:
James Efhpunds,-Esq., M.D.
‘ Lady'Secretary.:
Mrs! Blangy: • ’
Bankerbi;-f,:
The London and County Bank/441; Oxford-street.
The Female’ Medical' S ocitety is established for the
foBowing objects f—- '
11;—To promote the employment of properly edneated
women hr the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2.—To provide educated .women with proper facilities
for learning fK&' tlieoJy; and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of inteflectual
culture and social usefulness to lapies who may not he
depending upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has'drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners, still attend the hulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
pf a midwife. , Proper, meaiqs of. study have never been
provided Lor ■ women, and thei-e has never been any
public examindtioh/by,which women when wellqualifled
might l)e distinguished from those who are illiterate and
■unqualified/
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, .which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery . and the accessory branches of modi-
.c'iiie.-Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
tor its advantages,-'and'many of these ladies are settled
in practice,’ and su'eofeeding admirably.
■ A'life!suhscription of ten guineas, or an annuAl sub¬
scription, of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions wiU be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited'to'visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
.be.interested, ,
, The'addresses of skiBed Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
:th’e Society,'may be obtained of the Lady Secretary,
i Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
-foron of The Spiritualist is from be-
_I1y ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that.the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
'.lj>bpiety!hy;twenty.witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands’Of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should he ordered while they are still obtainable by
those/who. wish to preserve them for binding. A few
.copies of No. 1 should he kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
| the possession of ‘ the early friends of the movement^
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O.
(ttontentss.
A Spiritualistic Funeral  .... , ... 89
Spirit-rapping in John; Wesley’s Family. Part VL 89
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations. Part II. ... 89
Reports of Meetings The Services at the
‘ Cavendish Rooms—A Sermon by a Spirit ... 91
Mrs. Tyndall on Spiritualism ...  92
Mr. W. Crookes on Spiritualism    9?
Leader :—Spiritualism and Scientific Societies ... 93.
Poetry.:—Mlitary Glory    ... 9t-
Correspondence :—Spiritualism and Men of Science ' ‘ g
—The Religious Opinions of Spirits... . ... . 94T
M. Allan Kardeo’s Speculations   ... /S>4.,
Dr. Newton’s Healing Mediumship ... ... ... 9S
PARAGRAPHS:—Stances at the Spiritual Library,.92j
Is it True? 92; Sunday Evenings at the-^ve^diah
I Room, 92; Siances with Mr. Heme, '92,;' Incon¬
sistency, 94; Professor W. B. Groye^on Spirits,
95; The Daily Telegraph on Spiritualism, '95/
Answers to Correspondents ...    95
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, FuBwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andre w-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
