J
AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 120.—(Yol. Y.—No. 24.) LONDON: DECEMBER llj 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(Htontents.
Hypotheses of Existence       277
Public Spirit Circles ...   ... ...273
Mr. Spurgeon on Spirits  I      ... ... ... 279
Spiritualism in Hull    ..;  280
An Illustrated Spiritual Periodical. By William H. Harrison  ,281
The National Association Soiree:—Dr. Gully on how Spiritualists should
meet—Mr. MartinR. Smith on the Work of the National Association
—Mr. Harper on Organisation—Mr. Rogers on Popular Mistakes—
A Trance Address on Organisation ... ...    ;.. ... 282
Poetry:—Spirit Teaching ...•      285
Correspondence:—Wonderful Test of Spirit Power—Information
wanted from America—Differences—Offices for the National Associ¬
ation—Suicide Apparently Caused by a Vision—Mrs. Friehold’s
MediUmship—The Late Sunday Evening Services at Marylebone—
Private Seances in Manchester—Mr. and Mrs. Everitt in Hull 285
Answers to Correspondents      288
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Jackson’s Lecture, 280; Superstitions of the
Korogars, 284; Darlington Spiritual Association, 287; Mr. Everitt
in the Provinces, 288; Seal-skin Jackets, 288 ; A Trance Lecture ... 28
RAILWAY ACCIDENT' MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 # 26 Viet, cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research ; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested lo communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of' whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOIN INS AFTER THIS DATE.
MRS. J. W. JACKSON
WILL deliver a SERIES OFi THREE LECTURES, at
the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, W., on Wednesday the 9th December, Wednesday 16th
December, and Wednesday 23rd December, on the respective subjects of
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
If preferred. . .
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. 0. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es i R r. Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffln).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
WIT AND HUMOUR, SYMPATHY, AND THE INSPIRA¬
TION OF MEN OP GENIUS. .
Tickets of Admission to the course, £1 Is. 0d., to be obtained at 21
Green-street, previous to the commencement of the lectures.
Each Lecture to commence at Three o’clock. '
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in J one next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors-open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
CLASS.
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total Partial
Dis able- Disable¬
ment. ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
1 A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
&
1000
500
250
100
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 180
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s, d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0.18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.” Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
•B.”
Weekly Allow¬
ance only, j
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
1 2.6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
The east London spiritualists quarterly
TEA MEETING, will take place, on Sunday, the .22th inst., at Mr.
Cogman’s, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End. Tea at five o’clock. Tickets one
shilling each.
Committee.
AlexanderCalder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, ,S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
Therb will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray's-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
"OIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
JLJ’ Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRAN CIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 11, 1874.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beaeees for 1874.
President.—James "Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
/Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. GK Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gray, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discoyery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
TT|ALSTOH ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
JLJ SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary at the Rooms as above.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, lion. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
in each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
. to William Howitt’s Letter on the Beitish National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Jot (“'Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
A NIMAL MAGNETISM AND MAGNETIC LUCID
~cj»_ SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF- MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Greep, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Camp den-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &e. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
PIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Taree Months, 75 cents.
C.; & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
The day of pentecost and its phenomena.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Avb Maria-lane.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig*
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. B
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—tfee Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
oh Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
j|. Information about the society [may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 'll, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial 'paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the ipath of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
“ PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.” ~
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts Of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 I2s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. AH orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
O SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
jl ]|8ti}rJi of i|o praams of i|i attit of jljttijHttafioro.
VOJoUJVIE FIVE. JHUJVIBEF^ TWENTY-FOUF(.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. • Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be long'er sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to. be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria' Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on'receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C^
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” an
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
. AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queeusberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
■Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’S-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
IJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1.—To promote the employment of property educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
. 2.—To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
HYPOTHESES OF EXISTENCE.
In tlie pure atmosphere of free thought which cha¬
racterises Spiritualism, many busy minds of necessity
frame out for themselves new ideas as to the origin and
nature of the universe, and in some instances have built
such apparently sound edifices out of their speculations
that when they iirge their theories with all the sincerity
of assured conviction j the sympathising listener regrets
that the ideas of one body of thinkers are opposed to
those of an opposite and equally earnest body of
thinkers, consequently that the opposing speculations
cannot all be true.
Several opposed hypotheses of existence have recently
been mooted in these pages. Mr. Oxley,' froin a
Swedenborgian standpoint, argues that an influx from
the Almighty passes down through spiritual beings to
man, through men to animals, and through these again
to the mineral kingdom, all being the result of the
thought and will of God. Apart from the present
absence of direct evidence of real connection between
the thoughts of men and the forms of animals, or of
such connection being more than assumption, there is
another question of a practical nature. If spirits are
disembodied men, and if men live only by influx from
spirits, how did the first men exist when there were no
spirits ? Must a miracle he called in to do away with
the difficulty ?
Directly opposed to the Swedenhorgian view is that
of the Materialists, who invoke no aid from miracle or
assumption, hut argue only from that which is decisively
known. They look upon man as a development of
matter, and not to matter as something dependent upon
man. The chemical substances composing the once
molten earth, are found to have afterwards been formed
into vegetables and animals of the lower kind, until
in later stages of development man with his intellect
appeared upon the scene; and still, without doubt, he
is developing and advancing, as he has done from the
days when he walked the earth as a savage, and before
that, peradventure, as an anthropoid ape. Thus in its
naked simplicity, as Professor Tyndall has put it, the
problem of the Materialist is—Are the intellects of such
men as Milton and Shakespeare, potential and unde¬
veloped in the molten minerals now glowing in the fires
of the sun? When those minerals cool, will develop¬
ment after development, in the course of long ages, pro¬
duce the intellect of man ?
Another problem has been lately mooted in these
pages by the Countess of Caithness, who advocates
the doctrines of Allan Kardec, to the effect that spirit
and matter are developed side by side, and that by a
series of reincarnations in different mortal bodies man
gains experience until he quits the plane of material
things, and passes away to higher stages of existence.
This tends to explain the justice of God. The sufferings
of one set of human beings as compared with the com¬
forts of another class, the ignorance of the majority as
compared with the intelligence of the minority, are not
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
■wrongs inflicted on the less fortunate, for all have had
to pass through the same stages, in gaining that sum of
love and knowledge which constitutes the perfected
spirit. Moreover, a truly utilitarian principle is in¬
volved, for the idea is that man does not quit this or
some other earth, until he has exhausted all the
possibilities of the earth, so that, as in all other depart¬
ments of nature, nothing is wasted which has been
formed for the education of the spirit. The reincarna-
tionist views are advocated with much ability, and
with a pleasing absence of dogmatism.
Bishop Berkeley does away with the material world
altogether, and argues that all we khow arises from
certain sensations acting upon our consciousness in a
given order, so that all nature perhaps has a spiritual
hut no material basis. On this theory alone, so far as
we know, can the facts of clairvoyance be explained.
A temporary change takes place in the spiritual condi¬
tion of the individual, and at once the immediate
material surroundings are gone to consciousness ; the
room in London in. which the sensitive is sitting has
disappeared, and the seer describes scenes and persons
in Edinburgh or elsewhere, or, strange to say, describes
events of the past or future as if present. What strange
power is this ? A mesmeric lecturer, by the exercise
of his will, makes his sensitive see flocks of sheep which
have no real existence, yet the sheep are real to the
medium for the time being. How, then, do we know
that some greater Power may not be intelligently using
the same laws which the mesmerist employs partially
and ignorantly, so that by the former men are sur¬
rounded by ordinary conditions which they suppose to
be material and invariable, but which, after all, are
really at root of a spiritual nature ?
Erom our present point of view the latter specula¬
tion appears to open a more promising field of inquiry
for the solution of problems relating to the nature of
existence than do the others. At all events, Berkeley’s
ideas and those of the materialists have more facts and
fewer assumptions to support them ; but So long as any
theory contains a single assumption as one of the links
in its chain of evidence, it is weak, and outside the
pale of true science, which takes nothing for granted,
and admits only facts of nature which every man can
prove for himself without doubt.
PUBLIC SPIRIT CIRCLES.
The question has lately been raised, both jin public
and private, as to the desirability of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists establishing public spirit circles,
and this is just one of those problems in which the
minority who have had deep experience as to the nature
of mediumship, will be opposed in opinion to the ma¬
jority who have ,had but casual experience, and, like
Galileo, who formed a minority of one, with all the rest
of the world against him, when he asserted that the
earth rolled round the sun, the experienced few are
likely to be found to be in the right.
Good mediums are mesmeric sensitives, acted upon
by all kinds of mental and moral surroundings, other¬
wise they would not be pliant in the hands of the
spirits; they are also usually of warm and impulsive
dispositions. If, therefore, under influence, a medium
should do anything wrong while exposed to surround¬
ings from which he should be protected rather than
encouraged to face—namely, an antagonistic public
Dec. 11, 1874.
circle of prejudiced people, so little interested in the
subject that they will attend seances they can get
gratuitously from the Association, but will not pay the
regular fee of any professional medium—if, we say, under
these conditions the medium should do anything wrong,
the name of the Association which recognises him will
be coupled with the deed. Moreover, what good would it
do to Spiritualism to bring in, somewhat forcibly,
inquirers of the kind just mentioned? Again, with
very sensitive mediums there is, beyond mistake, a
reflex action between the sitters and the manifestations.
When suspicious and low-class sitters are present, or
when there is a want of harmony in the circle, the
manifestations are often suspicious in a corresponding
degree; in fact, we never shall haVe the highest mani¬
festations until our circles meet in love and truth,
with deeply religious aspirations for communion with
the highest beings of the next world. The best
revelations will not be obtained in circles formed for
an evening’s friendly amusement, in which the leading
desire is to see something wonderful, and to get good
physical tests. •
Some professional mediums, like the Davenports,
can get good test manifestations in the face of the most
adverse conditions, and at all times. In such cases the
reflex action is not so manifest, but, on the other hand,
the development of the phenomena is almost entirely
stopped, and they get exactly the same manifestations1
year after year; by long experience the spirits produce
them with precision; they are advanced enough for the
audiences met day after day, and there is no reason
why the spirits should try to go through the process of
perfecting higher results, in the face of the worst con¬
ditions. If the spirits tried to produce recognisable
spirit faces through the mediumship of Mr. Williams,
what trouble and anxiety it would enforce upon him
during the earlier and more imperfect stages of the
manifestation. Indeed, there is evidence that the
medium has to pass through a period of danger from
the lower spirits, while gaining this manifestation, so
should then be surrounded by the best conditions which
Spiritualists can furnish.
. If the Association recognised or sustained any pro¬
fessional medium, many of the others would grow
exceedingly jealous, and give rise to a great deal of
trouble. Eurther, as all our best mediums are already
full of work, and it only spoils the, manifestations to
give them an overcrowded circle, why take steps to
bring about such undesirable results ? A second-rate
medium always does more harm than good, so far as
unsympathetic, inquirers are concerned.
On the ground then that if a medium recognised
by the Association should knowingly play tricks, or be
made to play tricks by undeveloped spirits, or have
suspicious-looking manifestations in consequence of the
reflex action of inharmonious influences, or should be
wantonly and aggressively charged without cause with
imposture, the Association might find itself mixed up
in an unpleasant manner with police court cases. The
Association would, in any case, be sure to make enemies
of the more passionate professional mediums not so
recognised, and sooner or later would find itself in
a whirlpool of trouble and discord, just as private
persons have done, who out of pure love to the cause,
have taken charge 'of private circles for a lengthened
time, and who know to a certainty there will be storms
a-head if the Association should officially take charge
of any one or two mediums. The point is doubtful
Deo. 11, 1874. THE SPIJEtlTUALIST. 279
whether it would do well even to let any of its rooms
for public seances, though there is no reason why indi¬
viduals should not hire them for private circles.
In the provinces a mistaken idea prevails that London
Spiritualists revel in a profusion of good seances, which
can only he had in country towns with difficulty and
at a great expense. The truth is that the number of
good mediums is so few, that the great majority of
London Spiritualists have necessarily seen little or
nothing of the best manifestations, and we have often
thought that if good workers in the cause in the
provinces gave a month’s notice before visiting London,
some steps should be taken, say by private individuals,
to enable them to see some of the best manifestations
with private mediums during their stay in town.'
By “ good workers/’ is meant such friends as Messrs.
Lamont Brothers, Messrs. Hinde Brothers, Mr. Chap¬
man, and so on. Mr. Steele, who worked for years in
the cause of Spiritualism in Clerkenwell, once men¬
tioned to us that none of the richer , Spiritualists had
ever invited him to witness a good seance. So long as
there is room at seances for any fashionable individuals
who attend once as a favour on their part, then go
away and pooh pooh the verities they have observed, it
is hard and not right that faithful and true workers
should be shut out.
The question of what use the National Association
shall make of its offices, is intimately connected with
the subject now under notice; in any case but a poor
and precarious income is likely to be derived from
letting rooms for seances, and if those seances be of a
public nature, the Association may before long find its
name committed in a way it will not like. Large
premises will consequently be far more likely to be
self-supporting than small ones in the hands of ener¬
getic officers. The Cavendish Rooms, if they could be
had at £130 a year, would be more remunerative than
small rooms at £70; in fact the balance would be
covered at the outset by the rent for Sunday lectures
and occasional week-day soirees, leaving about six days
per week during which they could be let for other
purposes.
The National Association could help mediums to give
public seances if desirable, by making grants to local
bodies of Spiritualists who desire such aid, and who
will themselves undertake the responsibility of selecting
the medium and of taking charge of the public circle.
' If the Association resolved to get up one good seance
each, for its own members only, it would give offence
to those who were not asked among the first; when¬
ever a bad seance took place, those present would think
themselves entitled to another sitting; if the manifes¬
tations were good, some acute persons would have grave
doubts as to the nature of some of them, and impress
upon the Association the imperative duty of its removing
those doubts by giving them another sitting; next, the
medium would be taken ill, and want a holiday, so
that it would take a year or two for the Association to
give a good seance each to its own members in detach¬
ments of eight at a circle ; and the working officers, let
them do the best they may, would find themselves
in permanent antagonism to a dozen or two of the
members. Those who have had the arranging of
circles, know all these interesting little things from sad
experience.
The nature of physical mediumship is such as to tend
to make Spiritualism spread by social rather than by
public methods, and in this consists much of the strength
of the movement, since social usages are stronger even
than political power, the latter being always overthrown
in any contest between the two, as all history proves.
MR. SPURGEON ON SPIRITS.
Tub following remarks are from the last number of
Mr. Spurgeon’s periodical, The Sword and Trowel, and
they have his initials appended :—
"We may be very wrong, but we confess a weakness
for a ghost story, and cannot help listening to it, and
all the more if it makes the blood curdle and blanches
the cheek. It is a sort of stolen water, and that, as
the wise man says, is sweet. We lived at one time
among a people many of whom devoutly believed in
apparitions, and wizards, and witches, and all that
horrible rout, and often have wo heard the most thrill¬
ing stories—stories, we believe, in more senses than
one. We had sent us for review some little time ago a
book upon apparitions, which claims to be a narrative
of facts; and as we read it through we said, “ Tes,
these were facts where they were done” and we put the
book aside, to be looked up somewhat nearer the end of
the year, when our Christmas number might excuse our
inserting one or more of the aforesaid facts. We are
afraid our readers will think us rather a Sadducee, but
we are nothing of the kind, nor a Pharisee either; but
we do not believe that in nine out of ten ghost stories
there is a ghost of truth, and we are not quite sure
that we believe the tenth one. The Wesley family
undoubtedly were favoured with a very noisy visitant
of some sort, and we have no idea what it was, only
there is no accounting for the noises which rats make
in old houses any more than for the foul gases in new
ones. When we meet with a thing which puzzles us
we pry into the cause as far as we can, and generally
find it out; and if we cannot read the riddle we lay it
by to be solved another day, neVer flying to the old-
fashioned resort of dragging in the supernatural. We
traced a spirit song, after much investigation, to a foot-
warmer filled with hot water, which was being used by
an invalid. We found a band of celestial visitants,
who whispered to us all night in a country house, and
they turned out to be a nest of birds in a hole in the
plaster of the wall at our bed head, which hole nearly
came through into the room. Nothing supernatural
has ever been seen by our eyes, nor do we think we
shall ever be blessed with such visions while in this
body, for after seeing Robert Houdin and other wonder¬
workers we are casehardened against the whole set of
tricks and sham spirits, and these are the parents of
most of the marvels which set silly people’s hair on
end. As a general rule, when we hear of an appari¬
tion, or anything of the kind, we do not believe it to
be other than an illusion or a falsehood. The most
wonderfully well-attested narratives seldom bear in¬
vestigation; they are built up upon hearsay and tittle-
tattle, and will not endure a strict examination; like
most rumours, they fall like card-houses as soon as the
hand of truth touches them. Perhaps a few of them
appear to be so far true that we may safely say that
they are not yet accounted for except upon a super¬
natural hypothesis, but we should hesitate to say more.
Some are evidently the result of strong imagination,
and are true to the parties concerned, affecting their
fears and stamping themselves upon their minds too
firmly to allow them to doubt.
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
In many cases religious delusions and errors create a
tendency to visions and the like, and the most vigorous
repression should be exercised by ministers and other
persons of influence. A woman once called upon us in
great trouble, for she had seen a human form at the
foot of her bed. We suggested that it might he her
own gown hanging on a peg. iNo, that could not be;
she believed it was either the Lord Jesus or Satan.
We remarked that it did not matter a pin which it was,
for many saw the Lord when He was on earth, and
our Lord Himself saw the devil, and yet was none the
worse. To her, however, it was a test matter, and she
informed us that she should have known all about it if
she had seen its head. We inquired how that was, and
to our astonishment she told us that she had a likeness
of the Saviour, and she should have known him by it,
and thereupon pulled out of her pocket a small wood-
cut which was supposed by her to belike the altogether
lovely One. Our reply was an urgent entreatyto burn the
horrid thing at once, and to feel certain that if ever she
saw anybody at all like that, she might be sure that it
was as likely to be Lucifer himself as the Lord Jesus.
She was evidently greatly surprised, and we fell fifty
per cent, in her estimation, for she had expected to
have had the opinion of her own minister, a Methodist,
contradicted by our authority. We told her that her
minister was a very sensible man, and had dealt faith¬
fully with her in telling her not to be deceived by
optical illusions; we question, however, whether we
shook her faith, for she had a budget of other wonders
to tell us, only our declaration that they were P stuff
and nonsense,” and our plain statement of the spiritual
character of true religion, made her cut the interview
very short. Half crazy people come to us in any
quantity with such marvels, and we hope we have
cured a good many by a little kindly raillery; but a
considerable number leave us with the impression sadly
confirmed in our minds that there are more lunatics
abroad than there are in the asylums.
We do not affirm that ghosts have never been seen,
for no one has any right to hazard so broad a statement,
but all spirits, as such, must be invisible, and the two
sorts of human spirits which we know of are both by
far too seriously occupied to go roaming about this
earth rapping on tables or frightening simpletons into
fits. As for angels, though they also, as spirits, are
not cognisable by the senses, no doubt they have been
made visible to men, and there is no reason why they
should not be made so now if God so willed it; it
would certainly be a wonder, but we do not see that
any of the laws of nature need to be suspended to
produce it. We can readily believe that those mes¬
sengers who keep watch around the people of God
would be rendered visible to us and to others if some
grand purpose could be accomplished thereby, and if
the safety of the saints required it. Whether in these
days angels or departed spirits ever do assume forms
in which they can be seen is the question, and we have
as yet seen nothing to lead us to believe that they do.
Others assert that they have seen such things, but, as
they generally admit that they would not have believed
unless they had seen for themselves, we hope they will
allow us to exercise the same abstinence.
Mas. and Miss Showers are in London. Mr. Algernon
Joy is still in Switzerland, so also is Prince Wittgenstein, who
will remain at Vevey for the winter. Mrs. Honywood is in
Italy at Lake Como.
Dec. 11, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM IN HULL.
The following notice of a lecture delivered by Mr. Everitt
in Hull, is from the Hull News:—
On Friday night Mr. T. Everitt, of Hendon, near London,
delivered an address at the Sailors’ Institute, on “ Phenomenal
Spiritualism.”
Mr. T. Thelwall presided over a moderately numerous
audience, and briefly introduced Mr. Everitt, who at the
outset remarked that the chairman had truly described him
as independent of all sects and parties. His single desire was
to help to enlighten his fellow-men, upon a great and all-
important subject. True mediums, Mr. Everitt said, were no
doubt born such. They were not conscious of any change in
themselves, and with very few exceptions they were not aware
of any altered conditions, even while the spirit manifestations
were taking place through their physical organism ; they were
simply mediums between the two worlds. He held in his
hand a slip cut from the Hull News, in which one Mr. Pearce
spoke of the modern marvels of Spiritualism as being attribu¬
table to satanic agency. That gentleman went on to say that
the spirits could not be good angels, and then he referred the
matter to evil spirits, seducing spirits, lying spirits, and so on.
To refute these assertions, Mr. Everitt quoted several cases
of well-known secularists, who, through spirit communion,
had been brought to acknowledge the truths of Christianity.
He mentioned the names of the persons referred to, and added
that Mr. S. C. Hall had told him that for many years he was
regarded as a Christian, but at that time he could not believe
in the miracles described in the Bible ; scientific teaching all
tended to the reverse; but as soon as he saw a modem
miracle—as it was called—then he accepted the miracles of the
Scriptures. Many more names might have been given to show
the fruits of Spiritualism, hence he felt that the preachers
had overshot the target when they attributed these wonderful
things to the devil. Should they give the devil credit for
being a more powerful teacher than those who claimed to be
heaven-appointed ? People would soon become wiser than
their theological teachers; they would know that Spiritualism
was a privilege—a heaven-sent one—which their Father in His
mercy had sent, not to the Christian Churches in particular,
because they turned their backs upon it, but, as it were, to the
Gentiles, who had had no hope of a future existence. Mr.
Everitt then narrated some of the facts which had come within
his own knowledge during his twenty years’ experience of the
subject, describing many remarkable phenomena. The most
marvellous was spirit music, the direct voice, spirit lights, and
direct spirit writing. Sixteen written communications had
been received from “ intelligences,” on the subject of the
” Truthfulness of the Christian Religion,” embracing quota¬
tions from languages unknown to those present at the seances,
and which had subsequently been interpreted. Some of these
communications were written at the speed of 1£>0 words per
second, and the specimen read by Mr. Everitt was a very able
treatise on the subject of Christianity. In conclusion the
lecturer said their object was to help to remove the darkness,
prejudice, and ignorance, with regard to what were called
death and the future life, and also to afford comfort to the
bereaved and sorrowing, who looked upon Death as a cruel
monster. Spiritualism extracted the sting from death, opened
the shining portals of their Father’s house on high, gave
glimpses of the land which flowed with milk and honey, where
the inhabitants never grew weary or faint, where everything
was life, and where there was no more death.
At the close Mr. Everitt replied to several questions having
relation to the subject of his discourse, and his answers ap¬
peared to give satisfaction to all but one gentleman, who
desired to enter into an argument on the subject of Spiritualism
versus Christianity.
The usual votes of thanks having been passed, the meeting
closed.
Mr. Trhbner sold out all his first supply of Dr. Crowell’s
valuable book on Spiritualism in a few days, so it will be
three or four weeks before he Obtains more from America.
Mrs. Jackson’s Lectures.—Mrs. J. W. Jackson
delivered the first of her series of three lectures last Wed¬
nesday, at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, who has
kindly lent her drawing-room for the purpose. Mrs. Jackson
has two fatherless children to support, and, as the late Mr.
J. W. Jackson was a warm promoter of psychological inquiry,
friends should take tickets liberally for Mrs. Jackson’s lec¬
tures.
Dec. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
AN ILLUSTRATED SPIRITUAL PERIODICAL.
BY WILLIAM H. IIABBISOW.
Since the project of the issue of an illustrated monthly
Spiritual periodical, of standard character and elegant ap¬
pearance, was mooted in these pages, I have discovered that
there are mediums in private life who possess spirit drawings
of remarkable power and beauty, some of them of a symboli¬
cal character, others representing scenes and landscapes such
as were never seen upon this earth. Consequently it has
been suggested that the engraving of many of these pictures
would be good work done in the cause of Spiritualism, and
prove of considerable interest to the subscribers and their
friends.
The suggestion has also been made that unless a large num¬
ber of portraits were engraved, there would be a difficulty,
and perhaps apparently invidious distinctions in making
selections. Four portraits could conveniently be published
on one page, in ovals with ornamental surroundings, and
unless the way were clear to engrave twenty or thirty in the
volume, it would be best perhaps to give none.
The places in which the leading events in connection with
the history of modern Spiritualism have taken place, should
be engraved while it is yet possible to do so. In London, for
instance, changes are so prevalent, that buildings and halls
connected with the early history of the movement, are liable
to be altered and pulled down. Exteriors and interiors of the
homesteads in which the seances of the Eddy’s and Mrs.
Andrews have been held, together with pictures representing
the seances themselves, also the scenes at the photographing
of spirits in London with the magnesium or electric lights,
should be engraved now; a few years hence the power of
doing so may be gone.
It usually takes about two months to bring about extensive
concerted action in Spiritualism, and although it was desired
to enlist enough subscribers in a fortnight, only about two
hundred have entered their names, though it is known that
many others intend doing so. Some say they will take
the journal when it comes out, but as it will not come out
unless a sufficient number is guaranteed beforehand, and as it
is not desired that those friends who at the present time have
heavily weighted themselves with necessary expenses in con¬
nection with Spiritualism, should specially take up this matter
also, the appearance of the journal calculated to strongly
influence people of education and culture, and to ward off the
lingering remnant of ridicule and abuse of Spiritualism still
rampant in the public mind, depends upon a large number of
persons entering their names for a few copies.
As the first volumes of The Spiritual Magazine are now
worth a guinea each, what will be the value to the possessors
a few years hence of the magnificent volume now projected ?
It will thus be noticed that the present suggestion is not one
entailing self-sacrifice on anybody, but it is one in which good
is done to the movement and full value for the outlay received
by the promoters at the same time.
I have written to friends in the United States, with the view
of getting the matter taken up there, for with one foot in
America and the other in this country, there is probably
plenty of foundation for such a journal, which is not intended
to be a narrow or local one, but to serve the interests of the
whole movement everywhere. Some weeks must elapse before
the support from the other side of the Atlantic can be known,
and if in the meantime the list on this side grows steadily
larger, in a short time the proposed periodical-will be an
accomplished fact. There will be a certain amount of support
from Australia which can be estimated beforehand, as there is
not time to hear from there, and perhaps more may come in
from the Continent when the readers of The Spiritualist there
remember what exceptional expenses a few of our most earnest
workers have at present in organising.
This being one of the very rare occasions on which I am
before the public—for I fully sympathise with Dr. Gully’s
views that we ought all to keep ourselves in the background,
and to take a pleasure in doing even the humblest kind of
work, provided it be for the good of the cause—I seize
the opportunity to briefly mention a personal matter. The
Pioneer recently printed in a leading article that a person
had written to it expressing disapproval of the money-making
spirit of all the spiritual periodicals. The following facts
explain how far this misstatement affects me:—Five years
ago there was no newspaper in Spiritualism, nothing but
monthly literature, all of a magazine character, and the speakers
at the Gower-street Conferences complained that there was no
newspaper, and that their procsedings were unrecorded. I
accordingly started the first newspaper, The Spiritualist;
it gave shorthand reports, and was adapted to the requirements
of the scientific mind ; it was published fortnightly, with the
announcement in the first number that it was intended
eventually to come out weekly. From that day to this I
voluntarily gave up an average of half my literary work on other
journals, to give time to Spiritualism, consequently during
those five years my income has averaged half or less than half
what it was before, as the account books of those journals will
show. Nobody asked me to do this, so nobody else is respon¬
sible ; I have never regretted the step, for the consequent
knowledge of Spiritualism has been infinitely more than a
recompense. A few months later other journals began to come
into the field, too cheap to stand any chance of living without
artificial aid, consequently the subscription system was intro¬
duced, but as I believed in self-supporting principles, I would
have nothing to do with the subscription system, and
fought against it single-handed without a word of com¬
plaint, either in public or private, although about £1,000 a
year of the public money was used (I do not say with
that intention or from bad motives) in such a way as to
tend to drive me out of a field I had been the first to
enter. Thus the public, by means of funds which they gave
from the highest and purest motives, and which probably did
do a certain amount of good to the movement, were, without
knowing or intending it, inflicting heavy financial losses on me
for years. I did not speak out, because there was no repre¬
sentative body of Spiritualists to complain to) so the matter
might have been considered a wrangle bet ween newspapers, and I
thought what a pity it would be did such inharmony creep into
the movement; moreover, I thought the public would see the
injustice of one-sided subscriptions for themselves, and the
fallacy of putting a veto on self-supporting principles. When
matters were at their worst, I began to talk of these things
privately, and feel deeply grateful to Mr. Charles Blackburn
for finding some private experimental work for me to do in con¬
nection with Spiritualism, over which he made a liberal six
months’ engagement'; for although I have always more scientific
literary engagements offered than I can accept, it is too great
a strain on the mind to supply the educated public with much
advanced information, on heavy scientific subjects, while my
thoughts are naturally out of those subjects and deep in Spirit¬
ualism. Later still, when I at last gave in to the subscription
system which I had fought against for years, Mr. Blackburn
and Mr. Oxley started a list with Mr. Blyton as secretary, and
although very few Spiritualists were asked to join, in one or
two weeks about £200 a year for three years was guaranteed;
anybody may have a copy of the list by applying to Mr.
Blyton. Thus my “ money-getting ” spirit has consisted in
giving up for five years half my previous income, and stand¬
ing single-handed for two or three years against about £1,000 of
Spiritualists’capital, used with out the knowledge of the donors
in such a way as to tend to drive me off the stage of action,
without my uttering a word of complaint in public, nor for a
long time in private, the power I was serving not being that
of man. These hardships were entirely my own fault, arising
from not speaking out, for when any reasonable case has been
put before Spiritualists they have always proved warm-hearted
friends; indeed, considering the small dimensions of the
movement, the amount of liberality is surprising.
These very simple and very true facts, long unknown even
in private, are now made public, for the public life only of
public workers is generally known; these, I have discovered,
cannot silently “ live down ” abuse and misunderstanding, so
I have thought it well for this once to speak out.
Before quitting this personal subject of my money-getting
propensities, as' set forth in The Pioneer, I hare great pleasure
in stating that, as I have found Mr. Blackburn—a compara¬
tively new acquaintance—one of the truest friends of later
years in connection with my work in Spiritualism, Mr. and
Mrs. Yarley were the earliest. They made Spiritualism known
to me; they first showed me manifestations through Mrs.
Yarley’s mediumship, they introduced me to the best mediums
before The Spiritualist newspaper was started, and gave me
facilities for years for carrying on inquiries, with an amount
of disinterested kindness I shall never forget.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 11, 1874.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
On Thursday last week, a soiree, under the auspices of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, was held at the
Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street, London. The
hall was tastefully arranged with tables decorated with plants,
and covered with objects of interest. Among the things ex¬
hibited were a lock of Katie King’s hair side by side with one
of Mrs. Corner’s (Florence Cook) showing the striking con¬
trast of colour; some photographs with well-defined spirit-
faces, by Hudson, the sitters being Mrs. Boss-Church and
Mrs. Keningale Cook; flowers brought by Katie, and pieces of
her dress and veil, and her farewell writing, lent by Mrs. Boss-
Church and Mrs. Cook of Hackney. A large-sized drawing of
spirit-heads massed together in a cloud after the fashion of
the angel back-grounds of the old masters, drawn “ under in¬
fluence” by Mrs. Harriett Budd, of Brixton ; a frame of direct
writing, minute, but beautifully clear, lent by Mr. T. Everitt;
the drawings “ by a girl twelve years of age” : a book con¬
taining portraits of some of the foreign members of the Asso¬
ciation ; several paintings illustrative of the skill of the
artists who will help to illustrate the proposed new spiritual
periodical; some photographs of spirit-drawings of remark¬
able character; eight scenes in the spirit-world given through
drawing mediumship; a large photograph of Katie King
taken by Mr. Harrison under the magnesium light; various
other photographs and drawings were also exhibited.
There was a good attendance, and altogether it was one of
the liveliest and happiest social gatherings of Spiritualists
which have (been held for a long time. Dr. Gully presided,
and among those present were Mr. Martin B. Smith; Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Man¬
chester ; Mrs. Boss-Church and the Misses Boss-Church;
Mrs. George Neville; Mr., Mrs., and Miss Martheze, also Mr.
Martheze, junior; Mrs. William Tebb; Mr. B. Hannah ; Mrs.
Budd; Miss Ponder; the Misses Withall; Mr. N. Fabyan
Dawe ; Miss Scott; Miss Poyser ; the Misses Williamson ;
Miss Dickson ; Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan; Mr. T. Slater; Mrs.
and Miss Kislingbury; Major S. B. I. Owen; Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald and Miss Fitz-Gerald; Mr. Gledstanes j
and Mr. and Mrs. Chinnery, of Paris ; Mr. W. P. Adshead, of
Belper; Mr., Mrs., and Miss Bogers, and Mr. Bogers, junior ;
Mr. Glendinning, of Glasgow; Mrs. Lowe; Mr. E. T. Bennett;
Mrs. E. Corner (Florence Cook) ; Mr. G. B. Tapp; Mrs.
Cook and Miss K. Cook; the Misses Eagar; Mr. Ashman;
Mr. Charles Hunt; Mr. T. Blyton; Messrs. Haxby Brothers ;
and other warm friends of the cause too numerous to mention.
The evening was enlivened by music of a superior quality.
Tlie Misses Withall opened the proceedings with a brilliant
duet, “ A Selection from Euryanthe.” After the speeches,
Mrs. Boss-Church sang with great feeling and power, “ The
Shadow of the Cross,” and later on the same lady gave
Kingsley’s song, “When all the World was Young,” with so
much spirit and effect that an encore was demanded, Miss
Eva Boss-Church played an accompaniment on the piano ;
Miss Bogers sang very sweetly, “ The Cradle Song ;” and Mr.
Chinnery contributed a song by Budall, a Spiritualist com¬
poser. The Misses Withalls also gave another duet, ‘ ‘ Hun¬
garian Dances.” The sociability of the evening was promoted
by some of the ladies, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs.
Morell Theobald, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mrs. Budd, and Miss
Withall presiding at the tea-tables.
After tea Dr. Gully took the president’s chair, and the
business proceedings of the evening began. There was not
much speech-making, in which respect this soiree was superior
to its predecessors in the matter of the promotion of general
sociability. At soirees three speeches of good quality, and of
ten or twelve minutes’ duration each, will be found to be
sufficient.
DB. GULLY ON HOW SPIBITUALISTS SHOULD MEET.
Dr. Gully, in opening the proceedings of the evening, said:
As this is a purely sociable meeting, and as I understand that
there is to be nothing like discussion enacted, I am not very
clear as to the cause of my being here in the chair. It might
have been that I was placed here as master of the ceremonies,
to introduce you to each other, but as that has already been
done, I trust, by one of the best of social introductions, a cup
of tea, the only thing that occurs to me to do is to utter a few
sentences on one of the aspects- in which the subject about
which we rill take an interest presents itself, and which has refer¬
ence to the social character of this very meeting.. I believe it
is understood generally (and elsewhere I have stated emphati¬
cally), that the main object of our Association is to facilitate
the investigation and collection of the facts which Spiritualism
now presents or may further present. But in this, as in all
other subjects of intellectual or moral interest, it is the ever-
existing tendency of the human thought to build edifices on
the facts; and each spirit of individual man builds his own
house in which he lives the interior life. So long as he does
this and makes no attempt to drag other spirits into his own
house, reviling or despising them if they refuse to enter, this
building process can do no harm to any one save the builder ;
and then only if he has erected a house in which prejudice,
persecution, narrowness of thought, and selfishness of aim
live with him—a house which he fondly hopes may defend
him from conscience, denial of self, pity and love for his
neighbour, and exalted thought, which are seeking entrance
from outside, and from above. But if out of the facts of
Spiritualism a man can find the materials for an abode for the
culture of the generous and the loving, the trusting and the
long-suffering, the bearing and forbearing, the friendly and the
helping spirits who are always about us and joyful to enter in,
I cannot but think that it is a good and wholesome work to be
ever extracting materials for such edifices from the facts in
question. I am quite aware of the peril of drawing conclusions
too speedily or too extensively from any subject of experiment
whatever, and especially from one surrounded by so many
obscurities and contradictions as ours; but, as I said, if the
inferences are such as inculcate and lead to the elevation and
purification of the spiritual man, no one is justified in saying
that they can be harmful to that man : they may not be pre¬
cise and accurate, and yet be most useful. Now the facts of
Spiritualism tell us that we are in reality and essence spiritual
bodies, the body of flesh being only a passing phenomenon; that
in the life after leaving this last-named body the spiritual man
progresses by the same process by which he strives to progress
here, viz., by the constant cultivation of his spiritual being,
although under more favourable circumstances than can be
well obtained whilst the lower needs of the body besiege him;
that just in proportion to the constancy and energy of these
progressive efforts is the beauty, the power, the peace, the
attitude of the spiritual man. As that man is here—on earth
—in his body, there is no occasion to wait for the sense of
that attitude, peace, and power until he gets out of his body;
his heaven or his hell begins here, more certainly than it
begins five minutes after his body has drawn its last breath, as
is so commonly held. With these facts, the outspring and
the essence of Spiritualism, am I not justified in the opinion
that of all people Spiritualists should ever have in their
thoughts that they are spirits walking the earth, spirits
having constant communion with others who need not the
earth to walk upon, spirits who can choose the character of the
communion which they thus hold, spirits who are accountable
for that choice both to the Central Spirit whence all derive,
and to all other spirits among whom they abide ? All this
may be held, and some of it is held, as a dogmatic belief by
people who have not looked into Spiritualism at all; but with
such, all being indefinite, the idea of spiritual communion
being utterly misty, nay, the spirit itself altogether unintel¬
ligible and inexpressible, the belief may hang very loosely on
them, and cannot force upon them the strong motive and
necessity for living as a spirit which Spiritualistic inquirers
possess, in their more defined knowledge of the being and the
mode of communion of spirit-life out of the body. This was
my reason for saying that, more than all others, Spiritualists
should live with the constant sense within them that they are
spirits—and essentially only spirits—whilst in their earthly
career. If Spiritualism led to no other result than this, it
would still be a great result, for it would lead to the cultivation
of the interior life, and render the exterior life less and less
attractive and absorbing—that exterior life-world whence
come all our temptations to the material and the evil. We
have been told what “ the fruits of the spirit” are, and among
them prominently is love—such love as puts self aside and
lives in and for communion with others—such love as a true
Spiritualist ought well to comprehend. It is into this abode
of spiritual love, this house built on the facts of Spirit¬
ualism that I invite you to enter on social occasions of this
kind. Enter where hatred, malice, and uncharitableness
cannot live; the air is too pure and light for them
to breathe into their coarse and earthly lungs. Enter
where pride of place and soul, where sordidness and pride
Deo. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
of purse, are ill at ease, for neither place nor purse gives
nobility here. Enter where grovelling meanness and sensual
foulness are repulsed at the very threshold, so antagonistic is
spiritual love to them. In such a house it is that Spiritualists
should meet. They should meet in' the knowledge that their
several abodes hereafter are in their choice here ; that interior
progress is the law of their existence now and hereafter; that
their heaven or their hell begins here; that when the spirit
awakes out of its solid tenement of flesh, it will be either
astounded at the darkness around it or enchanted with the
brightness, in proportion as it has built up and lived in this
house of love within itself. For, within each of us must such
a house be made, and will be made if we are constantly
conscious that immortality and progress are our essence and
destiny. We shall live in spiritual love because the loves of
the earthly body and of the material world are well known by
us to vanish with that body, though if made our practice here
they will cling to our spiritual body, and constitute its dark¬
ness and heaviness hereafter, causing its progress to be that of
a weak and laden being. We shall live in spiritual love
because we well know that only thus can we be in communion
with, and be aided by, spirits living in the power and beauty
and peace of the spirit-world. In brief, we shall live in spiritual
love because so only can we anticipate what that world out of
the body is. And all this shall we do because we have assured
ourselves that there is a spirit body and a world for it to live
in. We are accused of undermining religion ; can any extant
form of religion offer incentives—nay, forcible constraints—to
spiritual life more than our facts do ? Is there not a glorious
temple capable of being erected on them ? A temple to holy
love and holy intercommunion, to charity, to purity, to truth¬
fulness, to every spiritual grandeur and grace—a temple, too, not
raised by human hands (which may be foul) or filled with
human devices (which may be foolish or perverting), but a
temple eternal in the immortal spirit-body—in the building of
which the artificers have been lofty spirits in communion with
ours, and inspired by the Great Central Spirit whose aid we
seek in prayer and in conduct of life. Let our volition act to
seek such aid and communion, let us, as I said before, be
never forgetful, for one instant, that we are spirits, and I feel
very sure that such a simple religion of spiritual communion
will lead mankind to far different results from those we behold
around—from a world filled with pride, money-hunting, self-
seeking, low and vile aims and desires—a world which only
suffices for the grovelling wishes and delights of the thousands
on thousands who refuse to credit the existence of any beyond
it! I cannot believe that the Spiritualist’s religion could land
him in a worse plight than that in which mankind is at this
present found to be spiritually. But there should be no crafty
rule of churches and priests in our midst, nor great names, nor
aristocratic airs and domineering interference. Spiritualism
is essentially a democratic agent; it says to a man, “What
your spirit is, that you are—no more, nor less; there is no
other measure of you than that of your spiritual condition; ” it
says, “In my circle no fine feathers make fine birds, save the
wings of the spirit, which, folded, keep you to earth and
earth’s evils, but which, expanded and moved by the soul’s
volition and aspiration, make you great and glorious and
shining in far more lofty regions and societies than those for
which mortal ambition barters the immortal part of hu¬
manity.”
Now, ladies and gentlemen, will you enter the abode of
spiritual love and kindliness in the evening’s converse, and
talk nothing but what is charitable and teaching—worthy of
your elevating, enlightening, and comforting beliefs. (Ap¬
plause.)
MB. MABTIN E. SMITH ON THE WOBK OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Martin R. Smith said:—I have been asked to say a few
words here this evening upon a subject which interests us all
very deeply, viz., the progress hitherto made by this Associa¬
tion, and the work that it has been able to perform. I should
only be deceiving myself and you if I were to endeavour to
prove that any great amount of work had been done, or that
we had been able to establish ourselves on a very solid or im¬
movable basis. Nevertheless, something has been done, and
that little, I think I may venture to say, has been well done.
In the first place the Association, in spite of lukewarm friends
and avowed enemies, has actually struggled into existence.
This is in itself no small matter, and it is solely owing to the
patient industry of a small band of workers; I will not mention
their names, for in the first place they are well known to you,
and secondly I might inadvertently be guilty of injustice in
omitting some name well worthy of grateful remembrance.
Personally I am not of this band; I am a busy man, and I am
ashamed to say that in the past I have grudged the time,
which others have so patiently given. As I say, the Associa¬
tion has struggled into existence. A well-considered code of
laws and regulations has been framed, and a Council has been
formed, who meet regularly, and as the attendance book will
show, in numbers which prove the interest they take in the
affairs and progress of the Association. You may say, “ This
is all very well, but we as subscribers to the Association, ex¬
pected some more tangible result in return for our money.”
If two or three years hence we were to come before you with
no more to say than we have this evening, such a remark
would be just, and the censure it conveyed well deserved.
This evening I think it would be unjust, and I will tell you
why. I must look upon this question to a certain extent from
a business point of view, especially from an hon. treasurer’s
point of view, [and I tell you plainly that, in my humble
opinion, so long as the funds of the Association remain in
their present low condition, there can be little real work done.
What we might do, if we had funds at our disposal, is to en¬
gage lecturers and hire large rooms where they might be
heard. Protect and educate our mediums who were found to
require such aid. (Applause.) Support, or at any rate en¬
courage, first-class journals and magazines. Establish schools
where our children might receive a rational education. Aid
and if necessary subsidise local associations. Give prizes for
essays on the great subject which so deeply interests us
(Applause), and in these and in a thousand other ways force
our creed into a prominence which at present it cannot hope
to attain. But all these things cannot he done without a
large expenditure, and as we have determined to adhere to the
good old principle of cutting our coat to our cloth, we must
for the present content ourselves with gazing upon them as
the penniless ragamuffin gazes at the good things in the pastry¬
cook’s window. After all, if the ragamuffin had his wicked way
of all the good things whichhe saw,hewould probably be exceed¬
ingly ill (Laughter), and I think it very probable that if we sud¬
denly came into possession of funds which would entitle us to
make all the experiments above mentioned, we, too, might
make a mess of it. There is an old saying that “ No one can
make a wise use of prosperity until he has been trained in the
school of adversity,” and an older that “ We must learn to
walk ere we can run.” We shall infallibly make plenty of
mistakes, and I am one of those who prefer a gentle stumble
to a magnificent collapse. I must not forget, however, to
remind you of one good thing which the Association has done.
The Conference this year was held under its auspices, and I
venture to say with mutual benefit and satisfaction. I was
sorry to see in one of the spiritual periodicals a letter animad¬
verting rather severely on the Council for having expended
the sum of £40 on this meeting of conference. This is not
the time or place to defend such expenditure, but I feel sure
that when the time arrives for us to give an account of our
stewardship, that you will approve the outlay. Much has
been said, and in a somewhat bitter spirit against the Associa¬
tion as aspiring to place itself at the head of this great
movement. This accusation has been time after time
energetically repudiated, but whilst I admit that there is at
present no ground for such an accusation, I cannot myself
see (even if it were true), that we have the smallest cause
to he ashamed of it. In all movements there must be
leaders, it is irrational to deny it. They will be fur¬
nished by the highest intelligences interested in the matter,
and I question very much whether it is not better for us to be
guided by the collective wisdom of,*an Association such as
this, rather than by any individual, however gifted, however
influential. This Association, if it act wisely, must in time
incorporate all these leading spirits, and I must here remind
you of an advantage which I venture to think will result from
such incorporation. Spiritualists are, as a rule, men of some in¬
dependence of ideas, and originality of thought, and perhaps
the world is not altogether wrong when it goes so far as to
charge us with eccentricity. Well, I believe that the mere
fact of mutual Association and criticism will tend to put a
check on all personal eccentricity, and to control and direct
individual aims, for the ideas of very brilliant minds often,
like uncut diamonds, derive their highest lustre and their true
marketable value, from the finish that is put upon them by
the labour of very humble workers. In short, I believe in the
collective wisdom of a multitude of councillors. So says also
the whole experience of mankind. Be this as it may—either
some few individuals, or some society such as this, must take
the lead in this movement; there must be officers to every
284
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Deo. 11, 1874.
army, or what is it but an undisciplined mob ? If the Asso¬
ciation is worthy of the post of leader, it will infallibly take it
in spite of the clamour Of those who love it not. If it is un¬
worthy it will as infallibly fall into contempt, and eventually
perish. There are others who maintain that this Association
is unnecessary, on the ground that Spiritualism is a private
and sacred matter, and requires neither officers, society, nor
paraphernalia of publicity. True, friends, as regards personal
Spiritualism. But Spiritualism has something more to do
than the consolation of the bereaved, or the knitting together
of hearts in your family circle. It has a great public work to
perform—to open men’s eyes, to pour wisdom into their hearts,
to abate their selfishness, and to sanctify and elevate their
motives. (Applause.) How can it be said then that Spirit¬
ualism has not public as well as private dutie's ? As well say
that it is an error to have churches and services and ministers
of religion, because, forsooth, you have family prayers at
home. I would ask therefore those who think that this
Association may do good work, to be patient and just.
Remember that at the present time we are almost penniless,
and that in this state we can do nothing—nothing but watch
and wait. Personally, I have no fear of the result. I trust to
the kindly assistance of the bright intelligences that hover
round us, to preserve us from any serious or fatal mistakes,
and further, I think that belief in the truths of Spiritualism is
rapidly spreading, and must result in the accession to the
Association of numerous and powerful friends who will not
grudge their assistance to the good work. Do not, however,
let us deceive ourselves. It is a common practice to declare
that Spiritualists are to be numbered by thousands. I believe
this to be a silly and a mischievous delusion, and that as
regards the number in the metropolis, we should be nearer the
mark if we were to put them at 1,000, or 1,500. (Hear, hear.)
It may be perfectly true that there is a very much larger
number, whose attention has been turned to the subject, and
who have ceased to regard it with scorn or ridicule, but I am
speaking of those only to whom the Association has a right to
look for countenance and support. But, friends, although
there were these thousands ready to lay their lives down, if
necessary, to promote the truths of Spiritualism, let us
remember that the Almighty alone can give success to their
endeavours. If it please Him in His infinite goodness to
grant to our age powerfully-gifted mediums, then nothing can
arrest the progress of the movement; they are the persons, and
they alone, through whom these truths can be made manifest
to the world, and we should do well to look after them
more carefully than we have hitherto done. (Applause.)
In concluding my remarks I would urge all those who take
an interest in this Association, to give to it the eyes, hands,
and feet, i.e. the pounds, shillings, and pence, which alone
can enable it to do its work. Those who love our beautiful
faith should, at any rate, give us the opportunity of trying what
we can do. (Applause.)
ME. HAKPEK ON OBGANISATION.
Mr. R. Harper said that as Spiritualists had possession of
a truth which they wished to disseminate for the good of
mankind, what was the testimony of the common sense of
humanity in connection with everything else whatever, as to
the use of organisation? Would the churches have stood as
they have done without organisation ? A cumulative power
existed in organisation. Local organisations were found to be
absolutely necessary in Spiritualism, and if a principle were
true locally it must be good nationally; organisation was
therefore absolutely necessary to give cumulative speed to the
chariot of Spiritualism. He narrated how the introduction
of theological matters had led to long and wearisome debates
in the Council, and how when at length a clause savouring of
theology had been placed in the principles of the Association,
an overwhelming majority of the members had it struck out
altogether. It was difficult and ruinously expensive, as he
knew from experience, to get good mediums in the provinces,
so the Association should try to remedy this ; it should sus¬
tain good mediums at fixed salaries. Lecturers should be
engaged and sent to those parts of the country, where the
local Spiritualists are not sufficiently rich or numerous to
engage speakers for themselves. (Applause.)
MB. EOGEES ON POPULAB MISTAKES.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that a number of Spiritualists had
taken it intg their heads that the National Association had
been started out of spite, to injure some spiritualistic friends.
As one who had been a member of'the Council from the first,
and who had attended very nearly all its meetings, he could
testify that on no single occasion had the Council thought or
spoke a single word tending to injure the business of any
person or persons, or section of Spiritualists whatever.
Whenever any subject had been hinted at, which might be
supposed to have a shadow of a shade of an appearance of
being intended to injure anybody, the idea had been put
down at once for that simple reason, no matter whether it were
calculated to do good to the movement or not. Eligible rooms,
in every way convenient, had been offered to the National
Association within three doors of the shop of Mr. Burns, but
were at once rejected, and would not be taken on any terms,
for the reasons just mentioned ; he should like to see Mr. Burns
working with the Association. If anybody thought that the
National Association wished to injure any person or persons
in their business, or otherwise, it was a mistake. (Applause.)
The Association recognised all Spiritualists as brethren, and it
had nothing to do with men’s religious creeds. (Applause.)
It only asked—“ Are you a Spiritualist ? If so, give us your
right hand and work with us!” He hoped that the present
members would work actively to bring in others, and before
sitting down he would move a vote of thanks to the Chairman,
which was what he purposed doing when he arose to address
the meeting. ,
Thif/ was seconded, and carried with acclamation.
A TBANCE ADDBESS ON OBGANISATION.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, in the trance state said:—“ Every
flower which my Heavenly Father hath not planted shall be
rooted up.” We have heard of organisation to-night. We
believe the difference between institutions of men and orga¬
nisations of God to be that the one is a framework without a
soul, whilst the other exhibits the growth of a body from the
spirit. When the naturalist hears of a rare plant in distant
lands, he crosses continents and seas that he may trans¬
plant the wonderful flower, and bring it to his own
clime. He sees that room is made for it, that a
garden is prepared, and he places it in suitable soil; he
takes care that the chilling winds do not blow upon its deli¬
cate petals. Spiritualism is a heaven-born plant found in
the wilderness of life, growing in a wild and desert place.
But the gardeners—the true Spiritualists—desire to take this
flower into their own gardens, to remove it from the wild
tangle of briars, and to allow it-to yield its fruition to the
sky and to God. Throughout the world, even in desert
places, the hand of God is extended, and He asks for gar¬
deners to attend to the rare and humble flower. We are
not building a tomb or a monastery, but making a bright
garden, and when this tree of life shall yield its fruit to
future ages, when children shall play under its branches,
when its shade shall be extended to all—to the poor and
weary ones of earth—when the soil around shall grow fertile,
we shall not despise this day of small beginnings, wherein
the seeds of the fruit of Spiritualism have been planted.
Each one should be content to fill the office of water-
bearer, since tears of love and sympathy bring forth an
abundant harvest of good for the world. (Applause.)
The rest of the evening was spent in singing, music, and
conversation.
Supeestitions op the Kobogars.—Last Tuesday night
at a meeting of the Anthropological Institute, 4, St. Martin’s-
place, Trafalgar-square, London, Mr. J. E. Price, F.S.A., pre¬
sided. Mr. M. J. Walhouse read a paper on “ A Leaf-Wearing
Tribe on the Western Coast of India;” it related to a slave
caste tribe in the Madras Provinces, named the Korogars;
the women wear cloth round the hips, and a leaf apron behind,
about twenty inches square: being outside the cloth it is of
no use whatever, any more than an English “ pannier,” and
is probably the dying-out remnant of a prehistoric custom of
wearing leaves. The Korogars believe in witchcraft, and by
brandings and floggings punish those who send out evil spirits
to annoy others. They worship with Jbloody rites Mari
Amma, the goddess presiding over small-pox; the heads of
animals are cut off before her by Asadis, at a single blow;
they also worship local demons, evil spirits, or goblins, called
Bhutas, legions of whom are supposed to be spread over the
country. The special Bhuta of the Korogars is called Katu ;
boiled rice, coloured with turmeric, is laid for her under a tree,
They put food on the graves of their dead for the benefit of
the spirits. A paper by Mr. Rooke Pennington, LL.D., was
then read by Mr. Brabroob, on “Some Tumuli and Stone
Circles near Castleton, Derbyshire,” in which district he had
been digging up some interesting prehistoric curiosities. A
paper by Major Godwin-Austen on “ The Stone Monuments of
the Khasi Hills,” closed the proceedings.
Deg. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
foetrg.
SPIRIT TEACHING.
’Twas summer and the flowers were gay,
And day was melting into night;
I sat and watched the changing light
While Philomela trilled her lay.
Then, as pale stars lit up the sky
And hushed was all the scene around,
A spirit by my side I found—
One I well knew in days gone by.
It seemed so like the days of old
I questioned not how it could be,
But harkened as it turned to me,
With signs to list!—and this it told—
“ Though lost to sight, we’re ever near,
We light the dreary paths you tread:
There is more life among the dead,
Than ’mong the living forms so dear—
“ Forms which decay as grows within
The spirit-life, which longs to free
Itself from earth’s impurity,
Thus life and light eterne to win.
“ No more we seek our body-home ;
It sinks to perish in the dust,
Never again to nurture lust,
Nor to reform in years to come.
“ Give up false creed, that life is sown
In mouldering clay whose mission's past:
God’s plan allows not a return
To bodies dead, nor creeds outgrown.
“ Your earthly body, as it dies,
Yields up its resurrection joy
In spirit-life without alloy,
Fit remnant for God’s holy skies.”
Hendon. M. T.
(EmeapoiTDence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
WONDERFUL TEST OF SPIRIT POWER.
Sir,—In your last you make allusion to myself and friend
witnessing certain phenomena, but we witnessed also Mr.
Crookes, F.R.S., tie his medium, Mrs. Corner (late Miss
Cook), with narrow tape very tight round her neck, and
fastened by six knots and then stitched with silk and sealed
with his signet ring, leaving two long ends of the tape for
further use; next he tied her wrists together equally tight
with tape, and knotted, and stitched, and sealed as above,
leaving two long ends as above described; he did the same
with the waist, and the same with the left ankle. The medium
then lay full length on the hearth-rug and Mr. Crookes laid
his library ladder by her side, and fastened the four loose
tapes direct to the ladder, viz., at the neck, at the waist, at the
wrists, and at the ankle; these four places were all knotted
and sewn, and sealed, exactly as the above. Myself and
friend, and others now left the room, and as soon as Mr.
Crookes had shut out the gas he followed, and stood with us
all the time in the adjoining laboratory in gas-light, and
looked at his watch, which told us it had taken to do all the
fastenings three-quarters of an hour ; but in five minutes the
medium asked us inside, and on lighting the gas we found the
four tapes uncut and as perfect as when first fastened on to her
and to the ladder, they lay strewed about, and I retain the neok
tape, which my friend saw fastened, whilst Mr. Crookes re¬
tains the others. The medium rose up liberated by the
spirits, and not by any act of her own. I on another occasion
saw a spirit form come out of the medium’s cabinet and on re¬
turning in again the spirit asked Mr. Crookes to hold the curtain
aside so that we all could see inside, and we all saw the spirit
go up to her medium who lay in trance on the floor, lift the
medium’s hand, take the rings off her fingers and bring them
to Mrs. Crookes who sat next to me, and I say it is wilful
blindness for people not to believe facts like these stated.
* Charles Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
December 6th, 1874.
INFORMATION WANTED FROM AMERICA.
Sir,—Will you oblige me by, the insertion of the following
statement, in the hope that some of your American readers
may be able to assist me in identifying the communicating
spirit, and verifying his operations ?
In the month of August last, I was, staying with Dr. Speer,
at Shanklin, Isle of Wight. We had a number of sittings, and
at one of them a spirit communicated, who gave his name as
Abraham Florentine. He said that he had been concerned in
the war of 1812, and that he had lately entered spirit life at
Brooklyn, U.S.A., on August 5th, at the age of 83 years,
1 month, and 17 days. We had some difficulty at first in
making out whether the month and days referred to the age
or to the length of his illness, but he returned on the following
evening, and cleared up the difficulty.
Among the great number of similar cases which have
occurred in our circle, I know of none which has not proved
literally exact in every single particular. No mistake or mis¬
statement has been made, and 1 have, therefore, every reason
to anticipate that this case is also true. I shall be grateful to
any one who will enable me to say positively whether it is so.
The manner in which the communication was made was
most singular. We were seated, three in number, round a
heavy loo-table which two persons would move with difficulty.
Instead of raps, to which we are accustomed, the table com¬
menced to tilt. So eager was the communicating spirit that
the table rose some seconds before the required letter was
arrived at. In order to mark T it would rise, quivering with
excitement in a manner perfectly indescribable, about K, and
then descend at T with a thump that shook the floor. This
was repeated until the whole message was complete, but so
eager was the spirit, and so impetuous in his replies, that he
bewildered Dr. and Mrs. Speer completely (I was in deep trance),
and caused the process to be prolonged over the whole sitting.
If I may venture On a guess, I should say that Abraham
Florentine was a good soldier, a fighting man not nice to meet,
and that he retains enough of his old impetuosity to rejoice at
his liberation from the body which (if I may guess again) had
become a burden to him through a painful illness.
Will the American papers copy, and enable me to verify my
facts and guesses ? M. A. (Oxon.).
DIFFERENCES.
Sir,—I rejoice to know from Dr. Gully that he is a better
Christian than I. Long may he continue so. He has theo¬
logical beliefs, so have I. He has a right to think as he
does, so have I.
Dr. Gully’s heterodox beliefs are now clear. The “ strol¬
ling player” and the “Chinaman” spirits who develope
through Mr. Morse, and the vagaries tumbling about in the
brain of G. Massey are obvious. If they and others un¬
ceasingly strut their diverse heterodoxy in print, or on the
platform, I and others claim the right to let the outside
public know, that there are orthodox Christian Spiritualists.
We cannot allow heterodoxy to play King Stork..
During the last twenty years neither through platform
speeches, nor press articles, have I once given out the details
of my belief on theological questions. Have heterodox
Spiritualists done so ? On the platform I have been sternly
a Spiritualist, not a theologian.
You and others know that through the press and on the
platform for many years past I have avoided theological
utterances, and have by voice and pen entreated heterodox
Spiritualists to do the same; and direct all their energies to
defeating modern Sadduceeism,in raising the standard of human
immortality and ghost communion.
My opposition to the Association arose when the “ principles
and purposes” were promulgated. Only a few weeks before
that date, I spoke from the platform of the Quebec Institution
meeting at the request of the Association, though I declined
to be connected with it as a member, because I had no confi¬
dence in the getters-up of the Association.
Dr. Gully persists in making the untrue assertion “ Mr. Jones
loudly proclaims his Christianity as an objection to the Asso¬
ciation.” My successful opposition was point blank against a
clause, which so far as I know, had nothing to do with
Christianity. It was against the “ only basis” clause; a clause
which gave unlimited power to a committee of the Association
to ignore past Spiritualistic phenomena, and to guide and
dogmatically fix the truth or untruth of future phenomena.
My protest aroused attention, and the clause was “ resolved”
out of the principles. I could have assailed other clauses, I
did not, as they were minor; but I had letters from vice-
presidents and council, declaring the “nonsense” and “ ab¬
surdity” of other portions of the “ principles and purposes”
that were to guide the future of the Association.
The Association has a right to exist; but its structural
errors have effectually prevented many men whose names are
household words amongst Spiritualists, from being connected
with it. Therefore the words “British National” are untrue,
misleading, and ought to be “ resolved” out.
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 11, 1874,
Dr. Gully objects to a leader, yet be has led off an eight
column attack against Howitt, Jones, Hall, Atkinson, and
Burns, men not members of the Association, men second to
none in the amount of work done to advance Spiritualism—
before he was duly authorised by an Association “ order in
council.” I consider myself a leader, not the leader. Some
twenty years ago, Howitt, Wilkinson, Coleman, and Jones
were the only Spiritualists in England bold enough to un¬
flinchingly face the scorn, the derision of the nation. Each
placed by a higher power, I believe, in a position suited to his
characteristics, fought, worked and toiled with Mr. D. D.
Home, till Spiritualism has become a power in the empire ;
we therefore were and are leaders of Spiritualists.
While Dr. Gully was piling wet sheets on his patients in
Malvern, we in London were piling facts on facts on the im¬
patient public. He gained gold, we gained abuse. The Lord
of the heavens and earth has spared the five—Home, Howitt,
Wilkinson, Coleman, and Jones to this, the twentieth year,
to fulfil their mission. We thank Him for using us as His
instruments. Our hearts beat as warmly as at first; but our
hair is whiter, our hands less steady, we are preparing for our
change; a few months longer it will continue to be onward, and
then, thank God, it will be upward.
J. Enmore Jones.
Enmore Park, South Norwood, S.E.
OFFICES FOE THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—It may interest your readers to know that several
additions were made to the guarantee fund of the British
National Association at the soiree on Thursday evening, in¬
cluding handsome contributions from Dr. Gully and from Mr.
Chas. Blackburn.
In the opinions of several of the members of the Council
and of the Offices Committee, it will be perfectly legitimate
for the Association itself to become a subscriber, of, say, £50
to the guarantee fund; because when offices are taken many
expenses which now come out of the general income will be
altogether saved.
If the Council should take this view at its meeting on
Monday next, and if in the meantime a very few more who
have not yet joined in this effort will kindly signify their in¬
tention of doing so, the Association will be in a position at
once to take the best premises it can meet with.
Those who have not assisted in the actual work connected
with the secretaryship and the correspondence of the Associa¬
tion do not know how much the present state of things
militates against its progress, and against the proper present
management of its affairs. Enwn. T. Bennett,
Secretary to the Offices Committee. ,
Betchworth, Dec. 7th.
SUICIDE APPARENTLY CAUSED BY A VISION.
Sir,—Permit me to call the attention of your numerous
readers to the following report, from the Hackney Guardian,
of the 2nd inst., about the suicide of a young woman in Clapton
Pond. It would seem from the fact of her seeing an appari¬
tion of a young man, and her apparent ignorance of Spiritualism,
she must have been terrified to such an extent as to prompt
self-destruction. If she had been acquainted with the facts
and bearings of Spiritualism, it is scarcely doubtful that, in¬
stead of destroying herself, she would have offered the spirit
means of communication, to their joint advantage.
In any case, it appears to me one of those cases which require
consideration on the part of Spiritualists.
“ On Monday afternoon, Mr. Humphreys held an inquest
at the Three Cranes Tavern, Mare-street, Hackney, touching
the death of Emma Nelson, aged 24 years, who was found
drowned in Clapton Pond, on Thursday last.
“ Mr. Richard Philips, carrying on business as a warehouse¬
man in the City, and residing at 415, Mare-street, Hackney,
deposed that deceased had been a domestic servant in his
family for the past five months. He believed that she had
neither relatives nor parents, and had come to his service from
Stockport, he having received a reference from Mrs. Farguson,
in the Sandringham-road, Dalston. For some time past he had
noticed her to be in a desponding state of mind. A month
ago she gave notice to leave, stating that she was horrified at
seeing a young man she had known some years previously standing
by her bedside of a night. On Thursday evening at six o’clock,
she left the house saying that she was going to Mrs. Thomp¬
son’s registry office, Dalston-lane, after another situation, but
she never again returned.
<• Elizabeth Kerridge, 4, Pear-tree-place, Hackney, said that
at a quarter to seven o’clock on Thursday, night, when passing
Clapton Pond she heard a voice proceeding from the water,
crying, * Save me, help me!’ Witness .looked over the railing
and said ‘ I cannot,’ but she called a young man to her assist¬
ance who was quickly followed by a police officer, who said,
* Hollo, how did you come there ?•’ to which she made no reply.
He then hastily left the spot and witness remained there for
one hour and a quarter before the body was recovered.
“ P.C. William Deaton, 97 N, the constable in question,
stated that the last witness informed him that she had heard
cries proceeding from the middle of the pond, and he at once
proceeded to the White Hart stables, for the purpose of getting
a rope, but on his return he found that a brother constable
had recovered the body, which was 24 yards from the path.
There was no way for the deceased to have got into the water
except by getting over the railings.
“The jury returned a verdict of suicide while in an unsound
state of mind.” A Constant Reader.
Hackney, December 2nd, 1874.
MBS. FEIEHold’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Permit me to occupy a brief space in The Spiritualist,
by reporting a seance which took place at our rooms on 24th
inst. Mrs. Friehold was the medium. She receives nothing
for her services, so is a non-professional medium. She is
frequently unwell; this, coupled with the fact that strangers
often expect great things at the seances, necessitates at times
her absence. On the 24th we. had about twenty persons pre¬
sent, strangers and friends, quite a mixed company. The first
spirit who communicated (by raps) was a dear young friend,
“ Bertha Bowes,” now about nineteen years of age, who passed
from earth-life nine years ago. We have communicated with
her for nearly four years, weekly, through various mediums
and in divers ways. Whenever, wherever, or through whatever
medium she speaks by these telegraphic raps, they are
always the same gentle, subdued kind of sounds. On this
particular evening, she intelligently answered several ques¬
tions, mental and otherwise; while these questions were being
answered, the medium, who is clairvoyant, saw her distinctly,
standing close by myself; she minutely described her features
and appearance, and said she was smiling, and apparently in
conversation with a beloved child of mine of about the same
age, who is in spirit life, and in whose company Bertha is
generally found when visits are made at our circle; they seem
much attached to each other, and always exceedingly happy.
Sometimes, when I have told her I could not feel her spirit-
touch, she has almost immediately entranced the medium,—
frequently her mother, who is an excellent medium,—and
thumped me on the back, asking] if I could [feel that! An
old lady was also seen and described, standing close to a
stranger present, whom he recognized as his mother. Other
spirit friends were seen more or less distinctly. An aunt of
the medium communicated by raps, which are on'all occasions
much louder than Bertha’s. She also controlled the medium,
and spoke a few words of encouragement to the friends present,
wishing us to persevere in making “ this great truth known
to all.”
A stranger next assumed control, and spoke distinctly, and
at some length, but in a sad melancholy strain; said she was
very unhappy, that her life here had not been a moral one;
her name was “ Ruth,” and she had[died at No. 5, street;
she mentioned the cause of her death, all of which we have
since ascertained to be quite correct. This poor unhappy one
begged our sympathy and our prayers, and said she would
visit us again; she assured us that nothing but a good life
here would avail us in the great beyond. What a lesson this!
Let us hope there are but few who can hear one “ speaking
from the dead,” without being “ persuaded ” to live a right¬
eous life. “ Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also
reap.”
The week before, I am happy to inform you we had Dr.
Monk at our circle, and should like to have him again. That
seance I have reported in The Medium, therefore need not
repeat it here. C. S. Hunt.
Seance Rooms, 6, Blandford-street, j
Baker-street, Nov. 80th.
THE LATE SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES AT HARYLEBONE.
Sir,—The committee have much pleasure in acknowledging
the receipt of £1 from “ D. K.,” for which they heartily thank
him, thus reducing the loss to £2 11s. 6d. We shall be pleased
to hear from any wishing to assist us in clearing off this debt.
37, Wyndham-street, Bryanston-square, W. G. White.
Dec. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
PEIYATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sib,—In glancing back at the numerous remarkable mani¬
festations we had last year, both at the residence of the medium
and at my own, my eye rests with particular pleasure and
fondness upon an evening when the manifestations were not,
as in most cases, interrupted by long wearisome pauses, but
came like a lovely garland, not even allowing an interval in
which to compare the incidents with acquired notions of
natural laws, but absorbing all reflections in continuous de¬
light. We used to call this seance “ the wandering rosebud.”
We were four, and assembled in my room, the medium, Mrs.
Thatcher, myself, and a friend, who came with a pretty little
rosebud in his coat, which attracted my notice with a touch of
envy I confess. He took his seat opposite me between the
ladies. The gas being extinguished, there came quick raps at
once. “ Communicate ?” I asked. “ No.” “ Strike the
match?” “Yes.” Instantly I obeyed, we looked round
searchingly, in vain, and considered ourselves “ sold,” when,
lo 1 the little flower was in my coat, neatly fixed in the button¬
hole, on the left side, the medium sitting on the right. “ This
is quick handiwork !” we exclaimed. Gas out again, but
raps immediately. Little flower gone, but where ? In search¬
ing, it dropped from the head of the medium. It may be time
to state that our hands were firmly joined. I put it back again
on the head of the medium, and with the same rapidity it
went finally to Mrs. Thatcher, who would not give up the little
traveller, but kept it. Then we found on a slip of paper, in
direct writing—“Such fun! Such fun! Bertie." Scarcely was
the gas out again, when the raps invited me to the match¬
box, which I had placed previously close by, but it was gone,
not to be felt on the whole table. “ This is too bad,” I said;
“ you’re not leaving some to strike a light!” Then something
dropped, and I picked up a match close before me and lit tne
gas. But where was the match-box ? About ten feet away.
It was on the carpet, close to the leg of a chair. The quick¬
ness of the rosebud was outdone by the fiery match-box. We
sat down again in proper order, and our intense mirth andhearty
laughter were soon mixed with strange raps, different to the
usual kind. “ Is there a new friend ?” I asked. “Yes.” By
the alphabet it was spelt, “ Sister of Bertie—Lily." After re¬
ceiving and welcoming our new guest with expressions of un¬
affected delight, a volley of the two different raps drowned for
a while our attempts at further questioning.
We then, after a pause, prepared for the second part. The
cabinet was a simple calico curtain with an aperture, and open
on both sides. We were, as usual, prepared to see the appa¬
rition of Bertie, and as we could not help receiving her always
with a kind of solemnity and awe, our previous humorous ex¬
citement subsided into a passive frame of mind; therefore
how to describe the effect, when suddenly there appeared two
beads, pushing each other gleefully to give us the best view !
Then, to make sure of breaking the spell of our seriousness,
they peeped out simultaneously at each side opening, playing
hide-and-seek, until the medium came out of the trance.
This most delightful seance lives vividly in our memories and
the marvellous blending together of its single features took
away the impression of the supernatural and transformed it
into charming reality. Christian Beimebs.
2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
ME. AND MRS. EVEEITT IN HULL.
Sib,—Your readers will, I have no doubt, be interested to
learn that Mr. T. Everitt and his estimable wife have been on
a visit to Hull, and during their stay here gave two very
successful seances at my house. You are familiar with the
general character of the phenomena which take place through
Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, and it is therefore unnecessary
for me to particularise. The perfumes came in cool, refreshing
wafts, the spirit lights were numerous and brilliant, and the
voices were all that could be desired. Znippy and John Watt,
however, were not the only spirits who spoke to us. At our
first sitting, on Saturday, November 28th, the voice of a near
and dear relative, who passed away some four years ago, was
heard, first in whispers, and then more distinctly. Several of
ns were addressed by name, and words of admonition and
encouragement were uttered. The spirit gave her name, and
one of the persons present clairvoyantly saw and recognised
her. Another deceased relative, of whom Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt had never heard, manifested through raps, which were
heard with sharp distinctness on the piano. The name was
spelt out correctly, and this spirit was also recognised by the
clairvoyant.
At our second seance on the following Wednesday evening,
the spirit-friend who spoke to us on Saturday came again.
His voice was much stronger (he did not use the tube), and he
was able to converse much more freely than at first. He
familiarly addressed each member of our family by name, and
was particularly solicitous with regard to the welfare of
all. One gentleman present got an excellent test from this
spirit, who addressing him by name, asked “ How is F ?”
referring to our friend’s little boy, whose name the medium
had never heard mentioned. Another and I think still more
extraordinary manifestation at this seance remains to be
told. Raps were heard on the piano, and the same name was
given as on Saturday; other and different raps were heard
first on the floor, and then on the table, and another family
name, unknown to Mr. and ,Mrs. Everitt, was given; the
clairvoyant already referred to then saw and described a
whole troupe of our spirit friends coming forward, and there¬
upon we heard a perfect volley of raps, some loud and distinct,
and others so tiny as to be scarcely audible.
The spirit Znippy afterwards favoured us with an unusual
and truly marvellous manifestation. After indulging in
a little harmless banter with a friend, Znippy prevailed
upon him to give a recitation. “Excelsior" was the piece
selected, and the spirit took it up line by line, reciting
it with far greater effect than did our friend in the flesh. The
refrain, at first given by the spirit in full voice, and close at
hand, receded from us as the piece progressed, and at the
close “ Excelsior" was heard, as it were, in the far distance.
Indeed, Znippy’s rendering of “Excelsior" produced on all
who heard it a most thrilling effect, and will never be for¬
gotten so long as memory lasts. Znippy also assisted with
great pathos and emphasis in the recital of Longfellow’s
“ Psalm of Life,” taking up each line immediately on the first
word being uttered. The spirit explained that when he heard
the first word, he saw the entire line flash from the speaker’s
brain, and then was able to recite the words simultaneously
with the friend “ on this side.”
To hear our departed friends address us with the direct
voice, and for the two other friends to intimate their presence,
and give their names by raps, was particularly gratifying,
not only to ourselves, but also to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, espe¬
cially as the identity of the communicating spirits was further
confirmed by the testimony of the seer, who saw and described,
so as to be recognised, one of Mr. and Mrs. Everitt’s spirit
guides. Out of consideration for the persons concerned, I
mention no names.
Now, here is a nut for the men of science to crack. Mrs. Eve¬
ritt, holding hand s with two friends, formed a chain in connection
with an electro-magnetic battery, and at our request the spirits
demonstrated that they had the power to arrest the current
of electro-magnetism, so far, at least, as it affected Mrs.
Everitt; for whilst a person on either side of her experienced
the current in its full force, the medium felt no sensation
whatever. The result was the same when Mrs. Everitt was
connected with the battery alone. The spirits also, at our
request, made Mrs. Everitt feel the shock in such strength as
to be almost unbearable. If any of your readers have had
a similar experience, I hope it will be made public, as this is
the first instance I have met with of a spirit being able to
make a medium insensible to an electric shock.* We were
not holding a seance at the time the experiment was made.
I enclose my card for your personal satisfaction, but for the
present I would only be known to your readers as E. D.
Hull, Dec. 5th, 1874.
Darlington Spiritual Association.—Mr. T. P. Hinde
writes:—Sometimes we have interesting and instructive debates
at our Sunday morning meetings. Three weeks agoiMr. W.
Dixon read an excellent paper on “ Woman’s Love,” which
gave rise to a lengthy discussion, extending through the fol¬
lowing Sunday morning; it was finally replied to by Mr. D.
Richmond last Sunday morning; he endeavoured, with some
success, to establish the fact that love in itself was treacherous
if not guided by wisdom. The society has added to its com¬
fort at meetings by throwing a wooden partition across to
divide the otherwise large room into one large and one small
room ; in the latter we have placed a powerful stove, so it is
now a comfortable room for seances as well as meetings. I
like Baroness Yay’s article very much.
* Battery power was recently applied to one of the materialised spirits
at a seance of the Eddy Brothers, but the record in the Religio-Philosopliica
Journal, being either of a slipshod character, or written by a person igno¬
rant of the vital points of the experiment, is valueless.—Ed.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 11, 1874,
Me. Eyeeitt in the Peoyinces.—Mr. T. Everitt writes
from Hull, November 30th,—“I am glad Dr. Gully has
answered so calmly and effectually those two or three who are
opposed to national organisation without either rhyme or
reason. All, without an exception, who have spoken about
Mr. Howitt’s letters against national organisation, say they
are illogical, and they express their surprise at the position he
has taken. I may say that all the thinking men of the move¬
ment that I have come in contact with, when they have
spoken of the National Association, are in favour of it, and
before long we may expect to be united in one common bond
for the good of our fellow-men ; it will be a spectacle' worthy
of the imitation of all religious sects, to see millions of
Spiritualists bound together without a creed and without a
pope, for the sole purpose of spreading a knowledge of the glad
tidings of man’s immortality. I believe one common platform
is the aim of all connected with the National Association, or
I would wash my hands of it, but here I find that I can work
for the good of man with all my might, without having my
private opinions interfered with. None are asked what they
believe when they join the Association. There being no
formula to subscribe to, persons of every shade of creed, no
matter how great the contrast of their views, as Spiritualists
feel the truth of the old adage that | union is strength.’
They can work with their fellow Spiritualists, in harmony and
love for the good of all. I find that Spiritualism is making
great head-way in the country. Wherever I have lectured I
have had good audiences, perhaps because the discourses are
free; hence we want more free lectures. We go to Leeds
next Saturday, and then to Liverpool, getting home about the
15th or 16th of December.”
Seal-skin Jackets.—Except for a very short part of the
year the seal lives to all intents and purposes on the open sea.
But the female, when about to bring forth, seeks the shelter of
the shore, where she suckles and watches her cubs until they
are old enough to shift for themselves. At this time, wherever
there are seals along the coast, large herds of them will be
found from a quarter to half a mile inland. As soon as a herd
is spied, the boats are manned, and the whole vessel’s crew,
armed with bludgeons and axes, starts upon a “ cutting-out
-expedition,” at the horrors of which humanity may well
shudder. The only way to effectually kill a seal with com¬
pleteness and despatch is by a heavy blow with a bludgeon, or
a deep cut with an axe, so as either to crush or sever the nasal
bones; and wheh the boats’ crews have got ashore an indis¬
criminate slaughter is commenced, the whole herd being often
butchered before a single one can reach the water’s edge. The
tumult and skurry of the attack over, the real work com¬
mences. The adult quarry is skinned with all possible haste,
and as often as not with the life still in it.. The cubs, who lie
moaning and whinnying by the side of their dams, are
knocked on the head if big enough to give their fur any value,
and if too small to be worth the skinning are left without even
the mercy of a coup de grace. Old seal hunters tell us—and
we can well believe it—that it takes a man some time to get
used to such cruel butchery, and that the half-human wailing
of the little calves as they flop and roll about the mangled
carcase of their mother is something that, until he is hardened
to the work, will make his sleep uneasy at night. To put the
thing in another shape, we may roughly say that the trim
sealskin jacket of which its fair owner is so proud, which be¬
comes her so well, and which keeps out the cold, represents
some half-dozen dams who have more or less been skinned
alive, while their little ones have been left to die in all the
slow agony of starvation.—Daily Telegraph.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
Vegetarian.—Mouldy cheese consists of uncooked mushrooms
(fungus), as a microscope will reveal; maggotty cheese consists
of living animals uncooked, so eating it is much the same as
eating uncooked earthworms. It is a mere matter of taste, which
cheese you choose. If you object to uncooked animals do not
breathe, for the dust floating in the air, which can always be
revealed by a sunbeam passing across a dark cellar, is rich in
animal life : you can, however, escape swallowing this by always
shutting your mouth, breathing through your nose, and stopping
the latter with cotton wool, to filter out the floating germs. The
nose is a natural filter, and those who habitually shut' their
mouths and breathe through their noses, are much healthier than
other people, all other conditions -being equal; they are less
liable to colds and to contagious diseases. Perhaps it is not well
to inquire too deeply into these matters,—“With increase of
knowledge there is increase of sorrow.”
A Teance Lecttjee.—On Sunday evening a lecture on
“ Ministering Spirits ” was delivered at Goswell Hall, Goswell-
road, by Mrs. Bullock, under the influence of her spirit guides;
Mr. Haxby presided. The entranced medium gave a detailed
and minute Biblical description of angel visitants or minister¬
ing spirits ; she appealed to those who placed their especial
confidence in the Bible, calling it the ‘‘Word of God, &c.,”
and asked if they indeed held the book so dear, why not seek
out its spiritual realisation, and thereby adapt themselves to
the principles recorded therein. The human family stood
in need of salvation, salvation from ignorance and blind¬
ness now so prevalent, but the voice of truth and good¬
ness was in its midst, and the medial powers of ancient days
were still in existence. Men should depend more upon their
own doings, and instead of seeking so much for wealth and
place should strive more to do good ; then would they receive
the peace of God, the rich reward for the actions performed in
earth life.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasunr.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BEENEES STEEET.
Hon. .Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
THE PROPOSED ILLUSTRATED SPIRITUAL
PERIODICAL.
UMBER of copies per ‘month for one year, at one
shilling each copy, ordered to December 9th, 1874. The word at
the beginoing of each paragraph denotes the number of copies ordered by
each subscriber
Total.
POETY.—William Oxley        40
TWENTY.—Liverpool Spiritualists (per Mr. Coates), about   20
TEN.-J. M. GULLY, M.D.: W. P. Adshead; A. Oalder; X;  40
EIGHT.—The Countess of Caithness  8
SIX.—Sir Charles Isham, Bart   6
FOUE.—J. N. T, Martheze; E. Hannah     8
THEEE.—J. C. Eno, M.A.; A. Porteous; Prince Emile de Sayn
Wittgenstein ; John Scott; J. B. Penman  18
TWO.—H. S.; E. L. S. Mosworthy;,C. Blackburn; Martin E. Smith ;
T. Blyton; G. G. Turner; A. Leighton: E. Baikie; E.Pearce; F. N.
Smith; Miss Douglas ; T. E. Partridge; H. Warburton ; W. L. Shear-
wood; W. Whitear; T. Grant; A. Tod; Lieut.,Col. A.; H. H. W.;
Prince George de Solms Braunfels; T. Lamb; H. M. Dunphy; T.
Hickling; Mrs. Popham          48
ONE.—Major M.; B. Coleman; G. N. Strawbridge; Mrs. Neville;
Fritz; J. Swinburne; W. Vernon; F. Higgins; S. T. Speer, M.D.; W.
L. Caney; W. M. Buchanan; J. Kilbraith; G. Hann; Mrs. Eudd; Miss
E, D. Ponder; Colonel L.; Miss Spiller; E. Allen; E. N. Thompson;
T. Wlison. M.D.; M. Theobald; W. Theobald; E. M. Theobald ; D. H.
Wilson ; S. Kent; Mrs. C. Anderson; J. Niven; G. Lee; J. Ivitney  30
Total     210
During the time which will elapse before it can be known to what extent
the proposed periodical will be taken up in the United,States, friends in
this country and in Europe are requested to make the total for this side of
the Atlantic as large as possible, since the magazine will not be issued unless
a sufficient number of copies is ordered beforehand to clear the expenses
William H. Harrison, 11, Ave Maria-lane,London, E.C.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year's Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8Jd. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices. ,
Depot for the sale of progressive literature.'' Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, Marshaid & Co.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Eue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
"D EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLp fonde par Allan Kardec, appears oh the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Eue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJ AMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
in
Dec. 11, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
streef, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for. Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
R. J. J.
MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
-i-TJL is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
ESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seanees every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is, each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table d'Hote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6i. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Geraid, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N„ Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Hichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maui ice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers. Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-roadl North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G,, 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Giynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charies, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.!
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymqur-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street. ’
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &e., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Majl,
• S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles,, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The’Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L, V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C msflmt, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell*
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ghamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsio
IV
THE SPIftITtJALlST.
Dec. 11, 1874
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart,, M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edhnunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Cotomittee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report,, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position,-of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object,, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture,’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?”' Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections; and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
tnediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STEEET, HOLBOBN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing- Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Beform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with _all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &e., may be had upon
application. .   
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEEB OF PBOGEESS ” LIBBAEY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EYEBY THUESDAY MOBNING. ,
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Becord of Spiritualism, ScientiBc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Bev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, B.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATOBS AND ENQUIBEBS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C. '
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London
N.W.
o n -nt m ir -nt m a
Chapter I—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm—
Caloric—Arterial 'Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—Vhe Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact-
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passi^ty and Benevolence—Concluding
Bemarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Beady by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Vear’s Gift Book. Anew
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. fid.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
