[REGIgTKSSD as A JfEWSPApri^,
joU^K^i< on' ^Cis^Nd^.
$M Sto&I Jl^tos^ap^r rmtaethd tutilj ^putiualujm in (&xml Jliilaiu.
THjE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
'des- Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24,- East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Phjlosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225," Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
. No. 213.—(VOL. IX.—No. 8.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
On Some Phenomena associated with Abnormal Conditions
' of Mind. By W. F. Barrett, F.R.SE., M.R.I.A., &c. ...
The British Association at Glasgow:—^Colonel Lane Fox
on Psycholosical Phenomena—Mr. "W. Crookes on Psy¬
chological Phenomena—Psychological Experiences of
Mr. Groom Napier—Dr. Carpenter on Psychological
Phenomena—Miss Becker's Mediumship—Psychologi¬
cal Experiments by Professor Wallace—Professor Bar¬
rett’s Beply... ...    
Dr. Slade's Mediumship  1
The Brif'sh National Association of Spiritualists 
A Sitting with Dr. Slade. By Conrad W. Cooke, Member
of the Society of Telegraph Engineers  
Correspondence:—Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena
Spiritualism and the Newspapers    ...
Answers to Correspondents 
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Weldon’s Private Choir ...  
88
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as_ soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Oh. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
East London spiritual meetings.-
LEOTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’u
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
East London spiritual meetings.
—Mr. Oogman’s usual Quarterly Tea Meeting will be
held on Sunday, October 1st, at 15. St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end.
Tea on table at five o’clock. Admission, Is.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m,; Is. Friday,/Seance at
8 p.m,; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRI I’UALIsTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Mo/al,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
str<-et, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, ls.l£d.
MRS. OLIVE, wishing to contribute her
mite to the relief of the victims of the late disturbances
in Turkey, and thinking that Spiritualists will avail themselves
of any occasion to prove tbeir sympathy with suffering
humanity, will give a Trance Seance at her residence, 15,
Ainger-terrace, Ring Henry’s-road, N.W., at 7 p.m. on Wed¬
nesday, the 27th inst. . Admission, 2s. 6d. Tickets can be
Obtained in advance at the above address.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampt n-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pet iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
kJ CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Moxze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrister- at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. THOMAS BLVTON.
Rooms:—Ti, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinal y experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on Vac first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may he of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
AH communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, B. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of hooks in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica’ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Fussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. i jd., post free.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very littlo
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism, Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. ‘
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Sp ritualism
from all parts of the world, as weil as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spirit,mli-m and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use. of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
lib, ary. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members,' admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &e., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-st, eet, W.O.,
and Post- office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Collen. Esq.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I,
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E,
List of contributors.
£ s. d.
C. B., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. (forwarded
direct to Mr. Green)    50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze       25 0 0
Charles Blackburn    20 0 O
William Tebb, Esq  10 10 0
“Nicodemus”    10 10 0
Thomas Grant Esq 1  10 10 0
Countess of Caithness   10 10 0
Alexander Calaer, Esq      6 0 0
P. R. Harrison, Esq    8 3 0
Mrs. Catherine Berry   2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.  110
Miss Ponder      110
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A  110
H. Collen, Fsq      10 0
R. Glendinning, Esq......  10 0
William H. Harrison, Esq  10 0
A. C. Pwinton      10 0
Miss Kislicgbury    0 10 6
S. T      0 10 0
From a German...    0 6 0
Per Mr. James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 15th September, 1876, viz.:—
Miss Jane Jennings   0 6 0
Mr. W. Jennison     10 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture  2 4 6
N. V   0 8 0
A Grateful One     10 0
M. A. B.      0 10 0
F. M     j   0 2 6
Mrs. Col. Boyd       0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10 0
Col. P. Greek    110
Mr. Beckett...  0 2 0
Mr. R. Wonley   1 10 0
J. F. 0 1  0 10 0
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can be forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blytoa
hon. sec.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-i«treet, Leigh, Lancashire.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Prtsident.
Alexander Calder, Esq.; 1. Hereford-square.'West Brompton, S .Wo
Vice- Presidents.
Blackburn, Char’es, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Beruard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everltt, i homas, LUUn-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,.
N.W. .
Fitz-Uerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W..
Gully, M., M.D., Or well-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitcliman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,.
Liverpool
Hollywood, Mrs , 52, Warwtck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, k. D , Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatniands, Wimbledon-connnon, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M. I)., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W-
Ashton, E P , Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, nearReigate.
Binney, F A.,22, St. Ann’s-oquare. Mauche-ter.
Brown, .lames, 169, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H , 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley. Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth,
Cook. Kenin'ale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. .1. 'I', Lynwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lillau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Lougliborough-rd, North
Brlxton, S.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Loughborough-road, North Brixton^
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Cast'edlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Ha.vle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, WestbOurne-square, W.
Hiidson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Dodtlington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E
Isltain; Sir Charles, Bart., Lsmport-hall. Northampton.
Ivtmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, .lohn, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W.. The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slrcet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pettrce, Kichavd, 8, Fas«ett-road, lialston, E.
Reirrers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, rs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N 1
Sexton, George, M A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trat'algar-road, Old Kent- t
-r >a., S E , ' ■ v ; ■'' ' 1
Stra vbrdge, Oeb. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gafdens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbrldge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A,, St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R,, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, AIorell,30, Mark-lane, E C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-pnrk, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen,R. Pomeroy, 40, Ciaverton-street. Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. .1., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, W. .
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, I). H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall.S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
 London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de’Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adeima Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
Via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The. Hon- Alexandre Aksa&of, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M- Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-ETysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veb, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
TheHon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel-Branting, New York, TJ.S.A.
J. M’. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, AtlanticCo„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. CoraL. V. TappanrNew. York,.U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Bebeea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr.. Maxmilian . Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer-
■ aity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
i Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,
flregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H.. -Terry, Esq.,, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Spes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
, T. Child, Esq. ,M D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J£. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M, F. ciavairoz, Consul-GtneralReFrance, Trieste, Austria.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 22, 1876.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.-
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocrol. Paris.
Rev. Samuei Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, (’ayuga Co , New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-lane,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A E N-hrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Herefbrd-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H.: Stratil, Modlihg; 18, BruMer-stnsse. near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlauds-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
-'The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.YV.
The Spirlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec , H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—i i.l Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hilchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice President — Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mi. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr R chard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H, J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruorion, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion. Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiav. Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browniog,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Giairvoyant, while in a irauce state, and are of the most
intensely interest!! g and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement; having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HUMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Birmey.
Third Edition Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings,' &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.   ,
MR. CHARLES' E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Pnv&te Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private-Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8. o’clock estoh evening.
Address as above.
'RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
. AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance. or any form of Mediumshir. French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical ceanccs with a first-class medium held on
Wednesday and Saturday evenings of each weekat 8 o’clock.
Admission by introduction. Fee 5s. Arrangements may
also, be made for private physical seances,. ., - -
T T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
® in the formafioh'of Private :Ciroles, :'and give ever?
information to Inquirers,-within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption^’
Cancer. Insanity, Dipsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics-.
By post, montnly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
RS. j OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatmeat by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relie-ed. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and oth-r phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously;
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk'
Farm Station).
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
■R. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham-,
stow.
lyriss LOTTIE EOWLER, the Great
-LTX. American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Eu-ope and America. How s. 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.O.
'RS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other.
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance tor reflued physical manifestations, with a firs';-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.  
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O, — —
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs ; bed and table linen and plate. 6 j
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
WANTED, near Birmingham, a Mesmeric
NURSE, to live in the house, and attend to the lady .
night a day, as may be required. Address (giving re¬
ferences and stating terms), Mrs. Porter, 107, Monument-lane,
Edgbaston, Birmingham.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
. CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z.. B.I.G.A.S.S.,and bisassi.-tant, Dr. Protoplaster,
iri their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d,: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office."' -  -
| ]P|£p tA tS mb xA
VotUJVIE KljHE. IsfuMBER ElQHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22nd, 1876.
ON SOME PHENOMENA ASSOCIATED WITH ABNORMAL
CONDITIONS OF MIND *
BY W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.E., M.R.I.A., ETO.
There are certain conditions of the mind, either tempo¬
rarily induced or habitual, which appear to be associated
with many remarkable phenomena that have hitherto re¬
ceived but partial attention from scientific men. On various
occasions during the last ten years I have had the oppor¬
tunity of observing some of these singular states, and in
the hope of eliciting further information or of stimulating
inquiry by those more competent than myself, I venture to
bring the following facts under the notice of the British
Association.
The observations first to be described belong to the class
known by the names of mesmerism, hypnotism, or induced
somnambulism, for these terms express very similar mental
states. The experiments of the late Mr. Braid have led
physiologists to recognise the existence of the fact that an
extraordinary condition of the mind can be induced in
certain susceptible or sensitive individuals by merely fixing
the attention rigidly for a few minutes or less upon any
object. Whilst staying with a friend in Westmeath, now
some years ago, I had the opportunity of frequently witness¬
ing the production of this morbid condition, and, further, of
observing some phenomena that are usually denied by
eminent physiologists of the present day.
Selecting some of the village children and placing them
in a quiet room, giving each some small object to look at
steadily, it was found that one amongst the number readily
passed into a state of reverie, resembling that dreamy con¬
dition between sleeping and waking. In this state the
subject could readily be made to believe the most extrava¬
gant statements, such as that the table was a mountain, a
chair a pony, a mark on the floor an insuperable obstacle.
As Dr. Maudsley observes in his Mental Physiology, u the
mind of the patient becomes possessed with the ideas the
operator suggests, so that his body becomes an automatic
machine set in motion by them.” In the miserable jargon
of the showmen to whom scientific men were so long
content to relegate these phenomena, this condition has
been termed the electro-biological state; and the curious |
effects produced in this state by the possession of a dominant j
idea are well-known. Several illustrations will be found in I
Dr. Carpenter’s Mental Physiology. In the Proceedings of the j
British Association for 1855, is a paper by Mr. Braid in which j
the phenomena of mesmerism are referred to what is termed a j
mono-ideo-dynamic action, the ideo-motor force of the pre¬
sent day. Many other writers might be quoted, but the j
main facts are not now denied ; in fact, this peculiar physio¬
logical state is referred to in all recent works, on the mind.
In this matter the change of opinion on the part of physio¬
logists affords a most instructive lesson. I believe I am j
correct in saying that it was at one time customary for |
scientific men to deny the truth of the statements made con- !
cerning mesmerism, and to turn the whole of the phenomena j
into ridicule (Dr. Elliotson to wit), but now this prejudice j
has disappeared, and no better instance of this change of |
front could be given than Dr. Carpenter, who, in his work on ]
Mental Physiology, remarks that so far from these phenomena ]
being absurd or incredible, “ they are simply manifestations |
of a condition to which we may frequently detect very close |
approximations within our ordinary experience, the most j
special peculiarity being the method by which the peculiar j
condition is artificially induced in susceptible subjects... . The |
longer the steady gaze is sustained, the more is the will of j
the individual withdrawn from the direction of his thoughts, j
and concentrated upon that of his eyes, so that at last it j
’     -lil—     .1 ■■.■■■■». I.. .I, ,,   I. ■ —   Ill, ■ I- — .1—' .     j
* A paper read before the Anthropological Department of the British r|
Association, at Glasgow. i
:j seems to become entirely transferred to the latter, and in the
| meantime the continued monotony is tending to produce a
JI corresponding state of mind, which, like the body of a
j j cataleptic subject, can be moulded into any position, and re-
11 mains in that position until subjected to pressure from with-
[! out. When this state is complete, the mind of the biologised
' | subject seems to remain entirely dormant until aroused to
i ] activity by some suggestion which it receives through the
| j ordinary channels of sensation, and to which it responds as
11 automatically as a ship obeys the movements of its rudder,
11 the whole course of the individual’s thought and action being
|j under external direction.”—Mental Physiology, p. 552.
The fact that one mind can thus readily be thrown into a
!! state of passive obedience to another mind is undoubtedly a
’ | fact of much importance. It is important, not only as ex-
| hibiting a state into which certain minds are liable to be
| exposed, but also as probably affording a clue to some of the
| extraordinary assertions that have been made by credible
witnesses as to the elongation of the human body, the hand-
| ling of fire and the like, to which, however, I will return in
i the sequel.
Returning to my experience at my friend’s house in West-
| meath, the girl there mesmerised passed on the second occa-
| sion into a state of deeper sleep or trance, wherein no sensa-
| tion whatever was experienced unless accompanied by pressure,
j over the eyebrows of the subject. When the pressure of the
| fingers was removed, the girl fell back in her chair utterly
| unconscious of all around, and had lost all control over her
! voluntary muscles. On reapplying the pressure, though her
] eyes remained closed, she sat up and answered questions
| readily, but the manner in which she answered them, her
I acts and expressions, were capable of wonderful diversity by
| merely altering the place on the head where the pressure
| was applied. So sudden and marked were the changes pro-
I duced by a movement of the fingers that the operation
] seemed very like playing on some musical instrument. I
I mention these facts simply to ask whether a careful and
j systematic study of them might not throw some additional
| light on the localisation of the functions of the brain. For
| extraordinary as it may appear that moderate pressure on
] the skull could produce any local irritation of the brain, yet
| it must be borne in mind that we are here dealing with the
| brain in an abnormal condition, probably a state of unstable
] equilibrium, so that a slight disturbance might produce an
I altogether disproportionate effect. Here, too, one sees a
| recognition by physiologists of some of the “ contemptible”
| assertions made by phrenologists; it is hardly ever the case
I that widely-spread popular notions are altogether right, but
it is also hardly ever the case that they are altogether wrong,
| or destitute of any foundation. On a third occasion the
subject, after passing through what has been termed the
biological and phrenological states, became at length keenly
| and wonderfully sensitive to the voice or acts of the operator,
j It was impossible for the latter to call the girl by her name,
however faintly and inaudibly to those around, without at
| once eliciting a prompt response. Even when the operator
1 left the house, and at intervals called the girl’s name, at the
| same time indicating the fact by signs to those within sight,
] she still responded, more and more faintly, it is true, as the
| distance became greater. This extraordinary and unnatural
j{ sensibility surprised me greatly, as it exceeded anything I
I had heard or read, and I regretted being unable, at the time,
ij to carry out more experiments in this direction.
In his Mental Physiology, Dr. Carpenter states that he
j has seen abundant evidence that the sensibility of a byp-
| notised subject may be exalted to an extraordinary degree in
] regard to some particular-class of impressions, this being
j due to the concentration of the whole attention upon the
II objects which excited them. Thus, he has known a youth in
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 22, 1876.
the hypnotised state find put, by the sense of smell, the owner
of a-glove which was placed in his hand, from amongst a
party of more than sixty persons, scenting at each of them
one after the other, until he came to the right individual.
In another case, the owner of a ring was unhesitatingly
found out from amongst a company of twelve, the ring
having been withdrawn from the finger before the sornnam-
bule was introduced. He has seen other cases, again, in
which the sense of temperature was extraordinarily exalted,
very slight differences, inappreciable to ordinary touch, being
at once detected.”—P. 607.
The apparent exaltation of the sense of sight has been
attributed to a quickening of the muscular sense. Thus,
Dr. Carpenter states that he has “ repeatedly seen hypnotised
patients write with the most perfect regularity when an
opaque screen was interposed between their eyes and the
paper; the lines being equi-distant and parallel, and the
words at a regular distance from each other.
“ The case of the wounded French sergeant, recently de¬
scribed by Dr. Mesnet, also illustrated this extraordinary
sensibility. In his abnornal condition he had lost all sensa¬
tion except touch, but, nevertheless, he wrote correctly, and
even when the sheets of paper were withdrawn, he dotted the
i's, and inserted commas, or made corrections just in the
places they should have been ; but this case differs in many
points from hypnotised subjects.
u Mr. Braid had one patient (in whom the sense of smell
also was remarkably exalted), “who could go back and cor¬
rect with accuracy the writing on a whole page of note
paper ; but if the paper was moved from the position it had
previously occupied on the table, all the corrections were on
the wrong points of the paper as regarded the then place of
the writing, though on the right points as regarded its pre¬
vious place.”—P. 143.
My own observations wou|d seem to show a still more
wonderful degree of exaltation of the perceptive powers, for
I noticed that if the operator tasted, smelt, or touched any¬
thing, or experienced any sudden sensation of warmth or
cold, a corresponding effect was instantly produced on the sub¬
ject, though nothing was said, nor could the subject have
seen what had taken place in the operator. To be assured of
this, I bandaged the girl’s eyes with great care, and the operator
having gone behind the girl to the other end of the room,
I watched him and the girl, and repeatedly assured myself
of this fact. If he placed his hand over the lighted lamp,
the girl instantly withdrew hers, as if in pain; if he tasted
salt or su^ar, corresponding expressions of dislike and
approval were indicated by the girl. If, however, any one
else in the room other than the operator tried the experi¬
ment, I could perceive no indications on the part of the
subject. Certainly, so far as my observations extended,
there did seem to be a vast difference between the influence
exerted on the subject by the operator, and that which
oould be exerted by anyone else. Dr. Carpenter believes,
however, that there is no foundation for the “rapport”
which is so often asserted to exist between a mesmerised
subject and the operator. On this point he remarks, “ If
the subject be ‘ possessed’ with a previous conviction that a
particular individual is destined to exert a special influence
over him, the suggestions of that individual are obviously
received with greater readiness, and are responded to with
greater certainty, than are those of any bystander. This is
the whole mystery of the relationship between the ‘biologiser’
and his ‘subject,’ a relationship which is quite con¬
formable, on the one hand, to what we see in the daily
experience of life as- to the influence acquired by certain
individuals over the course of thought and action of others ;
whilst on the other, it becomes, when still more concentrated
and established, the source of that peculiar and exclusive
rapport which the mesmerist claims to be able to establish
between the ‘subject’ and himself.”—P. 554.
For my own part, I do not think that the whole mystery
of this so-called “rapport” can be disposed of quite so
easily. Not only do the facts I have just given negative
Dr. Carpenter’s easy solution, but the following still more
remarkable experiments show, at any rate, that the question
is one deserving of more extended inquiry.
"When the subject was in the state of trance or profound
hypnotism, I noticed that not only sensations but also ideas
| | or emotions occurring in the operator appeared to be repro-
I duced in the subject without the intervention of any sign,
j or visible or audible communication. Having mesmerised
‘ | the girl myself, I took a card at random from a pack that
jj was in a drawer in another room. Glancing at the card to
(j see what it was, I placed it within a book, aud in this state
|j brought it to the girl. Giving her the closed book, I asked
I her to tell me what I had put within its leaves. She held
I the book close to the side of her head (a peculiar position
jj always resorted to for information), and said “ I see something
j inside with red spots on it.” “Count the spots,” I told her;
j she did so, and said there were five red spots. The card was
j the five of diamonds. With another card, chosen in a
j similar way, the same result occurred; and when an Irish
j bank note was substituted she said, “ Oh now I see a num-
j her of heads; so many I can’t count them.” She sometimes
j failed to guess correctly, asserting the things were dim, and
j invariably I found she could give me no information of
j what was within the book, unless I had previously known
j what it was myself. More remarkable still, I asked her to
I go in imagination to Regent-street, in London, and tell me
I what shops she saw. The girl had never been out of her
j remote Irish village, but she correctly described to me Mr.
j Ladd’s shop, of which I happened to be thinking, and
j mentioned the large clock that overhangs the entrance to
j j Beak-street.
In many other ways I convinced myself that the existence
j j of a distinct idea in my own mind gave rise to an image of
j the idea in the subject’s mind; not always a clear image, but
j one that could not fail to be recognised as a more or less
! distorted reflection of my own thought. The important
j point is that every care was taken to prevent any uncon-
j scious muscular action of the face, or otherwise giving any
j indication to the subject.
j This state of clairvoyance, or thought-reading, as it has
I i been termed, it is true has often been described, but little
I credence is, I believe, given to it.
IH I have just received the following interesting communica-
! j tion from my friend, Mr. Wilson, at Westmeath, who has
jj recorded far more observations than I myself was able to
j j make.
He writes in reference to the card experiment:
! I You are correct, as I remember several experiments of the same
i j kind. I think we proved beyond all doubt that the subject is able to
(I read the thoughts of the mesmeriser. Also that they are able to see
ijl through things which are optically to us opaque, provided that they
jj! could touch them or hold them in their hand. At any distance beyond
jjj that I don’t think we have evidence that they can see things unless the
j(i mesraeriser knows them, in which case it of course becomes thought-
|jj reading. A lady subject has often told us the time by a gold hunting
I j watch, which was put in a box after the hands were altered to any
i(j extent by the keyless arrangement, so that no one knew their position.
I remember one instance with her. There were some friends in the
j room looking on. The hands of the watch were twisted round pro-
j miscuously ; it was then put in a box and put in her hand. She at
j once said what o’clock it was. My father opened the watch to see if
j j she was right, but found to his astonishment that she was wrong. He
Iji told her so, and gave her the watch to try again. She at once said she
jj was right. He told her to look again, but she got crusty and refused to
j( look for some time. He pressed her to look once more. She
ij still said she was right, but that it was now a minute past
jj the time she first said. My father opened the watch to show
ilj the people the mistake she made, but found that she was perfectly
j j right, that he had made a mistake himself. In that instance the
i|j thoughts of the mesmeriser were against him. Another instance I
| j remember was with a counlry boy. He was mesmerised in a room
; j which we made perfectly dark. Cards were given to him at random
jj from a pack. He told fourteen correctly without a mistake, and I have
j j no doubt would have gone through the pack if we liked. Of course
! j you know that they don’t try to use the eyes to see with. They always,
jj without exception, put whatever is put in their hand to the side of
j their head, a little behind the ear, and about six inches from them,
j They always say that everything is greatly diminished. Ordinary
j book print they describe as fine lines. I should like to hear your
j I experience with Slade.—Believe me. yours very truly,
j W. E. Wilson.
j Some assert that this state extends even further; that
jj subjects in this condition are able to perceive occurrences at
j remote distances which are not known to any present, and
j yet are subsequently verified. I have had cases of this kind
j j described to me by those whom I esteem as careful and con-
: j scientious observers; but as nothing of the sort has ever
|i come under my own observation, I refrain from stating what
II I cannot vouch for myself. Even as regards the facts I have
myself witnessed, I do not pretend that they do more than
Sept. 22, 1876.
THE SElElTtFALIST.
87
justify further inquiry, as a large amount of similar evidence
must be obtained by well qualified men before these pheno¬
mena can be accepted unreservedly. All I wish to urge is,
that it is not wise to push forward a natural feeling of incre¬
dulity on this matter, as a barrier to a possible extension of
knowledge.
Dr. Carpenter himself remarks, that everyone who admits
that “there are more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamt of in our philosophy,” will be wise in maintaining “ a
reserveof possibility” as to phenomena which are not altogether
opposed to the laws of physics or physiology, but rather
transcend them. Some of the writer’s (Dr. Carpenter’s) own
experiences have led him to suspect that a power of intui¬
tively perceiving what is passing in the mind of another,
which has been designated as “ thought-reading,” may, like
certain forms of sense perception, be extraordinarily exalted
by that entire concentration of the attention, which is cha¬
racteristic of the states we have been considering. There
can be no question that this divining power is naturally pos¬
sessed in a very remarkable degree by certain individuals,
and that it may be greatly improved by cultivation. So far,
however, as we are acquainted with the conditions of its
exercise, it seems to depend upon the unconscious inter¬
pretation of indications (many of them indefinable) fur¬
nished by the expression of the countenance, by style
of conversation, and by various involuntary movements ;
that interpretation, however, going, in many instances,
far beyond what can have been learned by experience
as the meaning of such indications.”
Dr. Carpenter quotes, with some reserve, the well-known
case of Zschokke, described by Dr. Mayo and others as
affording illustration of thought-reading, but if this case be
admitted, or those that I myself have witnessed, the only
explanation seems to be that when a person is thrown into
an utterly passive condition, the nervous action that con¬
stitutes thought can be excited by a corresponding action
in an adjoining individual, and this across space and without
the intervention of the senses. Nor does this seem an
altogether incredible fact. The energy of electricity exerts
itself in two ways, by transmission along a material con¬
ductor and by influence, or induction, as it is termed, across
space. May not nerve energy, whatever be its nature, also
act by influence as well as conduction ? This, however,
would show that nerve force must be a radiant energy of
some kind, capable of throwing the nerve tissues of passive,
receptive individuals into states of activity corresponding to
the states existing in an active adjoining mind; only it
seems necessary that the subject should be reduced to
passivity by the dominance of some one mind, which thereby
appears to have some link created between itself and that of
the subject. Otherwise the phenomena of what we may
term nervous induction, or transfusion of thought, some¬
what resemble the grosser cases of electric or magnetic
induction. For many years I have held this view, and it
has been confirmed from time to time.
I must now beg the indulgence of the Section whilst 1
refer to another class of phenomena more or less associated
with the preceding, but which have received still less
recognition from men of science. I refer to the so-called
spiritualistic phenomena, and these seem to be divided into
two classes. One, in which the phenomena occur either in
darkness or subdued light, when a state of expectancy is
aroused, usually occurring only to a favoured few; and the
other, in which they occur in broad daylight, unexpectedly, and
beheld by all sorts and conditions of men, the most sceptical
as well as the most credulous. With regard to the former
class, I may instance the well-known case of Mr. Home’s
floating from one room to another, the elongation of his
body till it assumes gigantic proportions, his power of
handling living coals with impunity, and of his even
thrusting his head into a glowing grate without injury.
These facts are testified to by eminent men whose word
one cannot for a moment question. Either the narrators
saw the things they describe or they thought they saw them.
Without wishing to dogmatise and willing to accept any
correction that may be given, it seems highly probable that
the latter is the true explanation.
The following consideration may not be out of place here
in explanation of this statement. Mr. Herbert Spencer has
compared the ordinarily vivid mental impressions produced
by the perception of external things which are simultaneously
present in our consciousness with the fainter ideas pro¬
duced by reflection, memory, or imagination—to two parallel
streams of consciousness, constantly varying in their relative
breadth, as the outer or the inner world predominates.
“During states of activity we are receiving a crowd of im¬
pressions from the senses, and hence the stream of con¬
sciousness derived from the external world causes the
faint manifestations derived from within to sink into
insignificance. But when the vivid manifestations pro¬
duced by the senses are enfeebled—e.g., by closing the
eyes, stillness, &c.—the usually faint stream of conscious¬
ness becomes predominant; the heterogeneous current of
ideas grows more distinct, and almost excludes the vivid
order of impressions, and finally, on lapsing into sleep, the
manifestations of the vivid order cease to be distinguishable
as such, and those of the faint order come to be mistaken
for them.
It is highly probable that the vivid stream of conscious¬
ness produced by sensation, having been reduced by quiet¬
ness and twilight, the minds of those who testify to Mr.
Home’s feats, would readily yield themselves to any emphatic
suggestion on the part of the medium. To put this matter
to the test of experiment, however, I selected in the manner
already described, a young lad, who in the course of five
minutes was hypnotised, as Mr. Braid would say. The lad
now readily believed any assertion I made, with evident
relish going through the farce of eating and drinking because
I suggested the act, though the only materials I gave him were
a book and an empty vase. When subsequently he fully
awoke, he was under the conviction that he had had his tea,
yet could not understand how it was, as he associated the
actual books with the forced idea of bread and butter, and
the struggle of reason and memory was curious to witness.
On another occasion, when the lad was hypnotised, I placed
my shoes on the table and forcibly drew his attention to
them. I then suggested that I was standing in them, and after
he had given his assent, I said, “ now I am going to rise up
and float round the room.” So saying I raised my hand, and
directing his sight upwards, pointed out the successive stages
jn my imaginary flight. He followed the direction I indi¬
cated with intense and anxious interest, and on my slowly
depressing my hand, and asserting I was once more on the
ground, he drew a sigh of relief. On awakening he held to
the belief that I had in some indistinct way floated round the
room and pointed to the course I had taken. 1 have not the
slightest doubt that after a few trials, this extravagant idea
might have been induced in the lad with the greatest ease.
Dr. Maudsley in the new edition of his Physiology of Mind,
gives a similar explanation. This, I may add, is not correct.
Dr. Maudsley writes broadcast assertions which many in the
room can easily refute.
But what shall we say of the second class of facts, which
occur in daylight to unprejudiced persons? The usual answer
is,—clever conjuring. This may be so in many cases, but I
am firmly convinced that a dispassionate investigation will
ultimately prove that it is not so in all. Although I do not
pretend that my observations are likely to be any more
trustworthy than those of other credible witnesses who have
testified to phenomena for which there seems to be no
natural explanation whatever, yet, perhaps, I may be per¬
mitted to briefly narrate some facts that have recently come
under my own notice. In doing so, I am well aware that I
shall arouse feelings of incredulity, if not of contempt,
on the part of those who have never investigated the phe¬
nomena.
About twelve months ago I was told that the daughter of
a gentleman of good position in society, a child not quite ten
years old, was troubled with knockings, for which no cause
could be assigned. These sounds came on whenever the
child was in a passive condition, and apparently displayed
some intelligence, as they would keep time to a tune, or by
rapping at certain letters, would spell out words. As the
family were living in my neighbourhood, I made their
acquaintance, and obtained permission to examine these
mysterious knockings. I found that, in the full glare of
sunlight, when every precaution to prevent deception had been
taken, still these raps would occur in different parts of the
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
room, entirely out of reacli of the child, whose hands and |
feet I was watching closely. A dozen times have I tested the j
phenomena in every way that the ingenuity of sceptical |
friends could suggest, and the result was that I could come |
to no other conclusion but that the sounds were real objective |j-
raps, displaying intelligence, and yet certainly not produced |j
by any visible cause. I have often had the sounds occurring j(
on a small table, above and below the surface of which my j
hands were placed, and have felt the jarring of the taps on, |
that part of the table enclosed between my hands. !
I have taken sceptical friends to witness these phenomena, j
and their testimony agrees with mine. It must be borne in j
mind that the conditions of the experiment are singularly |
unfavourable either for fraud or hallucination. To avoid I
the possibility of the former I have held the hands and feet i
of the child, and still obtained the knockings; they have |
occurred on the lawn, on an umbrella, far removed from the j
possibility of deception by servants. Then, again, the im- j
pressions made on the senses by the bright sunlight, con- ]|
versation, and movement, were perpetually correcting any j
tendency to fall into a state of reverie, even had I not j
specially guarded myself against this danger. I can give j
no explanation of the occurrence, but it is a curious fact j
that these manifestations, after rising to a maximum, in the j
case of this child, gradually faded away, and now have |
entirely ceased. All that can be said concerning the child j
is that her health is stronger now than when subject to this |
curious mala-dy. Were it imposture on her part, she would I
be more likely now to produce these manifestations, as the I
interest of friends having been excited, temptations to i
deceit through desire for notoriety are stronger now than j
during the time of my investigation, when scarcely any one ;[
outside her family circle knew of the facts. I think it is my j
duty to put on record the facts I have narrated. Within the j
last month I have had the opportunity of examining another |
so-called medium, who also obtains physical action, such as j
writing on a slate at a distance from him, or under such j
circumstances that the most careful examination could not I
detect imposture. j
Is it not possible that there may be some foundation for ; I
the stories of occasional supernatural irruptions into the ]
present visible universe? I do not here refer to the great j
mysteries of religion, but to the numberless cases which j
float in families wherever you go ; many, no doubt, are sheer j
hallucination, but still a formidable residue exists that i
cannot be so explained. The manly, straightforward course j
seems to be to appoint a committee todnquire into the i
matter leisurely and systematically, and not to allow thou- I
sands of people to be deluded by the matter, if a scientific I
explanation is possible. Dr. Carpenter, it is true, has !
expressed the reason for the rejection of these phenomena I
by scientific men in the following words:—u If either our j
.own senses or the testimony of others inform us of some- j
thing that is entirely inconsistent with inherent possibility, !
we refuse to accept the information, feeling assured that a !
fallacy must lurk somewhere” (p. 631). Let us test this |
reasoning by a supposition. Suppose the sense of sight was j
given to only one individual, and he were to assert that he i
could perceive objects a mile distant, this would be in- ]
herently impossible to everyone but himself, but not neces- |
sarily untrue because of this. Again, suppose no meteorites j
had ever fallen to the earth’s surface till last year, and some j
one or more were to assert that such a fall had then oc- j
curred; this would be inherently impossible, but in time !
would be accepted by the multiplication of testimony of jt
similar falls. Now, as regards the extraordinary pheno- I
mena that I have just described, testimony to their reality is !
multiplying so rapidly that those who have never witnessed I
the phenomena will find it extremely difficult to withhold !
their belief that there is a foundation for this abundant and j
consentaneous testimony. j
Nevertheless, Dr. Carpenter assures us that “everyone |
who accepts as facts merely on the evidence of his own |
senses,, or on the testimony of others what common sense |
tells him to be much more probably the fiction of his own i
imagination, even though confirmed by the testimony of i
hundreds affected with the same epidemic delusion, must be j
regarded as the subject of a diluted insanity.” This is j
certainly the most astounding reasoning. “ Common ^
Sept. 22, 1876.
sense” is set up as the tribunal before which every fact must
pass muster before it can be accepted. It so happens that
our knowledge of molecular physics is more advanced than
mental physics, and so—thanks to Mr. Johnstone Stoney—
the radiometer has received a solution, whilst these knock¬
ings have not; but is our ignorance, the limited range of
experience that we call common sense, to be set up as a
reason for rejecting everything that transcends our experi¬
ence? Dr. Carpenter replies “certainly,” and thus closes the
door upon every new fact that common sense may reject.
But let us be careful lest in a too hasty rejection of pheno¬
mena that seem incredible and inexplicable, according to
received opinions, we are not laying ourselves open to that
same spirit of bigotry that persecuted Galileo. Surely the
motto of every man of science ought to be found in Sir
John Herschel’s words, “ The natural philosopher should
believe all things not improbable ; hope all things not im¬
possible.”
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.
The following is a full and special report of the discussion on Pro¬
fessor Barrett’s paper on Psychological Phenomena, read on Tuesday,
last week, at the Anthropological Department of the British Associa¬
tion at Glasgow, under the presidency of Mr. A. R. Wallace. More
than 1,000 members were present, and about 200 were unable to obtain
seats:—
The Chairman—Ladies and Gentlemen, I think you must all agree
with me I have hardly heard in this room a paper which, whatever you
may think of its subject matter, has been treated in a more careful, and
a more truly scientific manner, than this paper of Professor Barrett’s
—(applause)—and we need hardly wonder at this when we consider
that he is a thoroughly trained man of science ; in fact, as I understand,
he has been trained under the eye of one of the most distinguished
physicists of the present day—Professor Tyndall. As this subject is
one which will naturally excite a considerable amount of discussion,
and perhaps some feeling, I hope you will support me in my endeavours
to restrict the discussion of it within certain limited bounds. I think
it is absolutely necessary, as this paper is a record of facts solely, that
we should not allow persons to speak who know nothing whatever of
the facts. (Applause.) We shall be happy to hear any facts bearing
upon the subject, with any connected explanation, that any person may
give of those facts, but I beg no person to get up merely for the sake of
telling us that he does not believe them on a priori grounds. I shall
reserve to myself the right to make a few concluding remarks, and
perhaps give a few experiences of my own ; in the meantime I will call
upon those gentlemen who, I believe, are prepared to add something to
our knowledge on this interesting though mysterious subject.
COLONEL LANE FOX ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
Colonel Lane Fox, Guildford, read a letter which he had written to
the author of the paper, in which he stated, respecting a visit paid to a
well-known professional medium, that he did not go so far as to say
that he was convinced of the genuineness of everything he saw there,
although the writing was very puzzling to him. Nothing that he had
seen done by professional mediums convinced him in the slightest
degree, and he would discard the whole thing as legerdemain, were it
not for certain phenomena that he had witnessed in his own family
during the last four years, in connection with the use of the planchette,
which answered questions which were put by members of his family.
The seances had been confined to himself and his children, and he had
observed their surprise as, one after another, they witnessed the appear¬
ance of the writing on the paper. His eldest daughter, seventeen years
old, was evidently the one whose presence was chiefly necessary for the
success of the seances; and she disliked them, because they gave her a
headache. She was not particularly imaginative, nor excitable, and
had no particular views on the subject, beyond expressing the opinion
that it was rather a bore. She was not in the least degree in any
abnormal condition during the time of the seances. Two of his sons
appeared to have, in a less degree, the same power as his daughter, and
it was only when one or two of them held the planchette, or pencil,
that a sentence was written; and when two persons held the pencil, it
did not matter which hand was uppermost, the result was the same,
and the one was under the impression that the movement might be
made by the other. These facts appeared to him to discredit, if not to
disprove, the theory of unconscious cerebration. No one holding the
pencil knew what was written; they had even sat in such a position
with respect to the writing that it would be difficult for them to write.
He had watched the position of the hands and arms, and found that
the motion was imparted from the joint hands to the arms, and not
from the arms to the hands; but that was very difficult to determine.
The writing was often confined to a simple yes or no, in reply to a
question asked; sometimes it was a whole sentence, but never more
than a single line. Sometimes objects were drawn by the pencil, such
as a rude figure of a house that a child might draw, but the drawings
were meaningless, and had no- reference to the questions asked. All
their questions had been put as if addressing an invisible agent,
although none of them had any particular faith as to the existence of
spirits. No information of the slightest value or interest was given in
any of the replies, and no answer had been given which might not have
TfiE SPiitlTtJALIST.
89
Sept. 22, 1876.
been given by any one present, except on one occasion, when the age
of a visitor was given which they did not know; but that might have
been accidental. On several occasions the seances had ended with the
pencil writing, “No more to-night;” and after that was written the
pencil would not move any more. They had asked for raps on several
occasions, but they were never obtained. The supposed spirit wrote its
name as “ Minnie.” The whole value of these experiments consisted
in his confidence in his own children. There could be no motive with
them for deceit. All through the experiments, however, the answers
were trivial, and to suppose that such answers would be given from the
unseen world appeared to be so stupid that one might be ashamed of
investigating, were it not that important biological results might ensue
from the investigation.
MR. W. CROOKES ON PYSCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
; Mr. Crookes—When I came into this room it was not my inten¬
tion to say anything on this subject, but one or two things have come to
my mind while listening to Mr. Barrett’s very excellent paper, that I
think it would be as well to mention. The latter part of the paper I have
listened to with very great interest and approval, but one or two of his
arguments, I think, in the former part, are scarcely correct. Every¬
thing that Mr. Barrett has himself seen and investigated he believes
thoroughly, and he asks us to believe; but when he reads or is told by
other scientific men, or other persons who have investigated, of much
more wonderful things, he, I think, is rather inclined to give the
explanation that the observer has been in some mysterious manner
hypnotised, electro-biologised, or mesmerised, and, instead of seeing the
things, he “ thinks he sees them.” Now that is an argument which, if it is
carried out to its legitimate extent, would entirely stop the whole progress
of research in any branch of science. A physicist shows an experiment
before Section A. Persons might say, “ Your audience think they see
it; you have very wonderful electro-biologic or mesmeric powers ; you
throw a kind of glamour over your audience; nothing takes place ; but
you make them think they see them.” That is exactly the kind of
reasoning which I have heard and read applied to certain very extra¬
ordinary phenomena which I had been investigating for some years, and
which I am glad to see Mr. Barrett is just nibbling at the edges of.
The explanation that Mr. Barrett has given in connection with Mr.
Home, that people fancy they see things, will not stand the test of
actual experience at all. In the first place Mr. Home has always
refused to have anything to do with darkness. The most wonderful
thing of all, the levitation of Mr. Home, has not occurred once or twice
in a dim light, but it has occurred over one hundred times under all
imaginable conditions—in the open air, in broad sunshine, in a room, in
the evening, sometimes in the daytime, and on each occasion it was
witnessed by a separate number of persons ; I have only seen it once or
twice myself, and it was at night; there was a good light in the room,
and it occurred very faintly; therefore, I do not wish to give any instance
from my own experience, but the evidence in favour of it is stronger
than the evidence in favour of almost any natural phenomenon the
British Association could investigate. The phenomena that Mr. Barrett
has investigated are those of a Dr. Slade, an American so-called medium.
One must use the language of the Spiritualists, although I object to it.
I was asked to investigate when Dr. Slade first came over, and I men¬
tioned my conditions. I have never investigated except under these
conditions. It must be at my own house, and my own selection of
friends and spectators, under my own conditions, and I may do whatever
I like as regards apparatus. I have always tried, where it has been
possible, to make the physical apparatus test the things themselves, and
have not trusted more than is possible to my own senses; but when it
is necessary to trust to my own senses, I must entirely dissent from Mr.
Barrett, when he says a trained physical inquirer is no match fora pro¬
fessional conjuror. I maintain a physical inquirer is more than a match.
Gf course, if a professional conjuror says, “ You must stand at one end
of the room; I must have my own platform, with my own machinery,
and I will play some tricks in front. You and yours must not in¬
vestigate;” that is not investigating at all; that is simply seeing some
conjuring tricks. A conjuror will never allow himself to go to another
person’s house, and bring no apparatus at all, and there perform these
same things. They do not attempt to do that, and I do not believe any
of these wonderful conjurors could stand the close examination of a
physical inquiry a minute. I came here more to listen to the discussion
which it was hoped would be elicited by Mr. Barrett’s paper, than to say
anything myself, and, therefore, I should like to give place to others
who perhaps will speak on the subject.
Lord Rayleigh—I had no intention to speak on this subject. I think
we are much indebted to Professor Barrett for his courage, for it requires
some courage to come forward in this matter, and to give us the benefit
of his careful experiments. My own interest in the subject dates back
two years. I was first attracted to it by reading Mr. Crookes’ investi¬
gations. Although my opportunities have not been so good as those
enjoyed by Professor Barrett, I have seen enough to convince me that
those are wrong who wish to prevent investigation by casting ridicule on
those who may feel inclined to engage in it. (Hear, hear.) With regard
to Mr. Barrett’s remark that certain of these phenomena may be capable
of explanation by the hypothesis that those who think they witness the
phenomena are really subject to a delusion, I would not deny that there
may be just a possibility, but I feel quite confident that anyone who will
attend a seance, if any phenomena occur, will go away satisfied that that
is not the explanation.* One medium or conjuror (I won’t decide that
question) has been mentioned, Dr. Slade, with whom phenomena occur
with considerable regularity. I will venture to say anybody in this room
going to Dr. Slade, and seeing the phenomena, will go away perfectly
satisfied that hallucination has nothing to do with it. Some reference
has been made to the great value of the evidence of conjurors, and l am
inclined to think that although the acquirements of a scientific man will
help him much in investigating those matters, still the special accom-
Iplishments of a conjuror are also of great value. I was anxious to
associate myself with a conjuror in the investigation so far as that was
| possible. I went to Dr. Slade'with a professional conjuror, and the
phenomena happened with considerable perfection, while the conjutor
could not form the remotest idea as to how the effects were produced.
That is a fact which may be of some interest to those who think con-
| jurors can see through and explain all the phenomena to which witness
has been borne.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES OP MR. GROOM NAPIER.
Mr. Groom Napier—For twenty-five years I have had experience of
I Spiritualistic phenomena. When I was a child I used to keep a great
| many birds. I read in some German work that if I passed my hand
| over the birds in their cages they would fall off their perches, and I
thought I would try the experiment. I observed that it was the case,
and that when I passed my* hand from right to left over the birds they
I fell off their perches, and appeared as if dead. They remained in that
t ; condition only as long as I kept my hand over them. As soon as I
|)| removed it they jumped upon their perches as before. 'Well, I thought
| (I I had discovered something that might be helpful to myself, and in the
j(j course of my life I have applied the same system to taming horses and
| (j dogs. It was not necessary at all for me to touch them, but by merely
j(j keeping my hand over them I could tame them. I believe that to be
IU part of the great Spiritualistic law. Mr. Barrett gave us his experience
|| of reverie, and I can confirm from personal experience the power that
iff some persons have of throwing themselves by an effort of the will into
i >| a state of reverie, during which they are open to receive impressions
j)| from the unseen world, and to become acquainted with what is passing
lu in distant parts. I have often done that. Since I came to attend this
| | meeting of the British Association I fell into a state of reverie in the
j|| reception-room (laughter), and I felt that there was some one in the
j( room that I should like very much to know. I recalled certain names,
||| and I went up and addressed an individual that I knew by name,
Hi but whom I had never seen. I identified him and his habits by
|p my own spiritual consciousness, quite unconnected with any other
||| knowledge. I mention that as a fact coming within the line of
i(j observaiion followed by Mr. Barrett. It is a very curious power
|| that I have, though I do not know by what name to call it,
j and a good many others, no doubt, have it too, for I find with
reference to persons with whom I sympathise, that I know what they
; are doing when they are absent, without any communication whatever.
There was a friend of mine with whom I had great psychological
sympathy, and I knew when he wanted me to come to him. He merely
willed it. He told me he wished me to come to him, and I would come
and arrive just at the time he wanted me. That he did four or five
I times, so that there could be no doubtabout it. (A Voice: “ How far off
j was that ?”) He was three or four miles away, and he wanted me to go
I with him to a lecture on one occasion, and he did not know where I was,
j so that he could not send a messenger to me. He willed me, or wished
me to come, and I came. I had no certain knowledge of where he was,
I but I had a feeling that it was a time to go, and that I should meet him.
I There I met him. I might mention his name. He is a gentleman who
| has lectured 40 or 50 times on these phenomena and other subjects in
London—Dr. Sims, an American medical man. He is a well-known
| Spiritualist, and has some knowledge of mesmerism and other allied
subjects. He first introduced me to tbe Spiritualistic or mesmeric (I
do not exactly know what to call it) method of reading character. I
| gave him ten handwritings of persons quite unknown to him, in sealed
envelopes, so that he could not see them, even if he had been a very
clever reader of character by handwriting. The first he read exactly.
; H It was my own handwriting. He said, “ This person has an extraordi-
I (i nary sympathy with me—(laughter)—the greatest sympathy that I ever
j p had with any human being.” I was very much struck with this, and
I did not say anything to him to confirm it, but I asked him to go on.
i(! He told my age, habits, and all about me quite as correctly as my
||| mother could have done. (Laughter.) I tested him with ten other
|)i cases of a similar kind, and they were all equally correct. His method
j(| of using the envelopes was not to look at them at all. He shut his
|p eyes, and put them up against his forehead, and by the influence
or sympathy that came through the paper he was enabled to describe
III the character. (Laughter.) (A voice: “Did he describe the person?”)
PI I did not test him so much with reference to the physical characteristics,
(j except with regard to myself, when he told my height and my weight.
j|| (Laughter.) With regard to ordinary mesmerism, there is a well known
III story, I believe, well authenticated. (A voice : “ Give us facts.”) Well,
P then, I had a remarkable spiritual phenomenon some two years ago in
|p connection with this same Dr. Sims. I was very anxious to help him
m in his course of lectures in London. He had not, much experience of
\l London life, coming fresh from the United States. I was very much
|p exercised, to use a common expression, about his probable success. I
|(| went to bed after having been with him, and I saw just above my head
Hi a light on the wall. (Laughter.) This light was somewhat after the
|)| style of Rembrandt’s picture of the vision that Dr. Faustus saw.
j (Renewed laughter.) I saw a hand. This hand wrote. I cannot
Ilf exactly say the words, but it was a plain intimation of what I was to
!)| do for Dr. Sims. Next day I went, and I did all that had been inti-
|p mated to me on the wall, and the result was that Dr. Sims had a most
|p wonderfully successful course of lectures. That is one case. I had
|| another very remarkable—(confusion and uproar). A young lady with
11 whom I was friendly at one time—(a voice : “ Shut up,” and uproar,
11| during which Mr. Napier resumed his seat).
|p Rev. Dr, Thompson—I have for the last 35 years been waiting for a
||l good scientific demonstration on this subject, ever since I began to
| j study psychology, mental philosophy, and other kindred sciences. In
Ip the first place let me say I am open to conviction. As a proof of that
|p I have gone to these seances, and have offered myself as a subject for
|)i the purpose of being manipulated upon. I have been an anxious
90
Sept. 22, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
student of what is called mental or psychological philosophy, and this j i
subject has to deal most with that science. It is not a subject like some ijj
of the sciences that are brought forward. !||
The President—Please do not give us generalisations; give] us some Ij}
fact or statement. . . i • \\\
A Voice—Give us facts. j|i
Rev. Dr. Thompson—The fact I have to state is a most important U i
one. Science, to be rightly defined, ought to be certainty of knowledge. ]|j
We want to obtain from this or that gentleman some certainty. Now, ]) ]
in reading over and hearing what has been read or written, and looking \l \
at my own observations in life, and my attendance at lectures, I have in
never yet found that there has been among my own circle of friends and j| j
acquaintances a single individual who was convinced of the truth of j| |
the phenomena which have been produced, and have been said to be i)i
real. ; 'll
The President—I must stop you if you goon in that way. I have If
told you we cannot have mere opinions and statements of disbelief, j) j
We must have facts, and if you cannot give us any, I shall rule that you j j
must sit down. \) \
Rev. Dr. Thompson—lam a fact. (Laughter.) Why should those j| j
gentlemen who hold opinions on the opposite side be afraid to have their jj j
opinions overhauled ? j
The President—We want facts, not opinions. jj j
Rev. Dr. Thompson—If these things that have been adduced are not j( j
opinions, what are they ? (A Voice: “ Facts.”) I am delighted to hear ij j
it, and 1 am going to take a few of them to pieces. (A Voice: “ It is jj j
not possible.”) There is a gentleman who prophesies. He has got in jj
him the spirit of anticipation largely developed. (Laughter.) Will the jj 1
President kindly keep order for me ? I am the first to take what may I j j
be called the opposite view with regard to these facts, by giving counter jj j
facts, and assailing these facts upon their weak points. It is evidently j j j
the desire of those who are the admirers of the system which has been jj I
recommended more or less by all the speakers, with a few able excep- jj j
tions, such as the learned Mr. Crookes gave us when he took one or two j j
points to pieces, to present only one view of the case. I now stand upon j I
the position of giving facts, and these facts are, first, in all my experi- j j
ence I and my friends have never found a fact to be substantiated, _ j j
proved, or true, or certain knowledge of science. (Laughter.) That is j j
the first thing. I have studied in every university in Scotland— !
(laughter)—and at one abroad. I have been throughout the whole of jj
Europe, and have had opportunities of studying those facts and those j i
seances ; I have studied them for thirty-five years, and have offered j j
myself as a subject for investigation—(laughter)—and they could not jjj
produce any of their phenomena with me. Now that is one fact, jjj
(Laughter.) Perhaps it was a fact that that gentleman had his weight jjl
told by the spirit with which he was familiar. Let me refer to the j j!
arguments that have been adduced, seriatim. I will begin with the gen- j j j
tleman who last told you that he had a power to sympathise with parties jj j
whom he knew, that he knew what they felt, and so on; in other words, j j j
that they did not require the use of telegraphic wires because they could j j 1
ascertain one another’s ideas. He stated as a proof that he went to a ijj
meeting, or was anxious to go, that he thought of a gentleman whom he jjj
did not know, and going to the meeting to his surprise he found the jjj
gentleman there. ijj
The President—Allow me to say a word. I think in order to limit jj i
this discussion within a reasonable time it ought to be made a rule that, j j j
the speakers should reply to the paper, and not to the accidental remarks j j j
of other speakers. If they do so we shall have other gentlemen reply- j j j
ing to them, and others to them, till we get miles away from the subject j j j
with which we commenced. I therefore beg, as chairman of this meet- j j
ing, to rule, that we will have no answers by one speaker to another j j
unless the point refers directly to a matter brought forward by the | j
reader of the paper. (Hear, hear.) j j
Rev. Dr. Thompson—I am glad I took the precautionof putting down jjj
a few notes with regard to the gentleman’s paper. I was taking the jjj
backward process, and beginning with the last first. Now I will re- j j
verse my process, and confine my attention to the gentleman who i j
read the able paper. In the first place he spoke of these things as being jjj
proved. Now science demands certainty and demonstration, and if jjj
it be certain and demonstrable, why not bring it to the halls of this j|
University and devote the whole of this great room to the proof of it? jjj
Then I will believe it. If it can be done, as one speaker said, i j
amongst a few friends, why not bring it before the whole community? jji
Why not demonstrate the truth of the science before this great as- ijj
sembly? Why confine it to a few friends? This matter seems to be jjj
founded upon seances, and upon the experiences of a few individuals, jji
in rooms, some of them dark, others light, but we have not been jjj
told what sort of light it was, whether gas or candle-light, or any ijj
other light. They do not come to the test of trying questions like these j j
upon an open platform, and before hundreds and thousands of men. ijj
Let these gentlemen tell us when they will come and do that, and I ill.
will be one to come amongst them. The fact is, this thing wants i j
the capabiliiy of being publicly tested. (“No, no,” and confusion.) jlj
It cannot be presented properly to the public. (General shuffling of i j j
feet.) I am glad you approve of my sentiments. (Much laughter.) jj i
The President— This speaker has now occupied ten minutes; if you j j j
wish to have ten minutes or half an hour longer of such conversation j j j
I am agreeable, but the meeting must decide. (General cries of ‘ ‘ No j j j
more.’) Ip
The President—Then I beg to say that this gentleman must sit jj j
down. Ip
Rev. Dr. .Thompson—You won’t hear my case because it is too j 1
strong. jjj
Mr. Conrad Cooke—I cannot add anything to the paper, except jjj
simply to give my evidence as having been at one of the very meetings j( j
that have been referred to with Dr. Slade. (Dr. Carpenter made a private j j j
communication to the speaker.) Dr. Carpenter reminds me that Dr. Ij j
Slade is now only on his trial, and, therefore, it would not be fair to
bring in any of his manifestations or tricks, whichever you like to call
them, as proofs on this subject; but with regard to those who see such
immense difficulty in believing the psychological facts, or whatever they
may be, I would ask, is it not more difficult to disbelieve men whom you
have known fqr years, whom you know to be of the highest honour and
integrity, men who have the highest reputation for scientific research ?
This subject is attracting the attention of a very large number of per¬
sons who look to scientific men either to prove or to refute these facts
and I think no harm could be done, and probably a great deal of good
might be accomplished, if the matter were referred to scientific men to
investigate, and there can be no better body of persons to make the in¬
vestigation than a committee appointed by such an Association as this.
If the British Association could see that the matter is at all worth
looking at, that it is not beneath their dignity to investigate it, I think
it would be well for them to take it up. Certainly no harm could be
done by the Association appointing a committee of scientific men, men
who are of all opinions, pro and con, to make a proper investigation and
bring forward a report.
DR. CARPENTER ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
Dr. Carpenter—I will endeavour to confine myself as strictly as
possible to facts. I think the interpretation Mr. Barrett has placed
upon some detached passages he has quoted from my writings is hardly
justified by the context. For instance, when I say of phenomena, that
it is “impossible to believe,” I do not mean at all to assert that we know
everything; in fact, I repeatedly use the expression, “there are more
things in heaven and earth than our philosophy recognises,” and I do not
think anyone has a right to say I have ever been unwilling to receive
new evidence on any scientific fact. I have always expressed myself
with regard to there being a “ reserve of possibility,”—an expression I
have used over and over again. The strong remarks I have felt called
upon to make in certain cases have been simply on the credence given
upon what I consider very inadequate evidence indeed, and that I have
had a number of very remarkable instances, into which, however, I will
not go. I will make just my contribution to facts. I quite hold that
there is in some persons a very curious power of what is commonly
called “ thought reading.” The way in which that power is exercised I
do not pretend yet to have adequately investigated, but I think we have
a clue to it in this. It is quite certain that there are individuals who by
long practice and experience, based upon a certain peculiar faculty of
their own, which we all have more or less, but which is predominant in
some individuals, have the power of judging, by certain minute indica¬
tions which they could not explain, of what is passing in the minds
of other persons. I will give a remarkable instance of this. I believe
it is one of the special gifts of a detective policeman. I believe the
detective policeman, partly by practice and partly by original gift, has a
greater power of what is called “seeing through a millstone” than other
people. I believe a first-class detective is almost sure to find out
whether an accused person is guilty or not; there are certain little
indications which are given unconsciously, which they could not interpret
consciously, and yet which lead them to a conviction. A few years ago
a bank manager in Leeds lost a key which opened all the safes of the
bank. He was in great distress about this. A first-class detective was
sent for from London. This man had every person connected with the
bank before him, and he came to the manager, after having examined
everyone, and said, “Make yourself perfectly easy about this; nobody
in the bank knows anything about it. If you will only be assured this
is the case, and get a good sleep to-night, the probability is, to-morrow
morning you will remember where you put this key.” And so it turned
out. And in the case of Constance Kent, where the evidence was inade¬
quate, a first-class detective said he was perfectly sure that she was guilty,
and she confessed it in a few years. How is this assurance obtained ? I
believe it is by certain little unconscious revelations, so to speak, which
are made intone, gesture, expression of face, and so on; and that these are
interpreted intuitively by the man who has been practising such things
without his being able himself to say why and how he interprets them.
I received, a few months ago, a paper from America, called “ Thought¬
reading versus muscle-readmg,” written by a very able physiologist, who
had interpreted these phenomena in precisely the same manner. Thera
is a game I dare say many of you have played which is, to my mind,
excessively significant. It is that of putting a person out of the room,
and hiding away some object. A person comes into the room; two
persons, one on each side, walk him round the room, with a finger in
each of his hands, and the person so walking will very soon come to find
where the object is hidden. A friend of mine at Leeds experimented a
good deal upon this, and he found that it was distinctly owing to the
slight pressure made by one or the other, unconsciously, upon the
shoulder, like the slightest twitch of the rein of a horse, directly to the
finger at one side or the other. He varied this experiment again and
again, tried it on himself and on other persons, and misled them by
intentionally varying slightly the pressure. Now we none of us know
the degree to which we are constantly indicating, by these little involun¬
tary signs, that which is passing in our own minds. I have continually
been told myself things that I have shown in my countenance. Those
who are the best subjects for the thought-readers are those who are
demonstrative in some way or other, whether in facial expression or in
any other way, and I believe that will be a clue to a great deal of what is
commonly called “ thought-reading.” I may mention one case in which
I am quite certain the clue was given by myself by some action I could
not discover. It was in the case of Mr. Foster, a celebrated American
medium, when I asked the date of the death of a valued friend of my
early life, Dr. John Read. The year was correctly given. I was told
to take the pencil, and go through the alphabet, and I went on as
rythmically as- I possibly could. He stopped me at “j,” and
then at “ u.” It was clear it was either June or July. I went
on again as far as “ 1, m, n.” He seemed hesitating, and we
91
Sept. 22, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
tried back two or three times, “ 1, m, n ; ” at last he said, “ I cannot. •! j
tell; it is either June or July, I am not sure which, but it is one of j j
those two.” Of course, that naturally followed, but he could not tell, j)
simply for the reason that I could not tell. He had with marvellous ap- I)
prehensiveness seen some little sign, some wink of my eye .or some little j)
play of my face, that indicated to him what I expected. I tested that |)
on another occasion, and while the medium was spelling out a word j (
most regularly—the name of an aunt of Mrs. Carpenter’s, who had died |}
not long before—I had a music book suddenly put up, so that he could j j
not see either the alphabet or the tip of my pencil, and he stopped l(
directly. Those are the grounds on which I believe that a large part |)
of what is called thought-reading to be due to this, that it comes through f
an intensification, in certain individuals, of the power of discerning |
through our corporeal organism that which is passing in our own minds, ij
I think it is more likely that that is the case than that there is any j)
direct communication between one nervous system and another, although j j
I would not by any means deny that. I merely say that one seems to i j
me the more probable explanation than the other. Then, with regard j ]
to another great series of phenomena, I must simply say one has to make |
a very large allowance for the extraordinary tendency to deception that !
none but medical men know, and especially, I am sorry to say, among j ]
women. (Laughter.) Medical men are perfectly familiar with the j j
fact that there is this curious tendency to deceive for the mere enjoy- I (
ment of deceiving. (Renewed laughter.) There have been no end of i
stories of that kind. Every medical practitioner is perfectly familiar I ]
with young ladies who manufacture illnesses, and continue ill days, j
weeks, months, or years, simply because they like to be the objects of j ■
sympathy. (Laughter.) That is a fact on which the large experience j'
of the medical profession has a right to be heard. Then again, there i
is a tendency in the professionals who are gaining their living to
impose upon others, and we must always guard against this. I do not j
at all say that this is everything, but I simply say that this is one i
thing. And with regard to the case mentioned just now, I would j
venture to say exactly what my position is, because it will be made the I
subject of public comment, and I think it will show that we are not at
all unwilling to investigate, if only the things are presented to us in a
way which will enable us to investigate. (Applause.) I have been |
asked over and over again to take part in dark seances, and things of j
that kind. I was asked to be one of the committee to investigate the j
performance of the Davenport Brothers, and I said, “ If we are simply j
to be shut in a dark room, and to take each other’s hands, and exclude j
the use of those instruments which scientific men use for the purposes of
scientific investigation, I must decline to take part in an investigation
of that kind.” A gentleman with whom I have had some correspond¬
ence, some months ago wrote to me and told me Dr. Slade was come to
London, and that these manifestations were given in open daylight,
that he challenged investigation, and that the presence of sceptics did
not prevent them. Now, the great difficulty in my investigations has
been that I have been told over and over again, “ Oh, your atmosphere
of incredulity prevents these manifestations—(laughter)—and therefore
nothing comes.” It is unfortunate that this P atmosphere of in¬
credulity ” does seem to prevail when a philosophic sceptic like myself
—one who does not deny the possibility of there being a great many
things that our philosophy does not explain—seeks to pursue his in¬
quiries. However, I went to Dr. Slade, and I do not hesitate to say
that I saw things that very much astonished me; and I will further
say, I told Dr. Slade at the end of our meeting, “ If you will come to
my house, I shall be extremely glad to go into this matter further.”
(Hear, hear.) As I wrote to the gentleman who brought me into com¬
munication with Dr. Slade, I will spare neither time nor money to get
to the bottom of this, and that, I think, will show you I, for one, am by
no means indisposed to try to get to the bottom of it. If Dr. Slade can
do in my house, with my chairs, with my tables, with my slates, with¬
out any previous preparation, what he showed to me in his own room,
I will then honestly say this is a case for thorough investigation. (Hear,
hear.) But if Dr. Slade comes to me and nothing happens; if the chairs
do not jump up again; if the table does not jump up under my hands;
and if the writing is not made upon my own slates which I saw upon
his, why then I think we may fairly say that there is no place for
scientific investigation. (Applause.)
MISS BECKER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Miss Becker—I think the section is to be congratulated on having a
paper brought before it such as has been read on this occasion. Whether
these things are real or not, they occupy such large attention that they
ought to be investigated in a scientific spirit, and I hope that a com¬
mittee of this Association will be appointed for the purpose. I rise to
bear testimony to a few facts in a purely scientific spirit, because—I
hope the President will forgive me—I am an unbeliever in spiritual
agency—at least in the agency of disembodied spirits. When I was a
young child I had a companion who was in a peculiar nervous condition.
She would lie down on a sofa, and go into a kind of trance, and while in
that state she would instantly reply to any questions which were put to
ner. When she awakened out of this condition she had not the
slightest recollection of any question having been put to her, and
scolded us for playing on her nerves. She was in the house of an emi¬
nent surgeon in Manchester, sleeping with his daughter, and while there,
violent knockings and rappings were heard along the room. Spirit¬
ualism was not known then, and the whole family were very much
puzzled to account for these knockings. At last they began to call the
knocking “ Nebuchadnezzar,” and when they called “ Nebuchadnezzar ”
he would answer by a knock. This continued for some months, and
when the girl left, the knockings ceased to visit the house. No explana¬
tion was ever given of them. The surgeon would not be convinced it
was not the girl, until he held both her hands and discovered that there
was something in the case beyond hallucination or imposture. I have
myself occasionally used the planchette, and the moment I put my hands
j on it, the thing moved itself without my influence. On one occasion the
| planchette began to write, and when I read what was written, it was the
j name of a person who was not the least in my thoughts. I did not
j know what had been written until I had taken up the paper and read it.
Whenever I take up the planchette it instantly goes on in that way.
| It would be impossible to convey to any one who looked at it the im«
! pression that I was not moving it myself, and if any one else had their
] hands on it I could not disabuse my own mind of the impression that
i they were writing. But I cannot admit the conclusion that the spirit of
a dead person did me the honour of haunting my planchette, and I can
only say, here is something which to my mind is undoubtedly real, and
of which I have no intelligible explanation. Now I think we are
entitled to ask about some things, what they lead to. I do not think
that anything of this kind can be put down by ridicule. But when I
read in the Spiritualistic Medium that a spirit poured out tea at a party,
took two cups of tea, and eat her two rounds of buttered toast—
(laughter)—I must say such experiences are very difficult to investigate,
even by a committee of the British Association. (Laughter.) But last
week’s Medium contained something more surprising still. It told of a
Christmas party, in which one of the spirits called for a bottle of gin
j and hot water. (Laughter.) If we are seriously called upon to believe
i j that disembodied spirits visit this earth, I think we may say that we
'! do not need spirits to come from the other world to teach men to mix
I spirits and water. (Laughter.) The subject is one that should not be
| treated with ridicule. It is a grave and serious one, especially if it
should lead to a very morbid and unhealthy development of mind; still,
I the way to check this on the part of those who should be the leaders of
j scientific thought, is carefully and seriously to encourage such research
| as seems likely to do good, and to discourage idle and unscientific inves-
| tigations, which only do mischief to those who conduct them.
| (Applause.)
j Mr. Park Harrison—As personal experiences have been asked, I may
| mention that there have been two occasions in which I have seen abnormal
j appearances, both happening when my brain was rather over-wrought
| with hard work, and was in an abnormal state, especially as I have a.
! tendency to brain fever. There is a great amount of heat in the case of the
• brain under these circumstances, and a thermometer placed upon the
I head will show greater heat in some lobes than in others. Dr. Carpenter
has mentioned one or two explanations which might be given of Dr.
Slade’s experiments, and there is the third explanation, viz., that .they
may possibly be due to sleight of hand. There is one case which I think
is very pertinent to the present discussion; it is the experience of Dr.
Owen, of Philadelphia. It was this—I have taken it from the Atlantia
Monthly for January, 1875—-
The Chairman—We really must not have quotations from newspapers
| in America of which we know nothing.
| Mr. Harrison—This is an account Mr. Owen gave himself.
| The Chairman—We must have personal knowledge.
Mr. Harrison—This is the personal knowledge of Mr. Owen. We
! have had a great many speakers on the other side, and very few on my
i side—kindly bear with me a short time. (Cries of “ Question.”) Forty
I memorable sittings were held, and every precaution was taken, but
i; " instead of a failure, all the phenomena came out in greater perfection
j than before. (Interruption.) After that was done, and after they had
|| been forty times and for nearly a year going on, unable to detect any
II deception, it was found out that a Mrs. White had been employed for
11 five dollars a night to act the part of Katie King. (Confusion, cheers,
11 and counter cheers.)
I The Chairman—The history concludes in this way. Soon after Mrs.
j White confessed that she had been acting the part of Katie King for a
| fee of five dollars a night, I happen to know, from subsequent informa-
it tion, that this confession was proved to be false, and it was proved that
] she was forty miles away at the time she said she had been acting the
| part of Katie King. (Applause.) So much for newspaper information,
i j Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine: I rise without any circumlocution, under cir-
| cumstances of very great difficulty. I thank the excellent Dr. Carpenter
(i for having brought this discussion within its proper limits. I have
i! studied this and cognate subjects for thirty-five years. I come from
[} Ireland, which is invaded with a great many manifestations of a variety
s] of sorts—among the rest, some religious ones ; and as those remain out
| of the question, I shall only say I have studied these phenomena in
I seasons of intense religious excitement, and I know a good deal about
j them. In any question of fact the matter of the first importance is the
i credibility of the witnesses, and I am here to impeach the credibility of
| Professor Barrett’s witnesses. It happens by a rather unfortunate coin-
i cidence that I know most of them, and amongst them is a connection of
j my own. (Laughter.) It gives me great pain to tell you I believe he
i is a thoroughly unreliable witness. (Laughter.) I do not for one moment
! dispute his honesty of intention, but I say he is not fit to give evidence
| i on this occasion. A question of evidence requires examination. A
I man should be thoroughly unprejudiced. lam afraid my friend does
I not come up to that standard. (Laughter.) Some years ago I was a
I witness of some of these performances. I knew one of the media, and
ji it so happens everyone of these persons referred to have been females.
H (Laughter.) I say that these young girls—Professor Barrett’s young
jj girls—my friend’s young girls—and these other young girls—I say they
| i are not proper persons on whom to base great superstructures such as
I these. (Laughter and hisses.) May I mention another thing ? Did
anyone ever investigate hysteria—I speak to fathers and mothers,
brothers and sisters. (Laughter.) I may say, as another fact, I am the
parent of fourteen children—(roars of laughter)—and I say it is a most
dangerous thing to bring these mesmeric experiences into a region like
that, and I. had to guard with great jealousy and great care my own
daughters, or they would have been media. I say that these facts are
not reliable. I say a person fit to examine may very well begin with
Christianity. Anyone that rejects the great facts of Bible history—
I (interruptions, and cries of “ Order”).
0 TS-E •SPIRITUALIST;; Sept-. 22, 1876.
The Chairman—I cannot allow theology to be introduced into this iu
discussion. (Applause.) 1,|]
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine—As the Association is coming to Dublin in ||{
1878, they will be able to investigate the facts there, and to see the |'(|
' amount of their credibility. Now another fact. This Association was I Vi
' in Belfast in 1856, and we had a seance there. One lady proposed to }?!
'give a sSancei which was given in semi-darkness. m
The Chairman—Were you present?
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine—I give it on the evidence of—
The Chairman—We cannot have it. (Applause.)
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine—I will give you the name of the gentleman. , jvi
The Chairman—That won’t prove that he is trustworthy. You have j)i
accused one of your own friends of being untrustworthy; how do we know j (i
that these people are trustworthy ? (Applause.) j(|
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine—I will give you another fact. (Laughter.) An !)!
American Professor came to our town, and did all these things. |(j
The Chairman—The name ?
' Rev...Dr. Mcllwaine—Really I forget. (Laughter.) > j|l
The Chairman—You must not allude to people without giving the name, m
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine—The influence he exercised upon some of my |)|
family was very deleterious. I met him, accompanied by Dr. Red- l)i
fern, and the exposure of the man’s ignorance and charlatanism was Kj
such that he vanished very rapidly. That is a fact. I have done in
everything I could within the region of possibility to investigate |)j
.honestly and fairly, and I come to this conclusion, that a great deal is (j
to be attributed—first, to feminine excitability ; next,to credulity, and, \)\
. thirdly, and not the least, to imposture. (Applause.)
; Professor Barrett—I rise to make a personal explanation. I have ju
been extremely anxious to avoid anything like personal feeling in the |jj
paper I read, and I am exceedingly sorry my good friend, Dr. Mcll-
tVaine, has introduced any personal questions at all. Let me just say j<!
the relative of Dr. Mcllwaine, to whom be has alluded, is not the jVi
person to whom I alluded in my paper. (Applause.) It so happens m
that that person is an Englishman, of not the remotest connection with j (j
Dr. Mcllwaine, and whose name Dr. Mcllwaine does not even know. As i|]
regards the mesmeric phenomena, it is true that they occurred in the j) j
house of a brother-in-law of his at Westmeath ; but the reason for Dr. m
Mcllwaine’s rejection of these phenomena is not because he has dis- jij
proved them, but because he has had no communication with that |(|
family ou account of their having different religious opinions to him- Ki
self.' But Dr. Mcllwaine, I am quite sure, cannot impeach their |)j
honesty, and moreover 1 did not trust his testimony. It was the testi- m
mony of my own eyes, and those of my own friends—not in his house jsi
only, but in my own house—not in Ireland only, but in London—not j)l
with girls, but with young lads taken at random from a British school jfj
in London. Moreover, the facts of mesmerism I have mentioned, I j\j
am quite sure Dr. Carpenter does not really deny, and therefore I think !)j
that reference to personal matters was quite needless. (Applause.)
Mr. Walter Weldon—I am not going to occupy the attention of this j (j
meeting more than half a minute, but it occurred to me I might j):
perhaps usefully contribute to the discussion of this subject one little m
occurrence, within my own experience, which seems to me to have a jsj
pertinent bearing upon the theory entertained even by Professor »
Barrett. I am sorry to hear that when persons believe that they see jo
Mr. Home, for example, float to the ceiling, Mr. Home really does not hi
float to the ceiling, but he exercises some sort of influence over the m
minds of the observers, which leads them to suppose that they see him j (j
float when ihey do not. When I first began to investigate in my own j)!
family the phenomena of so-called Spiritualism, my wife and I began m
by sitting to a small table. After a time it began to move, but for m
reasons I had then I became desh’ous that a large oak dining-room j)j
table, 3jcwt., should be got to move, if possible. We sat to it some j)i
time, but we never got it to move; and as I learned that there lived in the i(j
East-end of London a powerful physical medium, I asked him to come |M
tmd sit at my house. He came one Saturday, and sat down to the end l/j
of this heavy oblong dining table. He placed his fingers very loosely }|]
upon it, and began to sing a hymn. My wife and I believed that the i)i
table beat time to the music, and beat time to it very distinctly and j/j
very heavily. The question is whether that was a delusion. What I i\j
want to say with respect to that point is, the next morning, when the nj
housemaid came to call my wife, the first thing she said was, “ Oh ! if jn
you please, mum, the spirits made such holes in the dining-room carpet Kj
last night.” We found fully a dozen large holes in the carpet, and j)j
below these holes the wood of the floor was very severely bruised. We •cj
preserved the carpet for some years, and I think it would be difficult jsj
to make out that we were deluded in that case. I will add one other j)|
thing. Colonel Fox said that with him. the planchette rarely or never (j
moves. Some years ago my friend William Howitt told me of the jjj
planchette, and urged me to go home and try if the planchette would S(j
not move under my fingers. I sat with that planchette at a table to Uj
which I was not accustomed to sit, for twenty minutes and half an hour Kj
a day for a fortnight, and the planchette never moved. At the end L
of the fortnight I was going to return the planchette to Mr. Howitt, (
who had lent it to me, when I remembered that in my study there was K
a book he had lent me, and which he was desirous I should return. I j)
went into my study, and, while searching for the book on my shelves, j(
I put the planchette down on a desk at which I had been in the habit
of writing some fifteen years. MhenT found the book, and put it in j)
my pocket, I put my hand upon the planchette to carry it away.again, \l
and I found it almost impossible to move my hand from the plan- jS
chette ; it was as it were glued to it, and v'as in very violent motion, j)
I found afterwards, whenever I placed the planchette upon the desk, i<
it would write, but when I placed it on the table at which I had not j)
been in the habit of sitting it made no movements. r j)
Mr. Hyde Clarke—I trust that I misunderstood the meaning of the jj
words which you have applied to several of the speakers. You said \)
you must have facts and not statements of disbelief , -   H
The Chairman—Merely,
Mr. Hyde Clarke—Such I think is not the issue at the present
moment. We have had in the usual course statements brought before
us by the author of this paper, and I think it is for us to canvass
those statements of facts and the mode in which they are given, and
not for us to bring forward facts either in their support or otherwise,
or to be debarred from the means of canvassing that evidence. To my
mind no new fact has presented itself in the paper. No new circum¬
stances have brought the issue before us in another shape from the way
it has been chronicled-hitherto in the history of • this department of
investigation. It is the old story that we have had over and over again,
I may say for 100 years, certainly within the memory of those
who are living. We have had, it is true, the evidence of men
of as high standing as yourselves, but it does not place the matter
in a better position than at a former period when we had the
same phenomena pi'esented to us, and w7e had the testimony
of a man so able, so honest, as Dr. Elliotson. Neither this nor any
other question of science is to be determined by authority; it is one of
which the issue is that we should have the phenomena presented to us
in such a way that all men of sense should be able to produce them
for themselves. This is identically the same question as that of
biogenesis, that subject which has occupied the attention and the dis¬
cussion of the scientific world, and which should be treated in the same
way. To my mind it appears as if Professor Barrett did not present
this case so clearly, or so free from bias as we could have desired.
(Applause). The way in which he referred to the testimony of Dr.
Carpenter, has been well met by Dr. Carpenter himself. If I were
to answer the challenge of the President to bring forward facts, I could
bring forward many like those mentioned by Dr. Carpenter, having been
engaged in the same course of investigation of unconscious cerebration,
and having as chairman of the Psychological Committee of the Anthropo¬
logical Institute, been called upon to direct my attention to those
ma tters. And there I join issue with Professor Barrett. As I under¬
stood him a great change of opinion has taken place among medical
men, and he particularly referred to Dr. Carpenter. So far as we have
it on record, nobody for a hundred years has doubted that these
phenomena of mesmerism have been produced, but.the question re¬
mains, how are they produced ? And the issue does not lie with us to
make an investigation. There ie no wish on the part of scientific men
to prevent investigation, but there is a disinclination to take the labour
of investigation on themselves, after this matter has remained so long
before the public, and certainly there can be no man of science who
would hot be interested by the fact that yourself, sir, and your friends
take a deep interest in this matter ; those names are sufficient to give
weight to any cause, and I put it to this meeting whether men of
science are to be regarded simply as prejudiced because they will not
accept the expressions of their friends; whether rather they would not
be prejudiced to listen to and adopt the opinions of you and your
friends, rather than to oppose them. It is not by the number of names
that a cause of this kind will be decided, it must be by the result of
facts ; therefore, as on one side we do not seek to do more than make a
simple protest with regard to the attempt that has been made to trans¬
fer the burden from your shoulders to those of the body of your
colleagues at large, so on the other hand we still await with anxiety
the practical result from the course of investigation which has been
carried on during such a long period, and which is now in such able
and worthy hands.
Dr. Heaton (of Leeds)—As a medical man I think it would be un¬
fortunate if this discussion led to experiments, especially upon girls. As
to the result of spiritual performances, I.know in my own experience
very serious results have come from it. A medical friend of my own
at an evening party proposed to make some passes, and one young lady
became insensible and remained so for three days. Her family and the
gentleman concerned were, of course, very anxious during that time,
and such results, more or less marked, will occur if the experiments are
indifferently practised upon a promiscuous assembly. Mention has
been made of the movement of a heavy table. That reminds me of
what I was told by a member of the Bench of Bishops, that he was
staying at the house of a friend, where a young girl was said to have a
remarkable power in effecting movement of heavy bodies, and he saw
her put her hand on a heavy dining-room table, and it moved away
from her with a force which her own ordinary physical exertion would
have been quite incapable of giving to it. An eminent astronomer,
well-known to many here present, told me he was in a friend’s house
where experiments of this kind were tried and where chairs, ranged
round the back room, came from their places, and slid across the floor,
until they came into the front room.
• .The Chairman —Will you give me the name of your informant i
Dr. Heaton—Dr. Huggins.
The Chairman—One of the most eminent scientific men of the
present day.
Dr. Heaton—Mr. Crookes said that these phenomena were as amply
proved by evidence as any of the phenomena in Section A. I do not
know whether that is so, but what is proved by experiment in Section
A is believed by the whole of the community, and .it is a fact that only
a small proportion believe in these, facts of levitation. J There must be
some difterence in the circumstances of one case and the other. It
cannot be merely that it is not within our own experience, as in the
case of the frozen water, because we are all in the same circumstances,
and have had the same experience, in the same country, to the present
time, and yet these performances are not believed always to be real.
I suppose the fact is, it is something so entirely opposed to our ex¬
perience that we do not know how to give them our belief. My own
mind is in a state of uncertainty in these matters at the present time,
and it is only the result of some investigations by a scientific body of
examiners which will lead us to more certain conclusions.
Dr. Carpenter;—We scientific men accept Mr. Crookes’ statements
Sept. 22, 1876.
DfiE SPlMTtJALISt.
9a
upon the radiometer and upon the whole series of beautiful researches
by which he has brought that instrument to its present position. Why
do we accept them ? Because these can be reproduced at any time, and
by any person. (Applause.) If Mr. Crookes could show us the pheno¬
mena which he has described, or if you or Dr. Huggins could show us
the phenomena at any time which have been described in your writings,
we could give them exactly the same attention. (Applause.)
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS BY PROFESSOR WALLACE.
The Chairman—As I have myself been more or less acquainted with
the whole series of phenomena which have been referred to, for about
thirty years, I should like to give a few things I have myself met with,
which will serve to answer some of the theories propounded to account
for them. With regard to the phenomena of mesmerism, I found myself
able to produce them thirty years ago, almost in the same form as they
occur at the hands of public exhibitors, and two or three curious
little instances convinced me that they could not be accounted for by
any unconscious action or any preconceived ideas. To take one very
slight case, which made a very great impression upon me, showing that
there was a real action upon the muscles, and not a preconceived idea
that there ought to be, or must be, such an action. Once I was in a
school, and had a great number of little boys under my charge, and
among these I used to experiment. One day I had one of these boys in
my room. I had been making him rigid in the usual way, when the
bell rang for dinner. I immediately made the contrary passes, to bring
his arm back to the normal state. We both thought it was all right,
and came down stairs to dinner. After a little while I saw him trying
to catch my eye, and found he was sitting with his knife in one hand,
and the other hand down at his side, and unable to bring up his fork
to his mouth. I had to get up, and make two or three passes and
relieve him, so that he could eat his dinner. There was a clear case,
in which there was no deception on his part. I used also to perform
the experiment of drawing a chalk-line on the floor, and making a pass
across it. The result was, the boy would walk up to it, and there
stick, and generally become rigid. This was done in the presence
of all his schoolfellows, and they said—“ Take a run at it, and
then, of course, you will go over it.” “ Oh, yes,” he said; and so
he ran at it, and the result was the moment his feet got on to the
mark they stuck so firmly that he fell perfectly flat on the floor. There
was a case in which he evidently believed he could get across the mark.
I saw another curious example in South America, for, when two thousand
miles in the interior, my brother, who felt a great interest in this subject,
used to call little Indian boys out of the street, who certainly had never
heard or known anything about it, and he found that at least half of them
were acted upon in exactly the same way as the boys in England. He
could send them into this extraordinary state, and produce rigidity and
anything of that kind. Still more extraordinary, one day he and I were
going to take a walk into the forest, and we stayed at a hut. He saw a
man sitting in the hut, and asked him to let him try to send him to
sleep. He made a few passes over him, and found he could immediately
make him rigid. He told the man to lie down on the floor, made a pass
over him, and said, “ Stop there till we come back.” The man tried to
move, but could not, and when we came back in about an hour, there he
was lying on the floor, exactly in the same condition in which we left
him, perfectly awake, and begging earnestly to be allowed to get up ; we
sent a pass across him, and he rose. Another curious instance I had
myself was the inducing what I used to call community of taste and
feeling. One of the patients I had in the school was very easily acted
upon in this manner. When he was sent into a mesmeric trance we
used to make a chain of all the persons present, connected by hands
with me. Then I would secretly take something out of my pocket to put
it into my mouth. If it was sugar he would immediately begin working
his mouth, and saying, “ How nice it is! ” If it was salt he would say,
“What have you put salt in my mouth for ? ” If anybody came behind
' me and pricked me in any part of the body, he would immediately put
his hand to the same part and say he was pricked. That happened so
repeatedly that I am perfectly certain there was no possible hint by
which he could have obtained this detailed information of what was
going on; his sensations, in fact, reproduced my sensations. That is a
phenomenon I have not seen explained anywhere. Again, with regard to
clairvoyance, I have never seen a perfect case of clairvoyance myself,
but I must recall to your recollection that a former professor of che¬
mistry, Professor Gregory, devoted many years to the investigation of
this subject, and has published a large volume in which he collected
together a host of facts, and shows that in numerous cases the true clair¬
voyance, that is, the knowledge of writing which could not possibly be
present in the mind of any one of the spectators, was acquired by these
patients. One of the most striking cases was to buy some nuts con¬
taining mottoes. These, of course, could not possibly be known to any
individual present. One was picked up at random and put into the
hand of the clairvoyant, who held it up and read the motto; the nut
was broken open, and found word for word as it was read. That was
done scores of times in his presence, and in one case, which he mentions
particularly, the motto consisted of 96 words, the whole of which was
given correctly. I thought that was a very curious suggestion of Mr.
Hyde Clarke’s, that we must bring these things over and over again.
There are certain phenomena you cannot bring before you; they must
be sought for, and a case very much in point is that of the meteorolites,
the fall of which was for many centuries disbelieved by scientific men,
and it was only after a considerable number had been actually recorded
that they accepted it as a fact. According to the general system of
unbelief, we ought to disbelieve it even now, because the scientific men
cannot, prognosticate when a meteorolite is going to fall, and we cannot
go and see them fall. Professor Barrett himself thinks that many of
these phenomena, when they were so extraordinary and beyond his own
knowledge, were to be accounted for by simultaneous delusion of the
spectators, and he particularly alluded to the case of Mr, Home. Mr.
S. C. Hall was present at a private party, at which Mrs. Hall and
II another lady of my acquaintance were also present, and Mr.JHall told
! (| me this fact, which he has also published himself. After Mr. Home
hi. had taken some hot coals from the fire, he placed one pn the top of
j)i Mr. Hall’s bare head, drawing up the white, thin hair around it till the
| | coal glowed in the middle of his head. Mr. Hall declares he felt no
III sensation of pain or burning, and his hair was not singed ; but several
|) | other persons touched the coal while it was on his head and got their
| (| fingers burnt. A little bit of confirmatory evidence I want to adduce to
!jj you, to show that this was not a coincident hallucination of ail the
i) | persons present, is this, that the next morning, when Mr. Hall brushed
\(\ his hair, some particles of cinders were brushed out, and I think that
>j is a considerable proof that the coal was really put upon his head. I
i(j will now call upon Professor Barrett to reply.
!)j PROFESSOR BARRETT’S REPLY.
|| Professor Barrett—I will detain the section a very few minutes. It
certainly shows the immense advance that this subject has made within
| the last few years, that a paper on the once laughed-at phenomena of
so-called Spiritualism should have been admitted into the British
j Association, and should have been permitted to receive the full discus¬
sion it has had to-day. I am extremely glad that this discussion has
yj occurred, and has occurred in so very friendly and pleasant a manner;
>1 and if I do not reply to all my critics, remember that throughout
| my paper I have carefully confined myself to facts witnessed by myself,
j and I wish to reiterate my emphatic assertion that I have formed no
opinion as to their cause. Indeed the Spiritualistic explanation is a
leap in the dark, which I myself am not yet prepared to take. Looking
j at the phenomena of nature now recognised by scientific men, we find
)j outside our own personality, but penetrating all space, there is a subtle
j unseen form of matter, which has no place amongst the elements with
which physical science deals; that is the so-called ether. Then
) | secondly, scientific men at the present day recognise an unseen exist-
(| ence, which we call our consciousness, or being, and it seems highly
| probable from the facts I have stated in my paper that there is an un-
seen and unconscious influence of energy, or a sphere of personality,
ci around that conscious being. We may also add that there may exist
\ I in some persons, and at some times, an unlocalised sixth sense, gene-
) I rally latent, but which sometimes can be called into existence. Those
(j are all the conclusions to which I have been able to come, but that does
ij not show that my conclusions are correct. Those who, like our Presi-
)j dent and Mr. Crookes, have had far more opportunities than myself,
| and have been far longer engaged in this inquiry, and whose opinion is
ij entitled to far greater weight than my own, ought to be listened to, not
) | with contempt, but at any rate with a wish for further inquiry. I regret
| j if I have given any wrong impression of Dr. Carpenter’s excellent work
ji on mental physiology, but the wrong impression, if I have given
} i any, has been in the direction rather opposite to that which
(j every one would expect. Dr. Carpenter, in fact, is willing to
11 go further than I gave him credit for, for he says about
)i thought-reading at the present day, that the muscular sense is a
(| clue, no doubt, to a great deal of the phenomena, but he does not
jj say to all, and the phenomena that I have detailed to-day show the
|! entire exclusion of the muscular sense; still there exists presumptive
(| evidence that thought-reading can take place. Now Dr. Carpenter
/ j says the same thing with reference to these Spiritualistic phenomena,
11 that electro-biology, as it is barbarously called, or fraud, can, and no
j | doubt does, account for a great many of the phenomena; but I would
) | ask Dr. Carpenter to get up and say that it accounts for all the pheno-
(j mena. I venture to say he would not say this, and I would ask him if
(| he is prepared to say that every one of the phenomena of Spiritualism
| can be explained away by these two common arguments that are used.
11 Mr. Hyde Clarke says there is no change of opinion at the present day.
) j Dr. Elliotson was ridiculed by his professional brethren, yet his facts
) i are now admitted by Dr. Carpenter and Dr. Maudslgy, and other very
(I eminent psychologists. Yet Mr. Hyde Clarke says there is no change
(j of opinion at the present day. Spiritualism was laughed at as a diluted
) j insanity, yet now Dr. Carpenter joins me in the wish for further inquiry
(| into this matter. Yet Mr. Hyde Clarke says there is no change of
i! opinion at the present day, and the phenomena are exactly where
) | they were 100 years ago—long ago refuted, and therefore only fit to
jj be kicked out of sight. I quite admit that there is great reason
ij for caution in conducting these experiments. I am well aware
jj that there is very great danger to the subject in conducting them,
j j and therefore I would not encourage those who had heard my paper
) | to-day to go home and repeat those experiments, else they will most
jj certainly produce injury to the subjects they operate upon. It was
11 only in the presence of a medical man that I ventured to make the
j | experiments. There is still more danger in pandering to that morbid
) | state of mind which is so likely to be produced by witnessing the phe-
j j nomena of Spiritualism, and therefore I say that, looking at the danger
>! of leaving these facts to half-educated people, and excitable men and
/ j women—looking at all the weight of evidence that has been adduced by
j | Lord Rayleigh, Mr. Crookes, Dr. Huggins, Mr. Cooke, our president, and
) | other eminent men whose names I am not at liberty to mention, though
jj some of them have been past presidents of .this Association—I say that
jj it is incumbent upon every one who has witnessed these phenomena to
j | come forward, and, be the consequences what they may, to have the
jl courage to state those facts in public, and take the blame, if blame
j j attaches to it. I would also say that, in view of what we have heard
jj to-day, I think this section should not break up without coming to
| some practical resolution, and, therefore, I beg to ask that the following
| resolution be referred to the committee of this section. (Cries of “ Order,
| Order.”) I am out of order in asking the section to pass the resolution,
j j but I think I am not out of order in asking that the resolution be referred
j j to the committee of the section.
ji Dr. Carpenter—You may send to the committee any proposal you like.
Prof. Barrett—Then I will take Dr. Carpenter’s suggestion and send
94
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sem. 22, 1876.
the following resolution to the committee of recommendations for the
approval or not of the Council of the British Association—“ That in
view of the facts recorded in the paper of Prof. Barrett, and the discus¬
sion thereon, it is desirable that a committee composed of scientific men
should be appointed to inquire into the so-called phenomena of mes¬
merism and Spiritualism, so as to remove the matter from the present
uncertainty of opinion which prevails on this subject.”
Dr. Carpenter—Prof. Barrett says I have characterised belief in
Spiritualism as a diluted insanity. I have used that phrase, but to the
best of my recollection only as applying to cases where a belief is taken
up on extremely inadequate grounds. I do not think that I ought to be
stated to have given that extremely strong expression beyond what I
myself applied it to.
Prof. Barrett—I am only too glad to be corrected on this point by
Dr. Carpenter, for it is a further confirmation of the facts in my paper
with regard to the gradual change of opinion. I quoted from page 653
of his last edition of Mental Physiology—“Every one who accepts as
facts, merely on the evidence of his own senses, or on the testimony of
others, what common sense tells him to be much more probably the
fiction of his imagination, even though confirmed by the testimony of
hundreds affected by the same epidemic delusion, must be regarded as
the subject of a diluted insanity.”
Dr. Carpenter—I think lam justified in saying, what I mean is that
he has not strictly inquired into the evidence. A gentleman wrote to
me, a medical man, and asked me if it was true that I had somewhere
expressed myself that every believer in Spiritualism was affected with
diluted insanity; and then he went on to tell me that he had a garret
in his house in which a number of things were put away. This garret
was kept locked. He went into it one day, and found that these things
were all brought together on the bed. He put them away in the place
where they were before, and locked the door again. A fortnight
afterwards he took a friend into this room. He found the door locked,
but piled up in the form of a cross were a number of those articles. He
asked, (g How am I to account for this except by Spiritual agency 1 ”
My reply was, “ My dear sir, everybody knows there are people who
find a delight in mystifying others, and I recommend you to look
among the members of your own household for some one or other who
has got access to the room, although the door is locked. Put a seal on
the door; try some other method of finding out whether the door has
been used in your absence, and if you cannot • find it out, get a good
detective policeman to investigate the case, and see what he can do. I
say, if upon that very slender evidence you give your mind to the belief
that spirits came into your house and piled the things on your bed, you
are affected by a diluted insanity.” (Applause.) Mr. Barrett asked
me if I pretended to say that all the facts of Spiritualism can be
accounted for in the manner 1 have expressed. The question is, what
are the facts of Spiritualism 1 If, for instance, I visit Dr. Slade, and
the chair jumps up and then falls back again, is that a fact of
Spiritualism 1 How do I know that it is a fact of Spiritualism till I
have carefully investigated that chair, till I have found whether there
are concealed springs and mechanism to make that chair jump up; till I
have found whether Dr. Slade can make my own chair jump up ? I
apply that to every other case. These things must be carefully inves¬
tigated, and I do not think a better answer can be given to the testi¬
mony that you quoted of Doctor Gregory than this simple fact. My
late friend, Sir James Simpson, who was a wealthy man at that time,
receiving a very large professional income, placed a T500 note in a case,
sealed up in a box. This was placed in the hands of a neutral person.
It has been said, “ Oh, this gift of clairvoyance cannot be exercised
except under very favourable circumstances.” Dr. Gregory admitted
that there was nothing that should prevent his clairvoyants from
applying their powers to finding out the question Sir James Simpson
put:—“If any one of Dr. Gregory’s clairvoyants will tell me the
number of the £500 note, he shall have it.” That note remained for
many months in the possession of this neutral person, and Dr. Gregory
was obliged to confess that none of these clairvoyants who could read
these long mottoes of seventy words, could read what was of infinitely
more value to them, the number of the note. (Applause.) I do not
think that was a disproof ; I only say that it threw doubt upon all those
other cases.
The President—As Dr. Carpenter has made some fresh observations
on a point to some extent personal, 1 should like to make a slight
correction with regard to this statement of his about the diluted in- Kj
sanity. He has introduced a subsequent case, and informed us that it j)j
is applicable to that: but the statement was not applied to that, but i) |
to the investigations of Mr. Yarley, the eminent electrician,, who i(j
narrated facts that occurred in his own house, in his own presence, m
repeatedly, under varying conditions, and by Mr. Crookes, who, as he i)|
has told you to-day, has also pbserved in his own house, with the Kj
most rigid accuracy, phenomena of this kind. It was to their ex- IVj
periments that Dr. Carpenter applied the expression that, if they m
believed the evidence of their own senses, they were to be considered K j
only as in a state of diluted insanity. It is not right to put it on a j;j
new scent altogether. With regard to the £500 note one negative will ;/1
never disprove established facts, and even if the number of this<£500 Kj
note was not read, that does not disprove the cases in which the j)j
mottoes were read. You cannot disprove an affirmative by a negative. \l \
Again, why should we be asked to believe that there ever was a £500 K j
note? .They disbelieve our facts. Why should we believe theirs? j/j
They do not believe the statements of Spiritualists to be true; how j(j
do we know that this was not a dream, that it was not a piece j)j
of blank paper? We are asked to take these things on hearsay, j)j
and when we state facts we are told, “ Oh, it is mere hearsay.” K i
(Applause.) We have been told by Professor Tyndall that he went to j) i
a seemce himself, and played tricks all the time. jjj
Dr. Carpenter^—I think the imputation on Sir James Simpson is (
altogether unwarranted. (Hear, hear.) As to what I stated, it was a
ju matter of public notoriety at the time, but the Chairman was absent
iji from the country on his professional explorations. To the best of my
j|i remembrance Professor Gregory was shown the note, or at all events
}| be and all the members of the profession in Edinburgh were perfectly
j cognisant of the fact to which I have referred. (Applause.) I will not
|| stand here and allow the character of Sir James Simpson to be called
11 in question. (Renewed applause.)
Il The Chairman—I call no man’s character in question. (Cries of
h “ You did.”)
j Dr. Carpenter—You did. You said, how did you know that it was a
'I genuine note. (Hear, hear.);
11 The Chairman—I say again how do we know; we have no docu-
! mentary evidence—merely recollection. I think we have no right to
i receive any statements of that kind unless they are authenticated.
| (Applause.)
Professor Barrett—I do not think we are called upon to believe or
i disbelieve this statement. Don’t let us break up in anger. (Hear,
j hear.) There has at least been sufficient evidence given to show that
j full inquiry ought to be made.
I A gentleman in the body of the hall essayed to continued the dis¬
cussion, but the audience became very impatient; and amidst cries of
! “ Pass to the next paper,” the subject dropped,no reference being made
to the resolution suggested by Professor Barrett.
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The following are extracts from two of the letters read by
I Professor Barrett to the British Association at Glasgow.
| The first is from a well-known man of science :—
The sitting was a short one, but quite satisfactory that the writing is
j not done by Slade himself.
| We had a long rhapsodical communication on Spiritualism, which filled
j the whole of one side of the slate. It was much more neatly written
than any previous attempt I had seen. It took, I should think, five or
six minutes to write. During that time Slade spoke freely, and I pur-
| posely asked him various desultory questions, which he answered and
| explained quite readily and fully, while the writing was still audibly
j proceeding. He seemed much struck with the rhapsody, recognised it
! as like his wife’s flowery style, and kept it to have it copied. The most
remarkable point of the proceedings was when I got the slate in my
left hand (it was a cracked slate, and well cleaned), and held it firm
against the under surface of the table, while both Slade’s hands were at
a distance on the middle of the table, in contact with my right hand,
and his feet away out at a distance from me. In this position the slate
, was absolutely free from contact with anybody but myself and the table.
Yet I had a distinctly-written sentence, and felt the grating of the
pencil while the sound of writing was going on.
Slade said he saw the blue light on my right arm, and a white hand
'on the back of my chair ! I did not see either light or hand, but my
chair was certainly pulled or pushed at the time a few inches back from
the table.
I am still unconvinced about spirits. I cannot for the life of me
suggest any conceivable explanation of what we have seen. All I am
prepared to swear is, that the effects really do take place, and that no
visible machinery of any kind is employed.
I shall be glad to know, when you can find time to write, what further
illustrations you have had of this man’s wonderful powers.
The following is extracted from a letter to Professor
Barrett, written by an M.A. of Cambridge:—
I went alone, and found Slade would give me a sitting at once ; time
four o’clock; full light, and same table as before. The writing corn*
menced at once, but it did not go on long;
The only long message written was with the slate above the table,
and Slade’s hand on top ; in this case the slate was completely covered
with writing. In only one instance, and that a, short sentence, was the
scrap of slate pencil left at the end of the last word. The writing
occurred when one edge of the slate was visible below the table, and I
could see that it was pressed up against the table at Slade’s end, and
not more than half an inch from the table at the other end, it oscillated
in time to the writing. This would be important but for the far better
experiment of laying the slate on the top of the table, which we saw
together, and which I saw repeated in an exactly similar way.
Writing also took place when Slade was holding the slate on my
head, again oscillating in time to the scraping of the pencil, the varying
pressure very distinct. I wish there had been another witness of this ;
as, of course, I could not see the position of Slade’s hand.
The chair was thrown up as before, except that it rose less violently,
and I saw it rising before it struck the underside of the table; it was as
if pushed, not thrown up.
Slade’s feet were not both in sight at the time he did this, but his
position was such that it was impossible for him to have reached it with
Ids feet. The table also rose about five or six inches off the ground,
our hands all resting on it, my right foot was on Slade’s left foot Under
the table, his right leg was visible to me nearly to the knee, and the
position of his knee would be about four inches below the cross-rail of
the table; I don’t see how he could lift it with his legs under these cir¬
cumstances. My right knee was twice touched by something, quite
softly. I was sitting at Slade’s right, and the knee was touched on the
right side, so that it was touched from the opposite side to Slade, and
was the part of my body farthest away from him. I cannot think he
could have done this with his toe without being immediately detected.
Any questions you want to ask I shall be glad to answer:
Sept. 22, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
05
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Preparations are now being made at 38, Great Russell-
street, for work during the coming winter. A series of
seances is in course of organisation by the liberal help of
Mr. Charles Blackburn, under similar conditions to those
held last season. They will commence in October, and be
continued to the end of the year. It is also in contempla¬
tion to renew the fortnightly discussion meetings, the pub¬
lication of which formerly created so much interest. The
monthly soirees open again on the 4th October. The first
will be made the occasion of offering the good wishes of the
Association to Dr. Slade previous to his departure for St.
Petersburg. The Misses Withall have again kindly under¬
taken to contribute to the musical entertainment, and Mrs.
"Weldon has also promised her valuable aid.
Several new objects of interest which have lately been
added to the collection at Great Russell-street will be on
view, and the library will be found to be much more exten¬
sive than formerly. Many new members who have lately
joined the Association will be present, and as some friends
who are now absent will then have returned to town, a good
gathering may be expected.
A SITTING WITH DR. SLADE.
BY CONRAD W. COOKE, MEMBER OP THE SOCIETY OP TELEGRAPH ENGINEERS.
On the afternoon of Saturday, August 19th, 1876, I, in
company with Professor , had a “ sitting ” with Dr. *
Slade, at a house in Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square.
We arrived at the house a little before three o’clock, and as
Dr. Slade was giving a seance to some other gentlemen, we
were asked into a front drawing-room on the first floor,
where we were received by Dr. Slade’s manager or secretary,
who was writing at a side table. He left off writing to
entertain us, but at our request returned to his correspon¬
dence, while we amused ourselves with the newspapers and
periodicals on the tables. We waited perhaps for twenty
minutes to half-an-hour, during which time loud noises pro¬
ceeded from the adjoining room, as if furniture were being
moved about; sometimes as if it were lifted and dropped to
the floor. Dr. Slade’s secretary was writing all this time at
a table near the window, on the opposite side of the room to
the wall separating us from Dr. Slade’s room, and he
remarked to us, “ Those gentlemen are having some good
manifestations,” or words of similar import.
Presently two gentlemen came out, handed a fee to the
secretary, and went away. Dr. Slade then came in, and took
us into the adjoining room, which was an ordinary back
drawing-room of such houses, furnished as lodging-houses
generally are, and having a rectangular double-flap table in
the middle of the room, rather farther from the window than
the centre of the room would be. This table was covered
with a somewhat shabby coloured table cover, which Dr.
Slade removed. He then asked us to examine the table.
This we did by moving it, turning it up, and trying it by
tapping it in various places. As far as we could see, it was
a perfectly ordinary table; the flaps were of the ordinary
thickness, and to all appearance quite solid.
The table-cover was not replaced, and we, at Dr. Slade’s
request, sat at the table in the following manner:—Dr.
Slade sat with his back to the window and facing the wall
which divided us from the room in which he had previously
been waiting. I sat opposite to and facing him, and there¬
fore having the window in front of me, Professor sat
between us, and at right angles to the way we were sitting,
having Dr. Slade to his left and myself to his right.
The room was in no way darkened, and the day, though
generally cloudy, was interspersed with gleams of sunshine.
I mention this to show that what we saw was in broad open
daylight, in a room illuminated by a large window facing to¬
wards the west.
We sat as I have said at three sides of the table, with our
hands upon it, and touching one another, forming what Dr.
Slade called a “chain.” Professor ’s left hand rested
on the back of the right hand of Dr. Slade, Dr. Slade’s
II left hand was upon my right, and my left upon Professor
| ’s right.
In this way we sat for perhaps three or four minutes,
I when the table gave two or three distinct tremendous pulsa-
! tions, at first feeble and far between, but following closer
If upon one another, and becorning more decided in a few
minutes. These were followed by gentle taps such as would
| be produced by a finger-nail tapping on the table, and then
j by raps becoming louder until they violently shook the latter
| and almost lifted it momentarily from the ground.
Dr. Slade then said, “Are you here, Allie?” Taps came
on the table as if in reply, and Dr. Slade produced an ordi-
I nary school slate, and biting off a piece from the end of a
slate pencil (a feat which showed an extraordinary strength
in his teeth), he placed a piece about the size of a rice-grain
| on the slate, which he held under the table, pressing it up
! against the under side of the flap, which was over Professor
 ’s knees. During this time the “ chain” was main-
j tained as before, except that Dr. Slade had but one hand
| joining ours, the other being employed to hold the slate.
| In holding the slate under the table he did so by clasping
| the edge of the table and the slate together, after the
| manner of a clamp, so that his thumb was above the table.
] Immediately the slate was held against the table we dis-
| tinctly heard a slate pencil writing on it, and when it ceased
Dr. Slade pulled the slate away, apparently as if he en-
j countered resistance, sliding it away from the edge in a
| manner very similar to sliding away an armature from a
| tolerably powerful permanent magnet, and upon the slate
I there were words written in a very clear hand.
Professor then asked Dr. Slade if he thought writing
| could be produced on the slate if it were above the table,
j Dr. Slade asked the question verbally, and placing the slate,
I as before, under the flap the following words were written
on it, “ I do not know, but I will try.” The “ grain”of
j slate pencil was then placed on the table and covered by the
j slate, upon which Dr. Slade placed the palm of his left
hand, his other hand being above the table and touching
ours. The sound of the writing immediately commenced, and
continued for several minutes, only stopping whenever any
of us lifted a hand so as to “break the chain,” as Dr. Slado
| expressed it. When the slate was turned up, it was per-
| fectly covered with small, clear writing, a sort of essay
upon the beneficial and harmless nature of Spiritualism,
j which it called by that name, and finishing up with the
| signature “A. F. Slade.” While this was going on, what
felt very much like a hand grasped my right knee, wnich
j was quite beyond the reach of Dr. Slade’s foot, and both
| his hands were above the table. A few minutes afterwards,
| Professor  ’s chair was pulled partly from under him,
I and Dr. Slade declared that he could see a hand taking hold
j of the back of it, but neither the Professor nor myself could
see anything of the sort.
Professor then requested to be allowed to hold the
| slate himself. A grain of slate pencil was placed on the
I slate, which he held under the flap of the table, and pressing
j it up against it. In a moment the writing commenced, and
| a word or two was written on the slate. During the experi-
I ment both Dr. Slade’s hands were above the table. A few
| minutes after, when the slate was held under the table, the
following words were written:—“ Good-bye, I cannot do
| any more,” and after that no more writing or raps were
produced, and we came away.
In the above notes I have simply stated the facts as they
| took place before my eyes, and those of my friend, in open
| daylight, on an afternoon in August, between three and four
j o’clock, and I offer no comments as to their cause.
At the discussion upon Professor Barrett’s paper at the
| British Association at Glasgow, I was prepared to make
| the statement contained above,, and I rose for that purpose,
| and to propose that the British Association should appoint a
commitree to investigate the subject of Spiritualism (so-
| called), and to draw up a report upon the subject. At the
suggestion of Dr. Carpenter, however, I omitted the state-
I ment, and made only the proposal. The reason Dr.
Carpenter urged for my not mentioning Dr. Slade was,
j that he was only now upon his trial, and it would not be
j fair to quote sittings with him in evidence on such an
; occasion as that meeting.
Sept. 22, 1876.
96 THE SPIRITUALIST.
©ormpontience.
[®nut fi'eedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
IMITATIONS OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Sir,—Please allow me to inform your correspondent, “ G. G.,” that
an open visit from me to the back parlour, at the u Home for Spirit¬
ualists,” with Messrs. Slade, Simmons and Co. upon the qui vive,
would be the most unlikely way to discover the secrets. I am adopting
my usual mode for discovering trickery with Dr. Slade, and, if with
usual success, I shall be in possession of the key to his mysteries ere
long.
, I see Mr. Joy is again parading his boasted .£1,000 challenge. I
have no time or inclination to open another correspondence with that
gentleman, for it is evident, from the absurd condition which he pro¬
posed, that he never intended to risk a thousand pounds.
If Mr. Joy really has a “ medium ” with a speciality which he be¬
lieves is beyond the grasp of a conjuror, why not ‘‘ trot him out,” and
let the public see what can be aceomplished. We have the minor
Egyptian Hall at liberty, which Mr. Joy shall use free of charge ; I
will advertise the seance, and the profits shall be given to charities :
and if his “ medium ” does not share the same fate as the Davenports,
Miss Fay, and all others who have been bold enough to creep from
under the wing of the “ faithful,” then Spiritualists can score one from
the conjurors.
Honest believers in Spiritualism ought to be thankful to me for show¬
ing them to what an alarming extent it is possible for a medium to
impose upon them, and I am convinced that my performances have
roused many adherents to your doctrine from a state of credulous
apathy, the result of which has been that Spiritualists themselves have
detected imposture tenfold since my advent in London.
That I am not assisted by demons, or possess any supernatural
power whatever, I have offered to prove many times, and again repeat
that I will explain the modus operandi of any of my mysteries except
Psycho to two Spiritualists of honour who will pledge themselves not
to divulge those secrets until the publication of my book, Modern
Miracles; How to Work them.—Yours respectfully,
Jn. Maskelyne/
Egyptian Hall, Sept. 10, 1876.
[Psycho is worked by compressing and exhausting the air in the glass
cylinder, whereby clockwork apparatus is started and stopped inside Psycho
and his box, at the right moments. The air passes in and out through the
fabric on which the bottom of the cylinder rests, and any spectator, by taking
a flat sheet of glass, larger than the bottom of the glass cylinder of Psycho,
and who may offer to place it between the cylinder and the pedestal, will have
his proposal rejected before the whole audience, because it would stop the
working of the automaton. Sometimes Psycho has been connected direct with
air-pumping apparatus by a pipe; at other times compressed air in the
pedestal has been governed in its escapement by electrical valves. The
“ animated tambourine ” on the table in the middle of the audience, has soft
iron in its rim, and is worked by electro-magnetic apparatus ; we shall
probably give a sectional drawing of the whole arrangement some day.
What Mr Maskelyne says about his performance helping Spiritualism is
true; they advertise it, keep it before the public, and excite a curiosity in
the minds of all but the most simple and credulous—who would not become
Spiritualists under any circumstances—to see the real thing. But the moral
position of Mr. Maskelyne in the matter is quite another branch of the subject.
As regards Psycho, a folded newspaper, which anybody may have in the
stalls, if placed between the bottom of the glass cylinder and the pedestal,
will stop the action of the automaton, only the committee must sharply watch
that Mr. Maskelyne does not by any means pierce holes in it to let air through, j
-Ed.] -
Mrs. Fitzgerald is at Brighton on a visit to her brother, Sir James I
de Saumarez Jephson, Bart.
Mr. George Walker, of the Bank of New South Wales, Melbourne,
long an active worker in the cause of Spiritualism in Australia, and a
contributor to the Harbinger of Light, has passed to the higher life.
Miss F. G. Theobald has just reprinted from The Spiritualist and
published as a pamphlet (W. H. Harrison, London) her essay, entitled,
“ Spiritualism in the Bible Identical with Modern Spiritualism.” It is
a useful pamphlet for presentation to persons of orthodox opinions. ji
Mrs. Weldon’s Private Choir.—Applicants for membership are |J
requested to apply by letter to Mrs. Weldon, at Tavistock House, ji
Tavistock-square, London, W.C., and to enclose an envelope ready jj
addressed and prepaid should an answer be required. First rehearsal, !
Saturday, 14th October. I
We have been informed of provincial visitors to London, who wished 1
to call at the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, hut were i
informed that only members were admitted. The said statement had no ij
foundation. Provincial friends, whether members or not, are desired to 12
call, and are always made thoroughly welcome. i
The recent wide publicity given to the subject of Spiritualism is j<
primarily due to the wise liberality of Mr. Charles Blackburn, of I
Manchester, in remunerating Dr. Slade for a series of siances to ||
literary and scientific men introduced by Mr. W. H. Harrison. Colonel j
Lane Fox, President of the Anthropological Institute, thus had his i
interest in the subject intensified, and his influence and remarks after- b
wards secured the narrow majority of one, which decided that Pro- jj
fessor Barrett’s paper should be read at the British Association at ij
Glasgow. In consequence of literary men having been similarly in- j(
terested, much more publicity for the proceedings was secured in the | J
London daily press than would otherwise have been the case. jj
SPIRITUALISM AND THE NEWSPAPERS.
|jd The London and provincial newspapers are generally agitated at
j j the present time about Dr. Slade’s mediumship, and the consideration
iyj of psychology at the British Association at Glasgow. A hasty young
ijl man, Mr. Lankester, the coroner—and coroners have been coming
: / i into public notice of late—wrote an explanation to the Times, setting
ju forth how Dr. Slade did the manifestations, the only fault of the
j j narrative being that they are not produced in the way intimated, as
jjj common care and patience in observing would have proved. How-
| (i ever, his rigmarole paved the way for the publication of more accu-
| ! rate accounts, whereby the cause of truth has been the gainer. Re-
ijj plies favourable to Dr. Slade appeared in the Times on Monday and
Hj Tuesday from Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. A. R. Wal-
jjj lace, Mr. Algernon Joy, and Mr. G. C. Joad. A letter from Serjeant
j/j Cox on Wednesday also points to conclusions different from those of
jh Mr. Lankester.
jjl The Daily Telegraph published an excellent summary, a column
jjl long, of the discussion at Glasgow. The Spectator and the Examiner
ju have articles on Dr. Slade’s mediumship, the former showing
j>j most knowledge of the subject. The Glasgow papers have pub-
ijj lished articles and letters on Spiritualism, and the utterances in
j i the Mail have been most untrustworthy. The Brighton Daily News,
ijj in a sensible leading article, points out that leaders of the unfortunate
j public ought to have some practical knowledge of the subjects they
j(j write and speak about, and that it is high time that men of science
jjj should investigate. The intelligent portion of the public know that
jji so much clamour is likely to be founded upon a fair proportion of
j(i fact, consequently the spirit of inquiry is abroad,
jjj Mr. Wallace’s letter to the Times is as follows :—
jjj To the Editor of the “Times?'
jn ’ Sir,—In the Times of the 16th inst. Professor E. Ray Lankester
jjj states that I am personally responsible for the reading of Professor
j I j Barrett’s paper before the Anthropological Department of the British
j (j Association, and that my supposed conduct is “ more than questionable.”
jjl: May I be allowed to show that this accusation (for such it amounts to)
j j is wholly without foundation ?
1 (j The paper in question was brought before the Committee of Section
j if D by the secretary, before which time I had never seen it. A member
j 2 j proposed that it should be reported on, but after a full discussion this
j(,j was negatived. The paper then passed to the Departmental Committee,
j j j where it was again discussed, and, on division, was left to be read in due
j 2 j course. Professor Lankester is evidently ignorant of the fact that the
j (j reading of this paper was decided after a vote taken in two committees,
ijj and he was, therefore, not justified in making the unqualified statement
j 2 j that, “ in consequence of the more than questionable action of Mr.
! (j Alfred Wallace, the discussions of the British Association have been
ij j degraded by the introduction of the subject of Spiritualism.” As to
j 21 Professor Lankester’s opinion as to what branches of inquiry are to be
j(j tabooed as “ degrading,” we have, on the other side, the practical evi-
jj] dence of such men as Lord Rayleigh, Mr. Crookes, Dr. Carpenter,, and
j2j Colonel Lane Fox—none of them inferior in scientific eminence to Pro-
I (| fessor Lankester, yet all taking part in the discussion, and all maintain-
' j ing that discussion and inquiry were necessary, while the close atten-
j tion of a late President of the Association and of a crowded audience
j showed the great interest the subject excited.
j As I have now shown that Professor Lankester commenced his letter
j with an erroneous statement of fact, and a ll more than questionable ”
statement of opinion, it is not to be wondered at that I find the re-
j mainder of his communication equally unsatisfactory. His account of
j what happened during his visit to Dr. Slade is so completely unlike
what happened during my own visit, as well as the recorded experiences
of Serjeant Cox, Mr. Carter Blake, and many others, that I can only
look upon it as a striking example of Dr. Carpenter’s theory of precon-
j ceived ideas. Professor Lankester went with the firm conviction
that all he was going to see would be imposture, and he believes he saw
imposture accordingly. The “ fumbling,” the “ manoeuvres,” the
j “ considerable interval of time ” between cleaning the slate and holding
it under the table, and the writing occurring on the opposite side of the
j slate to that on which the piece of pencil was placed, were all absent
j when I witnessed the experiment; while the fact that legible writing
occurred on the clean slate when held entirely in my own hand while
Dr. Slade's hands were both upon the table and held by my other hand,
j such writing being distinctly audible while in progress, and the further
j fact that Dr. Slade’s knees were always in sight, and that the slate was
never rested upon them at all, render it quite impossible for me to
accept the explanation of Professor Lankester and Dr. Donkin as
j applicable to any portion of the phenomena witnessed by me.—Yours
j faithfully, Alfred R. Wallace.
j Glasgow, Sept. 18.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze has presented a copy of Lord Amberley’s
work—An Analysis of Religious Belief—to the Library of the National
j Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street.
ANSWERS. TO CORRESPONDENTS.
j C.—No good would be done by flinging hard words at the journal in question.
S. (Brighton).—It is always impossible to say anything about the publication
j of anything without first seeing, it.
B. (Brighton).—The publication of your letter would merely lead to a warm
discussion of points of abstruse theological doctrine.
Mr. W. H. Harrison is still away from London in the Highlands of Scotland,
hence there has been delay in replying to letters addressed to him in town.
Letters addressed to Mr. Harrison, “ care of T. P. Barkas, Esq.,'F.G.S.,
Newcastle-on-Tyne,” will reach him on Sunday and Monday.
Erratum.—The letter from our Special Correspondent at Glasgow was last
week headed “ Friday ” instead of “ Tuesday ” in error.
Sept. 22, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Jiussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Associa .ion of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Eon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of. Naples. A
standard work"containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also-contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the. relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 8d. . _
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. "An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives.-describ-
ing manifestations produced by-spirit’s. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM-, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes. F.R.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate.the reality, of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERti ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
• and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
- IN ENGLAND; by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II.,. by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. Air introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spirituaiism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and. Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spii itnal-
7 ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
£lete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and condicions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. .5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuraiism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
• Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d:
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
; that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
: not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
■ distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
■ muriicatiou should be established, it will be by means of clair-
. voyance or some other of the latent and littie understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
PQEMB OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
. through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
. character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fld.; cheat) edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
hook- consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER’
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
- of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.'
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHS A W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OFTNATURE, given inspiration-
ally-threuglr the medhtmship of Mrs: Maria M. King.* 7s'fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED.- By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary withtbe.Mastodon,.
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s: fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. * (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis. »
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
-WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d. .
OUR PLANET, by. William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL-MEDlOlNE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s. .
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.’
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Kev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. BaTkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
• Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
' the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
; Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE ; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE OADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.) 10s
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer. 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating -to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the-Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
he Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
' " ' IL
„nr.
„ IV. .
„ Y. „ ;
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . .
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events m the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Coritaining Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and -Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Loye; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . .
3 6
6-
6
6.
7
2
3
’7
a o
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . ... .  
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpimiDAiilST Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Oreeda , .  .    .   . 5 Q-
Tne Wheel bf the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing In¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . , . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . ... . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
Iw the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. in six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko. M.A. . 10 0
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . , 3 9
The Dervishes; or, Oriental. Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. - ■ , . . . . ’ 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . .30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . . . , 18 0
The Koran: commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original - -
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 0
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS-
Special edition for Schools . , , .10
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
J. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Dentonj 3. MBb Lizzie
Dcten;
Mr.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR- HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
en; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich: C. The late
William Whiter 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M,
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton, is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by. the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
. MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas . E.
' Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. E. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and ReUgious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Ado] 1 h us Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevier. 3d.
ALL. ABOUT- CHARLES- II. -FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SOIENOE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by. Df. E. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 22, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
uallsTr, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SprituaJist News¬
paper Branch Office, 3S, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN: Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted, as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the snirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means hy which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtray ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY AND Rich. London Spirit-
waJi*?. Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
lO U.S.A. The most- faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, elea,r\y
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The SdeMist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser-
vaticns, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awardrd the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee fur the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about atrmal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curio1 ity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probaHy lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newnpaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Babon Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A "eview
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Price
6d., post free, 7d.  
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTRMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 98.  
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Hardee, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anoniime. 7. Rue de Lille. Palis. Post Office orders payable
to M Leymare.
THE FOOD QUESTION.Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of postcard. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OB, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOC ATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes-
tatiotis, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4'6, cloth, 7s. fid.  
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, add simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. \A.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branco Office,  ^
TBAHE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
_* WOBLD AND THE NFXl'. By BOBert Dale OwEN.
The main object of this book is to afford conclmive proof,
aside from bisiorieal evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of ihis—narratives tbat will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet wb ch are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daffy determines, in our courts of law,
the lite and death of men. This book affirms that tfcestrongest
of sll historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and tbat the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
Tht Spiritualitf Newspaper Branch Office.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE '
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
89, Great Marlborough Street. .
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tinbl as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s. .
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arrange! by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s. *
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TBEHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
• by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN UR1CH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 6s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the leather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association^^), Great Marlhcrcmgh-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Mavifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-couceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
th'ise of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
thail not now enter. We will only say that bis descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every rensonat le test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singulnrly free from dogmatic pretention) is
rigotously logical.’'—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduct on, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are werthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has, brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper iu which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the s’atement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmat'ses, norattemits to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a lemarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has dischaigedhis task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit wot Id, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People *ill appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—#<?«//* Wales liaily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Harbison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
rpHE RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL
Jl JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualisu.. Established in 1866.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Reiigio Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per j ear, at which price ttcusands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 8d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY ’AND MODERN
4 . SPIRITUALISM.
The Sesond Volume of The Identity of Primitiv
Christianity ana Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.p. '
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing. ■ " ,
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire. .
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V>-Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams andVisions
VII.—Trance and Eostacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer. > •
XI —The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death. ,
XIII. —The Spirit-World. ..v ‘
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion. ' ’ •
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price* 10s. ,6d. each, post free 11s.- 6d., at Tht
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to-rthe Spiritual Philosophy in the
world ! Issued weekly, at No. .9, Montgomery-place, BostorT,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Rue sell-street, London, W.C.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at ihe meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers, Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jot efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Brancb. Office.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
wittnut the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of- tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of tbe above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Netting hill, W
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES I’HE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
flhe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-eross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
v>* crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisemenis Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium lor advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications lor the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-slreet,
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedrtt day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave MaHa"-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and*8t. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.'
