A F^ECOFJD Of THE PROQREgg Of THE gCJEfCE /ND ETHICg OF gPlfITUyUHgM.
No. 18.—Vol. I. LONDON: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1871.
ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND THE HUMAN
BODY. : (
BY CROMWELL F. YARLEY,: C.E., M.R.I.
The words electricity and magnetism are so often
used by Spiritualists to express the forces which pro¬
duce certain Spiritual phenomena, and so many people
speak of the human body as possessing the power of
giving off. electric or magnetic force, that I request you
.to publish the following remarks, which I hope will
somewhat clear up the subject. • So far as I am aware,
the human body has absolutely no power, on account of
its vitality, of emitting either of these forces. When
any dissimilar imperfect conductors are rubbed to-
. gether, electric disturbance is the result; beyond this
-extent the human body cannot produce electricity, and
this electricity produced by friction against external
.objects is ^holly independent of vitality.
I freqiiehtly hear people remark that their bodies
are highly charged with electricity. One person de¬
scribes how, having combed his hair with a vulcanite
comb, 'it crackles and gives’ off light in the dark.
' Another how, upon pulling off rapidly a silken under¬
shirt, it has been luminous,.and given discharges at-
t fended with -a, snapping noise. Americans, who live in
: a much drier'atmosphere than we in England, often
' describe the effects produced by rapidly walking or
l rubbing the feet on a carpet in winter time, when one
is often, able to . give off .sparks half an inch in length.
A fourth form, of supposed bodily electrification, which
; has Ted’many people to'suppose that the brain was an
.electrical battery,,sending electricity through the nerves
?t<>^&)ttfract thA muscles, is; exhibijed an the-folio wing
:Tfcafttter r-^The' two’ terminals, -of ^-a very sensitive
galvailaiiaeter are connected each" with a separate basin
bf water. If the. hands be meAQslaeed.,'jbnte||||||||i
basih, on squeezing one hand violotitly, % positive
. current is almost always found to flow^ from '.that hand
Through the galvanometerJ .tp 'thb 'othcr hand which is.1
not-compressed. These phenomena Avere supposed to
indicate an electrified condition of the human body.
The first' instance alluded to, is. simply electricity
•^generated by the 'Trietiomof the hair against the yul-
TcSahife comb.. It is entirely, independent of the' human'
.body and its ■ condition, and can be produced by loose
■ hair as easily as by hair attached to the head.
The second case, that' of' the- silk undershirt drawn
rapidly from the body, is of a kindred character.: (The
skin and silk must each be dry, else the electricity
generated will be conducted away again by the mois¬
ture).
. The third form of excitation described, I have rei-j
.peatedly witnessed in America, when the thermometer
has been at zero Fahrenheit, and the air in consequence
• very dry; AtMr. Peter Cooper’s house in 1867, we lighted
the gas by, walking about the floor, rapidly shuffling’the
I the. feet over the carpet, and prejsfenjting- the finger to .the
i unlightedtgas issuing from.' the :gas-;buFUer•11; found the •
thick carpet to insulate'.so'well;, that, on .walking up|
and down, and touching ' Mr. Cooper each time T passed'
.hiity, such; a charge was' ultimately accumulated as. to
f enable 'him to give itotapptheya, painful, spark, fully
half an inch in length; .- -This electricity was (due do the
friction of my 'dry leather1 hoofs against 'the very dry
, wqollen .carpet,; and -could have been. produced' by a
pair of empty .boots, just as well, as when feet , were in
• them; This may’be easily shown in damp.England in
. the following way Place'a'thick woollen rug before
. a, blazing fire; on a,dry day; put a gold-leaf electro-
meter on the fable, and touch it with the. finger—the'
: gold-leaves will remain closed , until the foot is drawn
; briskly oyer the rug,'’'when-the leaves will fly asunder,
, and indicate the presence of I electricity . The mere
pressure of the feet on the jug will suffice, if it and. the
1 boots are • very •. dry and hot. - This force is not more
‘ than a grain on each square inch at the distance of half
. an inch.
-. The fourth, experiment of tlue.squeezing of the hand
’ under water, at the first blush really, seemed.to indicate
that electricity was the power by which-the brain con-
. tracts the muscles. In' 1854, while experimenting' night
, after^hight, uppm .this subject with a. very, sensitive
rapidly oscillating..reflecting galvanometer, I found that
after squeezing the hand, or suddenly relaxing itj and
opening, the; clenched‘fist, there was a momentary in-
. crease of electrical power instead of a decrease, I
further observed that when the wind was from th^
south-west, and had , continued so for several days, the
power of this so-called muscular current was less than
one-fourth as strong as when the wind had been blow¬
ing for several days from the north-east. .The former
wind I found almost invariably to be slightly negative
to the earth, whilst the north-east wind was as invari¬
ably powerfully electro-positive.
One foggy, evening, wishing to show these currents
to a visitor, and finding them to be very weak, ! en¬
deavoured to strengthen them by cleaning my hands
thoroughly with water containing some liquid ammonia,
to decompose the grease in the pores of the skin. The
result was a diminution instead of an increase of the
power. This led to an explanation of: the . cause of
these currents, for on washing my hands in very weak
nitric acid, and afterwards with water, I obtained more
power, when the hand was squeezed, than I had ever
experienced in the most persistent east [ wind. . It is
evident that the effect of compressing the hand was to
squeeze out some of the acid from the- pores of the
skin, which immediately generated a /current. By
simply putting the two hands in the basin, and drop¬
ping a little acid on one of Them,; a current was in¬
stantly generated without muscular; exertion. .'When
one hand was dipped in ammonia and the other in
nitric’acid, and afterwards washed with water, squeez¬
ing either hand produced a .current in the same direc¬
tion. Thus, it will be seen, that. these. currents are
simply due to electro-chemical action, and . are .in no
way evidence that the brain uses electricity to govern
the muscles.
If a ma,u lift a , four-pound weight with his out¬
stretched arm, he can carry it for a. certain number of-
minu.tes, andlhen.ljis arin fails,/ If the other arm be
now usedi it' can: .?up^ip^.tiivwei.ght:,.although-'the.first
;aF%;cannot do ’sq, | .Therefore,'^ii^Lj^^brajn were the.-
ipUrce of the poiver- that lifted the wer^if,vaUQ' it'Were'4
exhausted by the one arm, it would be unable to lift
the weight by means of the other arm. It is, there¬
fore, clear that the source of the power which lifted the
weight is in the arm, or rather the muscles governing
it,'the Brain being simply the direpting ngent calling
into activity the; forpie which The* Blood ,had.; stored in
the muscles.
Again, inasmuch as the nerves are very bad con¬
ductors of electricity, and are not insulated, it is per¬
fectly evident that ..this force which is emitted by the
brain is not electricity. : An electric signal flies from
France ;to America. (2,500 miles) in pne-third of a
second. - The time occupied by The passage of a nerve
force signal from the brain .of-'a whale to-his/tail
(say about 80 feet) is about two seconds, ,
The electric wave is in this case about 200,000 times
as-rapid as the nerve signal, wkich is. con elusive.evi¬
dence of-.thpir,. non-identit;y. • ( ., , ■ ,
;., Dr. ’ Badcliflp -has (shpjv,n. that jif The -large ■ nerve of, a
frog.be detached from The Bpdy with .the ; leg hanging
jto/it,,and that .if this-exposed ;nerye beA^-in.- long,
the, passage’of S:an .electric ^current .through. the upper
tenth of an ih,ch of .the., nerve will disturb the nerve
forge, when the ^muscle , contracts violently, although
absoiutelyjnouelectricity, has pagsedInto.it.,,
' Nowhere'have;I-seen;any;reliable .evidence,that,elec¬
tricity-exists ,in or about .the jhuman, body,,either, as a
source of motive-power ,or .otherwise. . All the feeble
electricity .which has .been -obtained from muscles can,
I -think, be explained ,by the different chemical con¬
ditions of-the-parts of the muscle itself.* For instance,
if: two metallic needles be inserted, one in the centre
and the'other in the-surface of a muscle, a current of
electricity will flow f from one to the other; in like
manner, if a sponge, or piece^of cotton-wool be impreg¬
nated on the, one, side with an, acid, and on the, other
with plain water, or an alkali, and two needles be thrust,
one in the alkaline, and the other in the acid solutions,
electricity will be engendered by the action of the two
different liquids ,on the metal. The same is observed in
plants ;: and in fact wherever there is any dissimilarity
of solution or metal there is invariably slight electrical
action. The forces by which mesmeric actions are pro¬
duced are neither electricity nor magnetism.
February 14th; 1871. • ; ■ C. F. Yarley.
* A living muscle is, alkaline, a dead muscle is acid; if in a dying muscle
one.part be dead.and acid, whilst.the other part is not quite dead, and so has
riot lost its alkalinity, all the coriditions are present to generate electricity.by '
simple Chemical action when two needles are inserted.—En.
LIFE AND INTELLIGENCE.*
BY PROFESSOR TYNDALL.
Two or three years ago in an ancient London College
—a clerical institution—I heard a very remarkable
lecture by a very remarkable man. Three or' four
hundred clergymen were present at the ’ lecture. The
orator began with the civilisation of Egypt in the time
of Joseph, pointing out that the very perfect organisa¬
tion of the kingdom, and the possession of chariots, in
one of which Joseph rode, indicated a long antecedent
period of civilisation. He then passed on to the mud
of the Nile, its rate of augmentation, its present thick¬
ness, and the remains of human handywork found
therein: thence to the rocks which bound the Nile
valley, and which teem with organic remains. Thus
in his own clear and admirable way he caused the idea
of the world’s age to expand itself indefinitely before
the mind of his audience, and he contrasted this with
the age usually assigned to the world. During his dis¬
course he seemed to be swimming against a stream;' he
manifestly thought that he was opposing, a general con¬
viction. He expected resistance; so did I. But it was
all a mistake: there was no adverse’ current, no opposing
conviction, no resistance, merely here and there a half-
humorous, but unsuccessful attempt to entangle him in
his talk. The meeting agreed with all that had been
said regarding the antiquity of the earth and of its life.
They had, indeed, known it all long ago, and they good-
humouredly rallied the lecturer for coming amongst
them with so stale a story. It was quite plain that
this large body of clergymen, who were, I should say,
the finest samples of their class, had entirely given up
the ancient landmarks, and transported the conceptfstt-
of life’s origin to an indefinitely distant past.^Ai^ rttl
This leads us to the gist of our present enq$^yr;$/Mc$£
is this Does life belong t° what we call nitttterj or 15’
it an independent principle inserted into matter afc.jso.me
suitable epoch—say when the physical conditions .be¬
came such as to permit of the development of life?
Let us put the question with all the reverence due to a
faith and culture in which we all were cradled—a faith
and culture, moreover, which are the undeniable historic
antecedents of-our present enlightenment. T say;-let'
us put the question reverently, ‘but . let; usi-a-lsp^pn-t-it’
clearly and definitely. There are the strongest groifinds-
for believing that during a certain period of its history1
the earth was not; nor was it fit to be, the theatre bf
life. - Whether this* was ever a nebulous period; - or
merely a molten period, does not much matter; and if
we revert to the nebulous condition, it is because’ the
probabilities' • are .really> on its side. Our question is
this:-—Did creative energy pause until the nebuloifs
matter had condensed, un til the;earth had been detached,
until the solar fire had so far withdrawn from the earth’s
vicinity as-to permit a crust to gather round the planet?
Did it wait until the air was isolated, until the'seas were
formed, until evaporation,’ Condensation, and the descent
of rain had'begun, until the eroding forces-of the atmo¬
sphere had weathered and? decomposed the molten rocks
so as ;to' form soils, until the sun’s rays had’ become so
tempered by distance;and by waste'as to be:chemically
fit for the’decompositions necessary to'vegetable life?
Having: waited through those HSons until the proper
conditions! had set in; did it send the fiat forth, ‘ Let
Life’-be ! V? - These questions define a hypothecs1: not
without-its difficulties, but the* dignity of which' was
demonstrated by the nobleness of the men whom it
sustained.
Modern scientific thought is called upon 'to decide
between this hypothesis and another: and public
thought generally will afterwards be called upon to do
the same. You may, however, rest secure in the belief
that the hypothesis just sketched can never be stormed,
and that it is sure, if it yield at all, to yield to a pro¬
longed siege. To gain new territory modern argument
requires more time than modern arms, though both of
them move with greater rapidity than of yore. . But
however the convictions of individuals here and there
may be influenced, the process must be slow and secular
which commends the rival hypothesis of Natural Evolu¬
tion to the public mind. For what are the core and
essence of this hypothesis? Strip it naked and you
stand face to face with the notion that not alone the,
* This is. quoted from a lecture on Tht Scientific Use of the Imagination,
delivered By :Dr. John TyridsCl, F.R.S., before the British Association at
Liverpool.—Ed.
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1871.
more ignoble forms of animalcular or animal life, not
alone the nobler forms of the horse and lion, not alone
the exquisite and -wonderful mechanism of the human
body, but that the human mind itself—emotion, intel¬
lect, will, and all their phenomena—were once latent
in a fiery cloud. Surely the mere statement of such a
notion is more than a refutation. Hut the hypothesis
would probably go even further than this. Many who
hold it would probably assent to the position that at the
present moment all our philosophy, all our poetry, all
our science, and all our art—Plato, Shakspeare, Newton,
and Raphael—are potential in the fires of the sun. We
long to learn something of our origin. If the Evolution
hypothesis be correct, even this unsatisfied yearning
must have come to us across the ages which separate
the unconscious primeval mist from the consciousness of
to-day. I do not think that any holder of the Evolu¬
tion hypothesis would say that I overstate it or over¬
strain it in any^way. I merely strip it of all vagueness,
and bring before you, unclothed and unvarnished, the
notions by which it must stand or fall.
Surely these notions represent an absurdity too mon- j
strous to be entertained by any sane mind. Let us,
however, give them fair play. Let us steady ourselves
in front of the hypothesis, and, dismissing all terror and
excitement from our minds, let us look firmly into it
with the hard sharp eye of intellect alone. Why are
these notions absurd, and why should sanity reject
them ? The law of Relativity, of which we have pre¬
viously spoken, may find its application here. These
Evolution notions are absurd, monstrous, and fit only
for the intellectual gibbet in relation to the ideas con¬
cerning matter which were drilled into us when young.
Spirit and matter have ever been presented to us in the
rudest contrast, the one as all-noble, the other as all-
vile. But is this correct ? Does it represent what our
mightiest spiritual teacher would call the Eternal Fact
of the Universe? Upon the answer to this question all
depends. Supposing, instead of having the foregoing
antithesis of spirit and matter presented to our youthful
minds, we had been taught to regard them as equally
worthy and equally wonderful; to consider them, in
fact as two opposite faces of the self-same mystery.
Supposing that in youth we had been impregnated with
the notion of the poet Goethe, instead of the notion of ]
the poet Young, looking at matter, not as brute matter, ;
but as “ the living garment of God; ” do you not think
that under these altered circumstances the law of j
Relativity might have had an outcome different from its <
present one ? Is it not probable that our repugnance to ]
the idea of primeval union between spirit and matter
might be considerably abated? Without this total :
revolution of the notions now prevalent, the Evolution
hypothesis must stand condemned; but in many pro¬
foundly thoughtful minds such a revolution has already i
taken place. They degrade neither member of the i
mysterious duality referred to; but they exalt one of ;
them from its abasement, and repeal the divorce hitherto
existing between both. In substance, if not in words, •
their position as regards the relation of spirit and matter 1
is: “ What God hath joined together let not man put 1
asunder.” And with regard to the ages of forgetfulness <
which lie between the unconscious life of the nebula and <
the conscious life of the earth, it is, they would urge, but 1
an extension of that forgetfulness which preceded the i
birth of us all. i
I have thus led you to the outer rim of speculative -
science, for beyond the nebulae scientific thought has
never ventured hitherto, and have tried to state that <
which I considered ought, in fairness, to be outspoken, j
I do not think this Evolution hypothesis is to be flouted 1
away contemptuously; I do not think it is to be de- 1
nounced as wicked. It is to be brought before the bar i
of disciplined reason, and there justified or condemned, i
Let us hearken to those who wisely support it, and to •,
those who wisely oppose it; and let us tolerate those, i
and they are many, who foolishly try to do either of 1
these things. Thevonly thing out of place in the dis- ;
cussion is dogmatism on either side. Eear not the i
Evolution hypothesis. Steady yourselves in its presence ]
upon that faith in the ultimate triumph of truth which i
was expressed by old Gamaliel when he said:—“ If it ]
be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; if it be of man, it :
will come to nought.” Under the fierce light of scientific ■
enquiry, this hypothesis is sure to be dissipated if it :
possess not a core of truth. Trust me, its existence as '
a hypothesis in the mind is quite compatible with the '
simultaneous existence of all those virtues to which the :
term Christian has been applied. It does not solve—it
does not profess to solve—the ultimate mystery of this
universe. It leaves in fact that mystery untouched.
Eor granting the nebula and its potential life, the ques¬
tion, whence came they ? would still remain to baffle
and bewilder us. At bottom, the hypothesis does
nothing more than “transport the conception of life’s
origin to an indefinitely distant past.”
Those who hold the doctrine of evolution are by no
means ignorant of the uncertainty of their data, and
they yield no more to it than a provisional assent. They
regard the nebular hypothesis as probable, and in the
utter absence of any evidence to prove the act illegal,
they extend the method of nature from the present into
the past. Here the observed uniformity of nature is
their only guide. Within the long range of physical
enquiry, they have never discerned in nature the inser¬
tion of caprice. Throughout this range the laws of
physical and intellectual continuity have run side by
side. Having thus determined the elements of their
curve in a world of observation and experiment, they
prolong that curve into an antecedent world, and accept
as probable the unbroken sequence of development from
the nebula to the present time. You never hear the
really philosophical defenders of the doctrine of Uni¬
formity speaking of impossibilities in nature. They
never say, what they are constantly charged with say¬
ing, that it is impossible for the Builder of the universe
to alter His work. Their business is not with the
possible, but the actual—not with a world which might
be, but with a world that is. This they explore with a
courage not unmixed with reverence, and according to
methods which, like the quality of a tree, are tested by
their fruits. They have but one desire—to know the
truth. They have but one fear—to believe a lie. And
j if they know the strength of science, and rely upon it
with unswerving trust, they also know the limits be¬
yond which science ceases to be strong. They best
know that questions offer themselves to thought which
science, as now prosecuted, has not even the tendency
to solve. They keep such questions open, and will not
tolerate any unlawful limitation of the horizon of then-
souls. They have as little fellowship with the atheist
who says there is no God, as with the theist who pro¬
fesses to know the mind of God. “ Two things,” said
Immanuel Kant, “ fill me with awe: the starry heavens
and the sense of moral responsibility in man.” And in
his hours of health and strength and sanity, when the
stroke of action has ceased and the pause of reflection
has set in, the scientific investigator finds himself over¬
shadowed by the same awe. Breaking contact with the
hampering details of earth, it associates him with a
power which gives fulness and tone to his existence, but
which he can neither analyse nor comprehend.
TRANCE-MEDIUMSHIP EXTRAORDINARY.
The appended paper on “ Syphilitic Insanity,” read
by Mr. H. Grainger Stewart, M.D., before the Psycho¬
logical Section of the British Medical Association at
Newcastle-on-Tyne, has been forwarded to us by Mr.
William Crookes, E.R.S., accompanied by the jocular
remark, “ Is this trance-mediumship ? ” The reply is,
“ No.” A trance medium, while speaking “ under in¬
fluence,” very commonly exhibits intellectual powers
two or three times higher than his own in his normal
state; this is not seen to be the case in the instances
quoted below. Every Friday evening for more than a
year, through the lips of Mr. Morse, trance-medium,
some “ dead ” man or other has told to public audiences,
at 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury, how and when
he died, and often what were his religious, business,
and family troubles or pleasures during life, likewise
what were his experiences when he found himself on
the other side of the grave. These communicants give
their names, also their former addresses ; a great many
of their statements have been inquired into, and in most
cases have been verified. There is nothing of this kind
to be found in the following memoir. Trance-medium-
ship, though sometimes troublesome during develop¬
ment, afterwards improves the health of the medium,
which syphilitic insanity does not do.
There are some trance-mediums through whom
“ ideas ” only can be transmitted, and not proper names
and addresses So far as we have seen, the communica¬
tions through such mediums are greatly coloured by
their own thoughts and opinions, as if a disembodied,
spirit applied the stimulus and the mediumistic instru¬
ment responded in his own way to the inspiration, just
as a muscle contracts when stimulus is applied to it by
the nerves. Such mediums also seem to vary in their
“ transparency ” to the influence ; sometimes misty and
foggy utterances come from their lips, at other times
the communications are brilliant and noble, infinitely
higher than those which the mediums could give in
their normal state. So far as we have seen, also, the
lower the spirit the more power he has over common
matter, and the more readily can he produce violent
physical manifestations; those who make disturbances
in haunted houses often require the presence of no
human medium, and are invariably of a low order. The
higher the nature of the spirit, the more does he seem to
lose his direct power over common matter. The higher
spirits can probably only influence the thoughts and
not tffe material body of the medium, so that their ideas,
in travelling through the long channel between the
thinking brain and the mouth of the medium, are vastly
coloured by the transmitting and translating instru¬
ment. Mesmerists who have never seen physical mani¬
festations, but who have seen much of what Spiritualists
call inspirational mediumship, have much ground for
disbelieving the Spiritual theory, as they very often do,
but they fall into error because they judge the whole
from the very small part which has come under their
notice.
As society very often sends murderers and other un¬
pleasant spirits into the next world, if they get a chance
to do mischief, they very likely do so, and it is really
wonderful that disagreeable experiences are not more
common at spirit-circles. We are not at all prepared
to assert that within the sphere of the bad psychological
influence of a madhouse, there may not be many of
these imperfect spirits, stimulatingjif not directly causing,
some of the sufferings described in the following nar¬
rative. This we Tcnow, that doctors, because of their
want of knowledge of incipient spirit mediumship, often
send sane people to the lunatic asylum, where the sen¬
sitives are soon driven mad in real earnest. In cases of
seeing-mediumship, medical men most frequently fall
into this error; if the very same incipient symptoms
appeared in one of the members of a spirit-circle, the
patient would not be sent to a lunatic asylum and
driven mad, but would be surrounded by good influences,
the power would be properly developed, and in time the
“ patient ” would be able to logically demonstrate to
his relatives that he can see spirits, and get accurate
messages from departed friends to prove the fact. This
is a very serious subject, and when the present race of
medical men is succeeded by another, sufficiently
advanced to investigate natural phenomena, instead of
ignoring them with the same contempt which Chinamen
often display, when asked to gaze upon a steam-engine^
or some other feature of Western civilisation—when
that day comes, the lives of the public will be better
protected than they are at present. Here is Dr. Stewart’s
narrative, which gave rise to the preceding remarks :—
“ The three following cases of syphilitic insanity, which came
under my care in the Newcastle Asylum, are, I think, worthy
of bringing before you as illustrative of the remote effects of
the taint of syphilis.
“ Case 1.—J. S., a commercial traveller, aged 36, married,
with children, was admitted into the Newcastle Asylum on
April 16th, 1868. He had fair hair, blue eyes, and fresh com¬
plexion. His bodily condition and health were indifferent.
He had led a very irregular life many years, and at one time
had suffered severely from syphilis. During the three months
before admission, he had gradually become incapable of con¬
ducting business. He now believed himself persecuted by
enemies, especially men residing at Bradford, with whom he
had had business connections. He said he heard them conspir¬
ing against him and wishing him ill. He was restless and
irritable; frequently heard voices talking with him and about
him; he understood all their plots. He slept-fairly, but awoke
much distressed, believing that he had been subjected to the
most cruel processes during his sleep.
“ After residing in the asylum for a short time, he continued
to be the subject of the most extraordinary hallucinations. He
heard voices which communicated to him the most foolish
and absurd things, all which he firmly believed. He said he
underwent nightly a kind of torture, which he called the
‘ cylinder finish,’ and which he described as an excruciating
process, by which his brains were whirled round with extreme
velocity, mixed into a pulp, and replaced in his skull just in
time for his awaking. This, he believed, was ordered by the
doctor, who knew of everything that was done to him, and had
the power of regulating the amount of his sufferings. He was
also, he said, frequently put upon the wheel and drugged during
the night; and though he really slept well, he averred that all
the time he was vividly sensitive to all the tortures which he
thought he underwent. Gradually he became extremely irri¬
table, fancied that insults were offered to him by all about him,
secluded himself from the society of his fellows, refused food,
was inclined to lie in bed, and threatened to commit suicide.
He referred to his head as the seat of his sufferings, and com¬
plained of pain at the vertex. Occasionally he was persuaded
to take the iodide of potassium in two-grain doses three times
daily, but never so continuously as to give it a fair trial.
“ In the second year of his residence in the asylum, phthisis
pulmonalis became developed, and then some improvemertt in
his general health took place. He began to occupy himself in
the joiner’s shop, making toys for his children; and his actual
sufferings seemed to obscure-the abnormal sensations which so
strongly affected him in the earlier period of his disease. Two
years after his admission, he died. No post mortem examina¬
tion was allowed by the friends.
“ Case 2.—D.T., a woman aged 60, married without children,
was admitted on April 10th, 1868. She was said to have led
a dissolute life. She was very much emaciated and unhealthy;
her nose was marked by cicatrices. She had suffered from
syphilis, and had a bad sore on the leg. The circulatory and
respiratory systems were healthy. She was of 'fair hair and
complexion, ate well, and was said to sleep well. It was
stated that she had been only a week insane.
“ On admission, she was in a state of dementia. She was per¬
fectly bewildered, and evidently could not understand the events
taking place about her. She answered very slowly any ques¬
tions that were put to her, and seemed unable to understand
when she was spoken to.
“ Shortly after admission, her mind became filled with
singular and painful delusions. She fancied herself constantly
persecuted by certain individuals, who day and night made it
their business to annoy and hurt her. This they did by
using the most ingenious machines which were specially
invented to torture. They were introduced into her body
and brain and worked by means of wheels. She averred that
they burnt her brain, drew out her inside, cast her into the
air, put their fingers into her, and so tormented her. This,
for the most part, took place in the night; but if she were
allowed to remain in bed during the day, she complained of
similar though not such severe treatment. At the same time
she heard her tormentors talking together, consulting as to
which was the most painful process they could invent. She
also heard others remonstrating with them for treating the
poor woman so cruelly. She as well saw faces which she
recognised as old neighbours, and particularly the face of her
principal tormentor, whom she supplicated to desist. The
head was referred to as the seat of the pain.
I During her residence in the Asylum, she has every
morning bitterly complained of her treatment during the
previous night; and sometimes she gets into great excitement,
and threatens to destroy herself occasionally. She refuses her
food for days together, with that intent; and once, about a
year after admission, was found by the night-nurse nearly
strangled by a garter which she had twisted round her neck.
She has often prayed the doctor to give her poison to end her
sufferings.
Feb. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
139
“ She now (August, 1870) continues to suffer from the
same or similar delusions and hallucinations. At night, when
the nurse shuts the door on her, the operations of her tor¬
mentors commence, and so they continue to persecute her
all night. She says she is placed on a table and dissected ;
that her head is opened ; and that all the time she sees and
hears her tormentors inciting each other to treat her more and
more severely. She occasionally receives hfer medical attend¬
ant with a storm of abuse, averring that he was present
during the night, and aided her tormentors. The sores on
her legs healed up under treatment by a solution of the
bichloride of mercury, 'there has been no improvement of
the mental symptoms of any duration, although she has
undergone long courses of the iodide and bromide of potassium.
The hydrate of chloral, in forty-grain doses, produces deep
and long continued sleep, and seems to relieve the symptoms
at the time; but there is no material change in the mental
state of the patient.
“ Case III.—P. H., aged 58, single, an Irish labourer, a
Roman Catholic, was admitted into the asylum on January
22nd, 1869. He had served some years in Portsmouth, and
had led a very irregular life. He has fair hair and eyes,
and is ruddy: he is blind of one eye from wound of the
cornea. He has suffered from syphilis ; but his general
health is fair. He believes that his brother was murdered in
the workhouse, and that the assassins are now after himself.
He fancies that they are constantly watching him, hiding
themselves in the ceiling and under the floors, and even sus¬
pended in mid-air over head. He heard them constantly
plotting how they may kill him. One of their favourite
modes of attack is by shooting vitriol, ammonia, and 1 black
poison ’ at him, besides using to his injury other magic and
black arts. These persecutions go on principally at night, and
the arrangements which he makes for warding them off are
worthy of remark. He secures small pieces of wood in the
day-time, by which he wedges the door of his room at night,
and places his bed so that, should anyone attempt to enter, he
must be awakened. He envelopes his head with his pillow¬
case, which drops over his face, stuffs his ears and nostrils
with cotton-wool and his mouth with a pocket handkerchief,
and thus, he believes, he keeps out any drug or vapour when
he is asleep. AIL the keyholes, ventilators, and open spaces
about the doors and shutters are also carefully covered with
blankets or sheets. It takes him more than a hour every
night to complete these arrangements, and when he lies down
under his mattrass he considers he is in circumstances of com¬
parative safety. He frequently complains of pains.in the
head and burning sensations on his skin, which he attributes
to his unseen enemies shooting poison on him. He complains
during the day, but is worse at night, and every morning
recounts some new plan of attack that his tormentors have
been attempting. He has been under treatment for eighteen
months ; but in his, as in similar cases, it is almost impossible
to carry out a system of treatment, and no improvement has
taken place in the case. He threatens to commit suicide
to put an end to his sufferings; but has never made any
actual attempt.
“ Remarks.—These cases have several characters in common :
1. They all occur on subjects who have suffered from syphilis.
2. The character of the delusion is similar. They all believe
themselves the victims of conspiracy, persecution, and cruelty
undeserved. 3. They are all subjects of hallucinations of
touch, hearing, and sight. 4. They are all suicidal, two of
them having made actual attempts on their own lives. 5.
They are all dangerous to others when under the influence of
their delusions, and were quite unsafe to be at large. 6. They
are all worst at night, which circumstance may be dwelt upon
as indicating the syphilitic nature of the disease. 7. They all
suffered severely from cephalalgia : their abnormal sensations
were in the brain. 8. The treatment produced but little
effect, and it is feared they can only be looked upon as in¬
curable ; but still, by the relief of symptoms, much of the
distressing character of the disease may be assuaged.”
SPIRITUALISM IN KILBURN.
On Monday evening, at a public meeting convened by
the Kilburn Spiritualistic Society, held in the Carlton-
hall, Carlton-road, Kilburn, Mr. A. C. Swinton read a
trance-address received through the mediumship of Mr.
J. J. Morse, in which the communicator gave the par¬
ticulars of his death, and his experiences on first enter¬
ing the world beyond the grave. The deceased was
Edward N. Dennys, a political and social reformer, and
author of “ The Alpha,” * a hook which has been much
praised by the Athenceum, Critic, Spectator, and other
periodicals, for its literary merits and deep thought.
During his life Mr. Swinton knew Mr. Dennys inti¬
mately, and the latter, who knew nothing of Spiritual¬
ism, promised the former that if it were possible for a
man to return to him after death, he would do so. Mr.
Swinton, of 5, Cam bridge-road, Kilburn, and Mr. C. W.
Pearce, of 6, Cambridge-road, Kilburn, are quite satis¬
fied that Mr. Dennys has communicated with them
several times since his death through various mediums,
and that he has conclusively proved his personal iden¬
tity. The following are portions of the statements
recently made by Mr. Dennys, and read by Mr. Swinton
to the public meeting at Kilburn:—
“ When I became conscious that physical dissolution was
near, I experienced sensations of exquisite delight. I felt as
if I were sinking into an atmosphere of indescribable happi¬
ness, which, from its intensity, gradually overpowered my
bodily senses, and caused a profound slumber. This slumber
lasted about three days, at the end of which I awoke, and
became conscious that the change called ‘ death ’ had passed
over me, and that the veil which, for more than threescore
years, had hidden the realities of existence from my sight
was removed, and for ever.
“ When I awoke, I found myself in an apartment, the like
of which I had many times pictured, but had never before
realised. It was circular in shape, having walls of a translu¬
cent substance, nearly resembling alabaster, and a bright, yet
yellow light, pervaded the whole of it. I found myself re¬
clining on a couch, formed to resemble a white lily. Floating
around me, and filling the room, was a perfume laden atmo¬
sphere, the inhalation of which gave me a new sense of being,
coursing through my veins like ethereal ether, and filling me
with joyous life : I had not, however, fully realised my new
* London: James Bums, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
condition ; it was so much like a dream that I arose from my
couch, and rubbed my eyes, and felt myself to ascertain
whether I was dreaming or awake. After some little con¬
sideration I became fully conscious of an elevation of myself
in every sense, when, quietly thinking for a while, I suddenly
observed the curtains part at the side of the couch furthest
from me, and a person of a most benevolent aspect stood in
the opening.
“ He was clothed in a long flowing robe of emerald colour,
and bright as the diamond. It was fastened round the waist
by a golden cord, with two tassels depending from the ends
thereof. His head was bare, and his long wavy hair fell in
heavy masses of gold around his shoulders.”
Dennys then gives a conversation wbicb took place
between bim and the stranger friend, who said that he,
as a spirit, had watched over Dennys, and aided him
during his earthly life. Dennys thus describes his
thoughts at the close of the conversation :—
“ I travelled backward to the scene of my first life. I felt
within the strong desire to elevate those I had left behind.
I had a clear conception that Intelligence rules all existence,
and that Intelligence suffers nothing to exist, unless it be
useful. Thus reasoning, I knew there must be some means
whereby my desire could be gratified, and I said to my
Brother—
“ ‘ How can I compass the means which I perceive must
exist? How can I approach those upon the planet whence
I came ; for I am conscious of another existence away from
that planet; because what I now behold would be impossible
upon it.’
“ He replied—‘ Come with me, my Brother, and I will intro¬
duce you to the rest of our circle ; you shall then receive a
practical exposition of how you can fulfil the animating desire
of your soul.’
“ We arose from the couch upon which we had been seated,
and passing between the curtains, which opened at our
approach, we passed onward through a corridor, at the end
of which I observed a landscape surpassing in beauty and
grandeur all that I had ever seen or conceived.
“ Before us was an open plain interspersed with trees, shrubs,
flowers, and streamlets; and away in the far distance rose up,
like undulating waves of the grand ocean, bright and verdant
mountains ; and dimly seen over their top^ was the outline of
what appeared to be a city, bathed in a Calm, subdued light.
Over our heads was a bright blue atmosphere, clear as the
noonday sky, and a spirit-sun cast its golden, mellow light
around, bathing every object in a flood of celestial glory.”
He then narrates how, in an open space beneath
some trees, he was introduced to a band of spirits, who
told him how to set to work to carry out his desire to
revisit the earth. Aided by a guide of the name of
Apoletha, he returned to the earth in this wise:—
“ I observed a small tremulous light come smoothly rolling
along : directly Apoletha saw it, he changed our course : and
all descended in an oblique direction, and by that means drew
near to the little orb, which gradually revealed to our eyes its
spiritual life; and once again I stood upon the planet earth.
But how changed was the view since my short absence,—how
dark and cloudy all things were.—the gloom being fitfully
illuminated here and there by flickering rays of spiritual
light, which, though ever struggling to expand themselves,
but seldom succeeded through the want of associated effort
among mankind. I saw the people of earth crowding hither
and thither in their search for wealth, and material reputa¬
tion, stooping down and seldom or ever rising beyond their
mouths : good and holy were many called, but they were dark
and cloudy within. I saw that' many a patient, plodding
tiller of the soil,—that many of the servants of the rich and
so-called great were in themselves brighter and purer than
their rulers : and, as I looked, tears of pity fell from me, and
deep thrills of sympathy for suffering humanity coursed
through my nature. I wept for the ignorance and misery I
saw around me. Apoletha said, * Weep not, brother ! at these
sad scenes, there is endless labour yet for thee.’ Sorrowfully,
I replied, ‘ How can I raise them now ! For too truly do I
find they have ears, but they hear not; they have eyes, but
they see not; they have understandings, but they understand
not. I cannot speak to them as I was wont: I cannot write
and distribute my views as I did on earth 1 ’ Here again I
felt my childhood’s simplicity was revealed by the reply he
made :—1 “ Ignorance is the cause of error.” You are ignorant
how to communicate with your brethren in the flesh, hence
the error into which you have fallen. ’ I felt the reproof, and
bowed myself in silence, reproved by mine own words.*
, “ This occurred in the midst of your busy city, London.
“ We now ascended from our level and passed onwards until
we found ourselves among a fresh people, where all things
were strange and new to me ; but swiftly dame the news to
my brain, ‘You are in the land of' freedom !’f Said my
guide to me, ‘ Follow 1 and I will now show you how the
immortals speak with the mortals.’
“ By a process which I will describe another time, we passed
into the house, and to an upper chamber, where, seated
around the room, were about twenty presons of both sexes.
Instantly my inner nature responded to the stream which
flowed upward from them, for they had met for the purpose of
obtaining instruction and advice from the inner or spiritual
life. Apoletha threw aside his robe, and advanced to a young
man who was sitting in the centre of the group, and, after he
had performed some manipulations around his brain, 1 ob¬
served the image of the young man rise from himself and
repose, peacefully sleeping, at a short distance; then the
Sphere around Apoletha also enveloped the body to which that
image belonged, and the ‘ medium ’ (as you would call him,
and as I learnt such were) poured forth, under Apoletha’s
complete control, a flood of instructive eloquence which was
as dew to thirsty souls. At the conclusion of the address,
mortals and immortals separated,—each refreshed and invigo¬
rated by their respective work.
“ Then Apoletha, turning to me, said, ‘ You have had suffi¬
cient for the time, Brother, we will return to our home, and
again seek the advice of our Chief and Brotherhood, as to the
best mode of procedure to ensure your success.’’
After the reading of the communication, which was
a very long one, a discussion took place; the audience
for the most part admitted the facts of Spiritualism,
but introduced the religious difficulty, and strenuously
advanced the devil theory.
* Alpha, p. 104. t America.
SPIRIT-RAPPING- IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IN TEN PAETS.—PABT EIGHT.
The following are some more of the family letters
which were published by John Wesley :—
My. sister Emily’s account to Jack.
“ About.a fortnight after the time when, as I was
told, the noises were heard, I went from my mother’s
room, who was just gone to bed, to the best chamber, to
fetch my sister Sukey’s candle. When I was there,
the windows and doors began to jar, and ring exceedingly;
and presently after I heard a sound in the kitchen, as if
a vast stone coal had been thrown down, and smashed
to pieces. I went down thither with my candle, and
found nothing more than usual; but as I was going by
the screen, something began knocking on the other side,
just even with my head. When I looked on the inside,
the knocking was on the outside of it; but as soon as I
could get round, it was at the inside again. I followed
it to and fro several times ; till at last, finding it to no
purpose, and turning about to go away, before I was
out of the room, the latch of the back-kitchen door was
lifted up many times. I opened the door and looked
out, but could see nobody. I tried to shut the door,
but it was thrust against me, and I could feel the latch,
which I held in my hand, moving upwards at the same
time. I looked out again; but finding it was labour
lost, clapped the door too, and locked it. Immediately
the latch was moved strongly up and down; but I left
it, and went up the worst stairs, from whence I heard,
as if a great stone had been thrown among the bottles
which lay under the best stairs. However I went to
bed.
“ From this time I heard it every night for two or
three weeks. It continued a month in its full majesty,
night and day. Then it intermitted a fortnight or
more, and when it began again, it knocked only on
nights, and grew less and less troublesome, till at last
it went quite away. Towards the latter end, it used
to knock on the outside of the house, and seemed
farther and farther off, till it ceased to be heard at all.”
My sister Molly’s account to Jack.
Aug. 27.
“ I have always thought it was in November, the rest
of our family think it was the 1st of December, 1716,
when Nanny Marshall, who had a bowl of butter in
her hand, ran to me, and two or three more of my
sisters, in the dining-room, and told us she had heard
several groans in the hall, as of a dying man. We
thought it was Mr. Turpine, who had the stone, and
used sometimes to come and see us. About a fortnight
after, when my sister Sukey and I were going to bed,
she told me how she was frightened in the dining-room,
the day before, by a noise, first at the folding-door, and
then overhead. I was reading at the table, and had
scarce told her I believed nothing of it, when several
knocks were given just under my feet. We both made
haste into bed; and just as we lay down, the warming-
pan by the bedside jarred and rang, as did the latch of
the door, which was lifted swiftly up and down. Pre¬
sently a great chain seemed to fall on the outside of the
door (we were in the best chamber), the door, latch,
hinges, the warming-pan, and windows jarred, and the
house shook from top to bottom.
“ A few days after, between five and six in the
evening, I was by myself in the dining-room. The
door seemed to open, though it was still shut; and
somebody walked in, in a night-gown trailing upon the
ground (nothing appearing), and seemed to go leisurely
round me. I started up, and ran upstairs to my
mother’s chamber, and told the story to her and my
sister Emily. A few nights after my father ordered
me to light him to his study. Just as he had un¬
locked it, the latch was lifted up for him. The same
(after we blew the horn) was often done to me, as well
by day as by night. Of many other things all, the family
as well as me were witnesses.
“ My father went into the nursery from .the matted
chamber, where we were, by himself, in the dark. It
knocked very loud on the press bed-head. He adjured
it to tell him why it came, but it seemed to take no
notice; at which he was very angry, spoke sharply,
called it deaf and dumb devil, and repeated his adjura¬
tion. My sisters were terribly afraid it would speak.
When he had done, it knocked his knock on the bed’s
head, so exceeding violently, as if it would break it to
shivers ; and from that time we heard nothing till near
a month after.
My Sister Sukey’s account to Jack.
“ I believed nothing of it till about a fortnight after
the first noises ; then one night I sat up on purpose to
hear it. While I was working in the best chamber,
and earnestly desiring to hear it, a knocking began
just under my feet. As I knew the room below was
locked, I was frightened, and leaped into bed with all
my clothes on. I afterwards heard, as it were, a great
chain fall, and after some time the usual noises at all
hours of the day and night. One night, hearing it
was most violent in the nursery, I resolved to lie there.
Late at night, several strong knocks were given on the
two lowest steps of the garret stairs, which were close
to the nursery door. The latch of the door then jarred,
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1871.
and seemed to be swiftly moved to and fro, and pre¬
sently began knocking about a yard within the room on
the floor. It then came gradually to sister Hetty’s bed,
who trembled strongly in her sleep. It beat very loud,
three stakes at a time, on the bed’s head. My father
came, and adjured it to speak; but it knocked on for
some time, and then removed to the room over> where
it knocked my father’s knock on the ground, as if it
would beat the house down. I had no mind to stay
longer, but got up, and went to sister Em and my
mother, who were in her room. From thence we heard
the npises again from the nursery. I proposed playing
a game at cards; but we had scarce begun, when a
knocking began under our feet. We left off playing,
and it removed back again into the nursery, where it
continued till towards morning.
THE FUTURE OE SPIRITUALISM.
The following remarks by Mrs. Emma Hardinge, as to the
present and future of Spiritualism in the United States, and
throughout the world, are here reprinted from an American
newspaper :—
“ I have looked upon these evidences of disintegration with
the regret natural to one who has laboured to form the asso¬
ciations which seem now so strangely breaking up; but I do
not regard them as the signs of decay, which our enemies
would fain believe them to be, nor yet as the evidence that
there is some radical incompetency on the part of Spiritualists
to organize, as some of our Spiritualistic teachers would
urge.
“ I am assured by those spirit friends in whose wisdom and
foresight I have confidence, that Spiritualism, unlike all other
merely human movements, will not endure corrupt and effete
atoms in its organizations, and that until the pure and vital¬
izing influences of Spiritualism shall have produced their full
effect in the reform of individual character, such individuals
may strive in vain to band each with the other into concrete
organizations. Humanity has too long been treated as a
mass whose totality constitutes the power which the few can
wield.
“ Our spirit-guides are labouring to disintegrate these masses;
deal with them separately, and when the individual is pure
enough to stand alone and recognise his own eternal responsi¬
bility, then, and then only, will he be deemed fit to become a part
of an organic movement, and an atom in the body politic of an
association. . . Until suchindividual reforms havebeeneffected,
all our associations and movements will be but temporary,
the expedients of the hour, but never suffered to crystal¬
lize into creedal unity. .. . I have frequently been invited by my
spirit-guides to reflect whether the persons who have gone out
from our midst, did not confer a far greater benefit upon ‘ the
cause ’ by their withdrawal than by their advocacy. I have
been required to answer to myself, whether the really good
and wise have ever turned back from the faith, and whether
any organisation of our ranks has been dissolved until the
action of obnoxious individuals had rendered the dissolution
absolutely necessary. My reflections on these suggestions
have only ended in the admission that we were not yet in a
condition to organize—that is, upon the high grounds of
spiritual excellence that has been presented to me as the
basis of our future action, and that until we shall become so,
a silent but irresistible spirit of disintegration will prevail
throughout our ranks. Yet, despite the sneers and scoffs of
vestry boards, philosophical associations for the conservation
of science, and ecclesiastical societies for the preservation
of ancient landmarks, our numbers increase with startling
rapidity, and isolated adherents to the spiritual faith grow up
and permeate the ranks of every other faith. .. . Besides
these words of cheer and promise, I have long been assured,
by my most trusted guides, that a period of marvellous Spiri¬
tual revivalism was at hand, and that somewhere about the
year 1875, a mighty outpouring of the spirit should be ex¬
perienced, commencing as a starting point from a field preach¬
ing in the State of New York, and rushing like the tides
of a fiery flood all over the civilised world.
“ The old and the young, the high and the low, the good and
evil, saint and sinner, wise and foolish, shall equally partake
of the psychological contagion. I am told that whilst the
manifestations of spirit presence will still be of an external
and sensuous character, that the influence and tendency will
be to awaken the religious depths of man’s nature. That the
epoch through which we have passed, having been devoted to
the production of phenomena, whose chief significance was
to demonstrate the fact of Spiritual communion, that epoch is
to be regarded only as preparatory to the higher or more
exalted Spiritualism which is to follow. I find in these pre¬
dictions no promise that a personal Messiah is to appear, or
that the egotism of special creedal faith is to be satisfied by
the endorsement of any special form of ecclesiastical belief;
but I am told that the spirit of righteousness, mercy, and
charity, will be kindled in the heart; high aspirations towards
Spiritual existences and Spiritual states of mind will be pro¬
moted. Trust in, and unity with the Great Spirit, Lord
and Creator of all, will possess the heart, and an universal
desire for | peace on earth, and goodwill to men,’ supersede
the present idle and sensuous enjoyment of 'the mere ex¬
ternal phases of spirit communion, which constitutes so large
a portion of the Spiritualism of the past twenty-two years.”
AMONG THE SWEDENBORGIANS.
NUMBEB. OITE.
Of all the religious sects, the Swedenborgians hold opinions
which are, perhaps, most in harmony with the facts demon¬
strated by Spiritualism. There are in London some four or
five places of worship for those belonging to what is called
the “New.Church.” One of them is in Devonshire-street,
Islington, not far from the well-known Roman Catholic
church. The building is of rectangular form. Its height,
if anything, exceeds the length of the body. There are no
galleries, although there is room for several: there are hardly
any pillars, and the acoustic effect is not of the best. The
chancel is separated from the body by a straight line of
railings, and inside this barrier stand the communion table,
several tastefully carved chairs, the pulpit, and a row of seats.
From a balcony within the chancel, visitors are probably per¬
mitted to watch or participate in the proceedings below.
Above the communion table is a tablet containing the com¬
mandments, in the centre of which is. written the name of
the Most High in Hebrew, and the name of Jesus in Greek
around it. Around the candelabra, each of which contains
the significant number of seven or fourteen lights, the Christ¬
mas garlands were still visible a few Sundays ago. Here and
there about the walls were to be seen crosses on intersecting
triangles. Just beneath the pulpit, a white cross was also
conspicuous, and a crown with three crosses above almost led
one to think that high church emblems were not considered
objectionable. The place could accommodate several hun¬
dred people, but at the time of our visit the congregation
counted hardly fifty. Yet the seats were comfortable, the
people obliging and very hospitable, and the service was con¬
ducted in a somewhat solemn, but iri no way unpleasing, man¬
ner. A venerable looking old gentleman, in his ample gar¬
ments, not unlike a monk of the middle ages, opened the
service by reading from a kind of prayer-book various passages.
The character of the book may be gathered from its title, and
preface/ it is called A Liturgy from the Dvvvtie Word; and
the preface begins thus, “ To produce a service in which
every believer in the Divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ could
heartily join, has been the object of this compilation, &c.”
It was observable that on the name of Jesus Christ being
read, every one present bowed devoutly, as is the custom in
some other churches. Lessons from the Old and New Testa¬
ments were also read, and a psalm was chanted from a book
entitled, “ The Psalms of David; a revised edition, pointed
for chanting and designed for the use of the New Church,
signified by the new Jerusalem in the Revelation. By order of
the General Conference.” A voluminous hymn-book, specially
compiled for the followers of the New Church, was also used
in the course of the service. Their tenets are mainly derived
from the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg, the great seer of
the last century.
The introductory portion of the service at Devonshire-street
contrasted strongly with the sentiments expressed in the ser¬
mon. The preacher was hardly a middle-aged man, and not
the pastor of the congregation. Robed in white, like all those
officiating within the precincts of the chancel, he commenced
his delivery by an extemporaneous prayer. During his sermon
he often referred to the Athanasian Creed, and to the addi¬
tions which the early creeds of the Christian Church had
undergone. He told how additions were made in favour of
priestcraft and holy churchdom, the meaning of which addi¬
tions might be construed to suit vile purposes. He said that,
with a purer meaning, these creeds might be used safely. The
ancient 'and only visible and true church established in the
wilderness, had found a resting place in Canaan, and a gor¬
geous outer case had been made to envelop the pure truths
contained within. In the place of inward spiritual grace,
burnt offerings, and rams, and goats, and bulls, were sacrificed
in the temple. But the whole institution was but the casket
in which the real pearls were safely kept. Whoso opened the
casket and found them, had really received the Divine gift
bestowed on mankind by the institution of the holy church.
Milton, tie preacher said, had glimpses of the truth, when he
spake of the millions of forms that walk the earth, both when
we wake and when we sleep. These spiritual beings, he said,
are like ourselves, only in a state more free and more simple.
We do not hear the sound of their footfalls day by day in our
streets, our workshops, or our counting-houses, but "we know
that they often whisper to us, and comfort us when deserted
by all the world besides. These evidences are the living wit¬
nesses from a land above.
The sermon lasted about three-quarters of an hour. It was
followed by a hymn, which like the rest of the music, was
somewhat monotonous, although there was no lack of material
for something better aloft among the choristers, and the organ
was a good one.
Mr. D. D. Home has reached St. Petersburg!!, and ac¬
cording to a private letter received from him a few days ago,
the Emperor of Russia had arranged to be present at one of
his stances.
Mr. J. M. Peebles.—A recent number of The American
Spiritualist, edited by Mr. J. M. Peebles and Mr. Hudson
Tuttle, announces that Mr. Peebles did not dine with Mr.
John Bright, M.P., while in England, but that his memorable
conversation with Mr. Bright about Spiritualism took place
when he called upon him in company with the poet Bailey.
The statement that the conversation took place at a dinner
was copied into English journals from a Chicago newspaper
called The Present Age, which contained a report, many
columns long, of the lecture by Mr. Peebles, in which is
narrated the conversation. The error of detail, then, rests
with The Present Age newspaper.
Spiritualism and Science.—Both on the outward and
homeward voyage of H.M.S. Urgent, with the Eclipse Expe¬
dition on board, composed of some of the leading philoso¬
phers of the day, Spiritualism was the chief subject of discus¬
sion, and some of its literature was closely examined. Several
of those on board had witnessed manifestations, so knew
the phenomena, at least, to be real. At Cadiz, the well-known
Spiritualist, Lord Lindsay, joined the ship on the homeward
voyhge, and he, as he always does, unreservedly and openly
bore testimony to the truth of the facts, and thus he
strengthened, the hands of Mr. William Crookes and others,
who had previously testified to the same effect. Lord Lindsay
obtained some good photographs of the total phase, and had
been more successful in his work with respect to the eclipse
than anybody else on board the Urgent, he having been
favoured with good weather while the sun was hidden by the
moon. On the homeward voyage, Professor Tyndall made a
series of experiments by which he has ascertained the cause of
the different colours of the sea at different places ; these
colours are caused by the variations in quantity of small solid
floating particles, held in suspension by sea-water. In a blue
or indigo sea there is little suspended matter ; in a green sea
suspended particles are more plentiful. During the past two
months a stronger interest in Spiritualism has been evinced
in the scientific world at home, and not a few leading
philosophers now desire to witness manifestations. How far
they will be able to do so, while there are scarcely any pro¬
fessional mediums in London, and while the few celebrated
non-professional mediums have so much pressure on their time,
is another question. No doubt many new investigators will
have to begin, as Mr. Crookes did, by going to see some of the
good or indifferent manifestations easily accessible to the
public, and those who thus show that they are earnest searchers
after truth, no matter where it is to be found, are sure thereby
to become acquainted with Spiritualists, and to get invitations
to private circles. Mr. Crookes first began to investigate
Spiritualism, under the impression that a little’investigation
would show that all its alleged supernatural phenomena could
be traced to known natural causes. The result has been that
he has certified the phenomena to be real, and he has done
this both in print and on board the UrgCHt; we therefore
regret that the mistaken article from Hwnan Nature, heaping
censure upon him, was reprinted a few weeks ago in the
Banner of Light, the chief paper of the American Spiritualists.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday, January 26th, a meeting of the St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists was held at the St. John’s Temperance
Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, London. The room was
crowded to excess. The proceedings began with a tea-meet¬
ing, after which Mr. J. Burns was voted into the chair, and
various speakers addressed the audience.
Mr. R. Pearce,, the secretary, said that the Association was
formed in May, 1869, and began with thirty members. Its
object was to open spiritualistic meetings free to the public,
and its work has been successful. The average number of
persons present at the seances has been thirty or thirty-five ;
forty-four stances, six lectures, and two social tea-meetings,
were held during the first year, at a total cost of about £20.
Mr. Morse gave his first public address under spirit influence
to the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists. He (Mr. Pearce)-
very much wished to see working-men’s discussions on Spiri¬
tualism in connection with the Association; he thought that
such discussions would aid the cause, and benefit the speakers
by cultivating the faculty of independent thought.
Mr. Steele said that the Association was formed in con¬
sequence of so many persons attending a sSance one Sunday
at his house, that he could not accommodate them, so he and
Mr. Woolnough resolved to originate a society, and to open a
hall for Spiritual meetings. He did not blame people for
not believing in Spiritualism, without much investigation
beforehand. When he first saw Mr. Davis, the trance-medium,
under control, he thought that he was a most deceitful old
man, speaking under the influence of chloroform (laughter).
Mrs. Hicks then sang “ The Maid of the Mill,’’ in ex¬
cellent style.
Mr. T. Shorter said that the St. John’s Association was the
oldest society of Spiritualists in London. Spiritualists are
doing nothing for the education of the young, and although
Mr. Gladstone’s Educational Act was one of the noblest and
best ever passed by the British Parliament, the work should
be supplemented by energetic action among Spiritualists.
Sunday-schools are dismal places for young children, and it
takes many long years and some pain, to get rid of the false
and narrow ideas there implanted, (hear, hear). Schools are
wanted which will delight the young, and where they will be
taught no narrow creeds, but learn about the glory and the
wisdom of the works of creation, and be taught to love God
rather than to fear Him. Many disembodied spirits are low
and undeveloped, because society has sent them into the next
world in that state ; we ought to send better beings into the
spirit w'orld, and the first step in the right direction would be
to improve the education of the young.
Miss Nisbet, of Glasgow, then gave a recitation.
Mr. J. J. Morse, medium, next tried in his normal state to
make a speech, but broke down at the beginning. He then
passed into the trance-state, when his guardian spirit spoke
through his organism, and recommended the utmost tolera¬
tion of freedom of thought among Spiritualists, who should
not quarrel because they cannot think alike on all subjects.
He said that in these eventful times many of the false institu¬
tions of the day are crumbling to the dust, and that soon nought
but the memory of them will remain ; in many places, where
error now rears its head, there shall stand the bright-eyed
daughters of truth. Men should be more kind and humble
one to another, and the lack of this spirit causes some of the
greatest sorrows of the present time.
Miss Wooderson then sang “Under the Willows she’s
Sleeping.”
Mr. Steele, of 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell, said that
he rose to speak a second time, to tell of a manifestation
which might interest the meeting. Some time since Mr. Morse
was at an evening seance at his house, and his (Mr. Steele’s)
little boy, said, “ Look, father ! Mr. Morse has two hands on
one of his arms ? ” Eleven persons were present, and saw the
additional hand, which was a small one, of wax-like delicacy,
and melted away while they gazed upon it. On another occa¬
sion, in his house, one of Mr. Morse’s feet, boot and all, was
elongated about four inches more than the other.
Mr. Morse reminded Mr. Steele that on another occasion
the spirits had made him put his hands into the coal-fire, and
with his naked fingers break to pieces a glowing coal about as
big as a wine-glass. Afterwards there was no sign of burning
on his hands.
Mr. Steele : Yes, that is true, and twenty-two persons were
in the room, ‘
Mr. Young, librarian to the association, said that the library
was free to all the members of the society.
Mr. Tunbridge said that the members of the society ought
to work hard to circulate the Spiritual periodicals, for till
Spiritualism came upj they none of them knew where they
were going to after death, and the teachings of the preachers
only put their brains in a muddle. They should, therefore, do
all they could to make known the great truth of Spiritualism.
Mr. Stokes told of manifestations witnessed in his own
family circle, such as the formation of spirit hands, and the
rising of solid objects in the air, without contact with any¬
thing visible.
Miss Nisbet then sang a few verses, after which another
communication was given through Mr. Morse. Mr. Bassett,
Mr. Freeman, Mr. Ashman, Mr. Davis, and Mr. Towns also
said a few words, after which the meeting broke up. It was
a good meeting throughout, the only drawback being the bad
ventilation of the room, which made its bad effects painfully
felt towards the close of the proceedings.
A New Medium:.—About seven or eight months ago, Mr.
Stokes and his family, of 29, Kingsdown-road, Upper Hollo¬
way, London, began to sit for Spiritual manifestations, and
the result is that Miss Kate Stokes has begun to develope into
a very remarkable medium. Tables often float in the air in
her presence in the light, and in the darkness solid objects are
carried about the room, rings are taken from the fingers of
some of the sitters, and placed on those of others, small
articles of dress are transferred from one to another, and other
manifestations are produced. Last Sunday night, in a small
room well filled with guests, a small four-legged table, at
which some of those present sat, was turned bottom upwards
in the dark, then floated high in the air over the heads of the
sitters, and was afterwards placed on its legs in the only space
at another part of the apartment where there was room for it
to stand. Spirit hands were formed and allowed themselves
to be felt by some of the strangers and others present; they
were small and of velvety softness, icy cold when they touched
some persons, warm when they touched others. Spirit voices
have begun to make themselves feebly audible at the circle,
and Miss Kate Stokes was entranced for the first time a week
ago. Last Sunday night Mr. Hayes, well known in connec¬
tion with the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, was at
Mr. Stokes’s circle, and was entranced for the first time ; he
said that the sensations were very pleasant.
Feb. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per sixth of a
column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be “ displayed" so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, Ralf-a-crown per first Jive lines or portion of
five lines, and Fowrpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines ; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lame, St. Paxil's Church-yard, London, E.C.
Cfl Ctfraspxntiienfs.
AH letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Church-yard, London, E. C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
viork o/The SPIRITUALIST, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great f reedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more Especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regu¬
larly by halfpenny post to subscribers, who remit five shillings and three¬
pence in payment to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's-churchyard, E. C. No notice will be taken of orders received unac¬
companied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
“ THE SPIRITUAL NEWS.”
“The Spiritual News,” published on the first of evert month,
PRICE ONE PENNY, IS ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH “ THE SPIRITUALIST,”
PUBLISHED ON THE FIFTEENTH OF EVERT MONTH, PRICE THREEPENCE.
There is therefore a fortnightly supply of news, at fourpence per
month. Eight copies of each of the first twelve numbers of “The
Spiritual News” will be sent free by the halfpenny post to those
WHO REMIT NINE SHILLINGS IN PAYMENT TO THE PUBLISHER, E. VST. ALLEN,
Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.
The Spiritualist is registered for transmission abroad.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1871.
THE NOMENCLATURE OF SPIEXTUALISM.
When one Spiritualistic lecturer may be heard telling
an audience that currents of electricity are always
passing up one side of the human body and down the
other; when another lecturer may be heard stating that
mediums are electro-negative individuals, whilst other
people are electro-positive, as revealed by the electro¬
meter ; and when a third is heard to state that a silk
dress should not be worn at spirit-circles, because silk
is a non-conductor of electricity, it is high time to
disseminate a little accurate knowledge on these sub¬
jects. The requisite information is given on another
page, by Mr. Yarley, an electrician of twenty-five years
standing, and one who has done as much, if not more
than any other man, to develop the electric telegraph.
The wisest course of action under present circumstances
is to abolish the words “ electricity ” and “ magnetism ”
altogether in connection with Spiritual phenomena.
Magnetism is the power which enables certain pieces of
steel to attract iron, consequently when a Spiritualist
says that strong “ magnetic powers ” are possessed by
a particular individual, one expects to see the fender
and fire-irons clinging to his feet, and the dinner knives
making desperate rushes at him across the table. In
future, whenever the aforesaid misused words are in¬
serted in any communications received by this journal,
we will alter the word tc magnetism ” to “ psycho¬
logical influence,” and the word “ magnetise ” to
“ mesmerise.” If any of our readers can suggest better
terms than these, we shall be glad to publish a dis¬
cussion on the subject.
Mrs. E. Hardinge has begun a series of Wednesday
evening lectures at Lawson’s Booms, Gower-street, which
should be well supported.
The last number of The Spiritualist had such a large
sale, in consequence of the long history it contained of “ The
Bise and Progress of Spiritualism in England,” written by
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, that we had to reset portions of it,
and print off a second edition.
la ctri).
BABY GRACE.
The following is extracted from a poem by Robert Williams Buchanan,
originally published in the St. James's Magazine, a periodical which num¬
bered many Spiritualists among its contributors:—
She had such old-fashioned and funny ways,
That we watched her pranks for days and days;
Now and then we laid her down.
Dressed in her little frilled cap and gown,
She would lie on her back in a mock repose,
Watching the flies
With her big blue eyes,
And thinking them fairies, perhaps—who knows ?
Early at eve she would prattle and smile,
Fidgetting fretfully all the while,
And leap in her mother’s arms for a kiss.
And toss and tumble that way and this,
And slowly and quietly fall and rise
With her thumb in her mouth, and the dust in her eyes,
And flutter off in a doze, and then
Flutter up with a cry again,
In the midst of our fireside talk, until
The little spirit would have its will,
And all would be beautiful, hushed and still.
Then it was prettiest far of all
To watch her asleep in her cradle small.
With one red hand crumpled under her head
And a red hand clench’d outside the bed,
And her small lips parted in pearly dew
Like a flower that opes to let odour through!
And Wife and I were so foolish and young,
So free as yet of the world’s rough weather,
That we sat and watched her, and held our tongue.
By the side of the bed, for hours together;
She and I were so young, so young,
(I was older than she by a single spring,)
And we wondered so much at the strange little thing.
So chubby, so rosy, so soft, so small,
Whom we hardly thought a baby at all ;
And we felt so full of our joyful store
That the heart grew faint, and the eyes ran o’er.
That the little baby, our only pride,
By the mist of our tears was magnified,
And became a sunbeam to shine at the door,
And be a beacon to rich and poor I
Besides, you know,
We loved her so,
That we loved each other so much the more.
* * * *
When Baby Grace had been bom a year,
She clung round our necks as a scared bird clings,
But she never grew wiser in worldly things;
And do as we might, we could barely teach
Her lips to prattle our human speech;
And her face in its tenderness wore a shade,
Which seemed like a shadow the angels had made
To keep out the world with its want and sin,
And conceal the bright
Spiritual light
Consuming the roots of the life within.
Then Wife and I in dull amaze
Looked at each other with homeless gaze;
And we felt that the beautiful music we heard.
In the fluttering wings of our tiny bird,
Was a melody from the soundless sea
Of eternity,
Calling her back in an angel’s name
To the wondrous silence from which she came.
Still so helpless and still so small
It seemed she would never grow big and tall.
(Just a mere, baby perhaps, like the rest,
Yet more a baby when cherished the best.)
She would lie for hours without prattle or moan.
She would lie for hours alone, alone,
With her open mouth and her great blue eyes,
Looking so wise,
And deaf, quite deaf, to our sighs and tears!
And we knew of a sudden that vagrant gleams
From Heaven were coaxing her back in dreams.
And we knew that the music was in her ears.
Then Baby Grace
. With her pale sweet face
Went away from our dwelling-place;
Like a tiny flower with the cold dew pearled,
Thin faded leaves o’er a wee heart furled,
And honey-sweets in the heart upcurled.
She went, and we
(Being young) could see
No light at all in the whole wide world.
Baby Grace was so dear, so dear,
So palpable to us, so helpless and small,
And she clung unto us so near, so near,
That we never thought we could lose her at all.
We were so foolish and young, that we
Deemed her a little one meant to be
The ornament of a mother’s knee—
Made to cling to a mother’s dress,
And never grow bigger and never grow less;
Made to cling in a yearning holy
To the roots of the heart and keep them lowly
So dear, so dear, that when Baby died,
And left a blank at the ingleside,
We hid our faces from God and cried,
And could not be patient however we tried
Then Baby was wrapped in a little white dress;
And a little white cap was placed on her head.
And she looked so sweet in her holiness,
That we could not believe she was really dead,
But fancied her deep
In a baby sleep,
Ready, just ready, to go to bed!
And they took her away with her sweet wee face.
And a lamp went out in our dwelling-place,
And we sat in the darkness, father and mother,
Lorn and bereaven.
Weeping and clinging to one another,
Because our Baby had gone to Heaven.
Wife and I were so young, so young,
That closer and closer in tears we clung;
So careless quite of the world’s cold scorn,
That we took the clothes that Baby had worn,
And laid them by in a secret place,
To mind us ever of Baby Grace;
And now and then, when our hearts grow sore,
And hard in a world of follies and crimes,
We look at the clothes our little one wore,
And they make us humbler a hundred times!
And 'tis something at least in a world so drear,
To know that an angel has once been here!
Though the light has gone from the snowy brow,
It is sweet to keep a token or two
Of our dear little Baby with eyes of blue—
For we feel so weary without her now.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten.—It will no doubt be
gratifying intelligence to the Spiritualistic public of America,
to learn that it is the intention of Mr. and Mrs. Britten to
take up their permanent residence in this country. In a
private note from this eminent lecturer and author, we are
informed that the deepest interest is manifested in the
Spiritual philosophy in London, and indeed throughout the
whole country. She has spoken every Sunday to houses so
crowded, that she was obliged to leave the Cavendish Booms,
where Bro. Peebles lectured, for more spacious quarters in the
Cleveland Assembly Booms; but even that large hall was
insufficient for her audiences. She adds, “ We have here in
London many magnificent physical mediums and wonderful
manifestations.” This lady has done immense work in be¬
half of the cause, and has the blessings of all true Spiritualists
on this side of the Atlantic.—Banner of Light.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinion s
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE DIFFICULTIES OF INVESTIGATORS.
Sir,—In the month of May last I took the liberty of asking
you a few questions concerning Spiritualism which you kindly
answered for me. I am now induced to trouble you again.
For some time I continued to read and think over the evidence
brought forward in its favour, and without any personal ex¬
perience could not but feel that the subject deserved honest
investigation. I then attempted to interest a relative at a
distance who seemed to me likely to possess medial powers,
but who felt and expressed a very strong dislike and contempt
for the “ superstition,’’ as I myself had done not long before.
At last she consented to examine the evidence, and a short
time back became sufficiently interested to sit alone for
manifestations. Nothing worth mentioning occurred, but
quite sufficient to induce her to continue. Soon. she inci¬
dentally heard that a friend living in the neighbourhood had
once joined a circle. She questioned her, and they agreed
to sit together. I send you the result in her own words, and
only adding two or three,notes and queries :—
“ It was about three o’clock in the afternoon when we placed our hands
on the table. In a few minutes we felt those strange vibrations, then the
electric shocks, faint at first, but gradually growing stronger. In a quarter
of an hour there was a slight movement, then another, and another, and
then the table moved so much that we had to rise. Presently we were
walking round and round, soon running, and fast too. Then the table
shook as it turned. This continued with intervals of quiet for about half
an hour, when I said to Louisa, ‘ I am giddy; I Wish it would turn the
other way.’ It immediately stopped, and then turned in the direction I men¬
tioned; but as it shook very much, Louisa said : ‘ I wish it would go round
quietly,’ it went at once gently and without one shake. I then addressed the
table. I asked it to shake—to go slowly—quickly—now this way—now that
—and it always did as I wished at once. I asked it to lift up one of its
legs, but this it could not or would not do. At last we were fairly tired,
and sitting down we declared that we would move no more. We had
considerable trouble to hold back the table, and more to make it under¬
stand that we wished to, question it. In time it seemed to comprehend our
wishes; and when answers were obtained more easily, I asked for the
name, and repeated the alphabet over and over. These letters were shaken
out,
OURBGALBDU
We could make nothing of them, and said' so. The table grew unmanage¬
able ; we had to rise and let it spin round. Then came ‘ A F K N.’ I said,
‘Spirit, we cannot understand you: do try again.’ I asked a number of
questions, and found that it was my sister who wished to communicate.
‘ Try to spell your name right then,’ I said, and it was given qujte correctly.
To test her, I asked some thirty questions; some relating to her last illness,
and the time of her departure, and some relating to particulars known only
to myself. I also asked her age, the time she had been in the spirit world,
&c. Of all these questions only two were answered incorrectly. Her age '
at departure was nineteen, and she has been away eight years, making
together twenty-seven. Twenty-six, instead of twenty-seven, was given as
her age, and her birthday was wrong by one day. The former of these
errors was, however, corrected by the two answers given to the two subse¬
quent questions. Although my questions could only be answered by ‘ yes ’ or
‘ no,’ I put them in such a way that my voice should not betray the right
answer. As question after question was answered correctly, some instantly,
some after a pause, some joyfully, I felt that I was in actual communication
with my sister, and I longed to have another conversation speedily. I
asked,‘Will you come again, soon?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘To-night?” ‘No.’ We sat
again that night and she did not come.
“ Once before Louisa and I had a stance together. Then, although we
felt strong vibrations and electric shocks, the only results were a few tilts
and shakes. Df course you expect me to say that I am completely con¬
vinced. I was for three days, then my old doubts returned. I sit often
alone, and obtain tilts in any direction I wish; but I suspect myself of
causing them, because I feel my hands so much drawn about. The theory
of ‘unconscious muscular action’ haunts me, and I want to know how
much it can do when connected with the will. The table seldom moves
contrary to my will I think taps would be so much more satisfactory; I
askfor them again and again, but as yet no one decided tap has come.—AT.”
It is right to add that the second medium hardly knew my
relative had lost a sister, certainly knew almost nothing about
her.
1. Can you explain the galvanic shocks ? On one occasion
they were so violent as almost to cause convulsion, and my
friend then sitting alone deemed it prudent—indeed, was
obliged to break off th.e.seance.
2. Can you account for the failure of the first and second
attempts to spell out the name, and the success of the third
after the medium had learned that her sister mas trying to
communicate ? This needs further investigation.
Being too late for your issue of January 15,1 continue my
narrative in a more complete form for February—summarising
the results of my friend’s seances, as contained in her letter.—
January 3rd. The two mediums sat together for the second
time, and the movements were more powerful, the table
literally walking about the room, and lifting two legs to avoid
a chair. An attempt to obtain a message resulted only in the
following, which strongly resembles the telegrams we used to
receive from India—?* A hope ebeg did if fead came ekaim.’’
The most noteworthy circumstance attending it was that the
table began spontaneously to signal “ no ” by one tilt, instead
of remaining still as had been agreed on. The motions were-
somewhat different from those at the last seance, and led to the-
belief that the same power was not at work. The name was-,
therefore asked for, and that of a sister of the other medium,
C H , was given, who left this world 20 years ago at
the age of two years only. A number of questions were asked
and correctly answered. The replies to most, if not to all, being-
known at the time. In order completely to remove all possi¬
bility of deception, in spite of the perfect confidence she felt
in the other medium, my friend chose favourable weather on
January 9th for sitting alone. The name of her own sister,.
A. T., was again given, and a few questions so answered as to
show one of two things, either an acquaintance with the family
which only a sister would be likely to possess, or a power of '
reading off the medium’s thoughts at the moment. To eliminate-
the last she asked—” Can you see me ? ” “ Yes.” “ Can yon.
let me see you?” “Yes.” “Now?” “Yes.” The table-
immediately moved quickly away across the room, avoiding:
obstacles, got itself on the hearth-rug, and stopped right under
A’s likeness which hangs on the wall. She says, “ I could ask
no more. I was confounded. I said good-bye, and left.”
You will see that if the answers are to be of any service at
the moment, they must be known to the medium so as not to
need subsequent verification. Thus thought-reading can hardly
be excluded in these circumstances. At the same time to be
compelled to guard against such an event is really to yield the
chief point of the Spiritual theory. The only alternative seems
to me to lie in a resort to the hypothesis of the dual nature of
the mind, and to suppose the disembodied part (jf I may so
call it), the unconscious half Jo be capable of acting objectively
upon the conscious and embodied one. Even this, however, is
only a partial defence, as a subsequent experiment will show.
At the next seance, on January 10th, after a number of ques¬
tions had been answered, the following occurred:—“ Have you
a message ? ” “ No.” “Not one word ? ” “Yes, Chuffey.”
Beaders of Dickens will recognise the name of Anthony
Chuzzlewit’s old clerk which flashed into the medium’s mind
after the first two letters had been signalled, and led to the
question—“ Do you ever put your thoughts into my mind ? ”
the reply to which was “ Yes.” “ Then you heard me reading
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1871.
Martin Chuzzlewit aloud last night? ” “ Yes.” “ Could you
speak through me ? ” “No.” “Could you use my hand to
write ? ” “ Yes.” Holding the pencil in her left hand the
medium sat and waited passively. In a few minutes three or
four legible words were written, and her sister’s name signed
above and below.
On January 17, 1871, the two mediums sat together for the
third time, and C H was again announced. The ad¬
ditional power seemed to render the signalling easier, and a
communication really startling in its minuteness and earthli-
ness was made. It consisted of a circumstance related by the
communicating spirit to her sister, one of the mediums present,
and alleged to have occurred to the mother of both, 17 years
before, at a time when the former was only two years old, and
three years after the latter had left this life.
Neither of them, therefore, could have the slightest know¬
ledge of it, and my friend, the other medium, having but
recently become acquainted with the family, was of course in
equal ignorance. As may be expected, it is impossible, after the
lapse of so many years at once to verify every part of the story
without leading to the natural query, “ How did you hear
about it ? ” This we are anxious to avoid. So far as we have
inquired, it has proved correct; indeed, it bears on its face
such marks of accuracy that doubt is more difficult than belie®.
I would give it at length but for this want of full verification.
The following, which took place at the next seance, January
22, when my friend sat alone and in the dark, is not open to the
same objection. Her sister announced herself, and after a
variety of questions and answers the following colloquy took
place. “ Do you often see A?*” naming another sister living
some 400 miles away. “ Yes.” “ Where is she now ” “ At
B ” “How many days since you saw her?” “Two.”
“ What time ? ” “ Friday evening, at 8 o’clock.’’ “ What was
she doing?” “Practising.” “Practising what?” “Men¬
delssohn.” “ What of Mendelssohn ? ” “ Songs without
Words.” “ Which book ? ” “ First.” “ Which number ?”
“ First.” “ Was she alone ? ” “ Yes.’! A letter from
B, in answer to enquiries, confirmed the truth of every
part of this, except the number of the song, which the
writer, not expecting to be questioned about it, had for*,
gotten. She also stated that during the hour of practice,
which was at a very unusual time of day for her, she had
called to mind the beauty and delicacy of touch which cha¬
racterized the playing of her departed sister, and had longed
to possess the same. The medium adds that she should never
have guessed the answer, for her sister left her “ Lieder ” at
home. Thought-reading fails here to explain the occurrence.
Clairvoyance (far sight) may do it, but would be as much
beset with difficulties as the duality of min'd. A second and
more successful attempt at writing was also made at this
seance. Our experience now assumes a slightly different
phase, not less unimportant, but less uniformly in one
direction. We were anxious to .obtain the presence of
a spirit intimately known to us both, and on whom, if
once identified with absolute certainty, we should rely with
perfect confidence. At a sitting on January 29th, the,
movements of the table were observed to be rather un¬
usual, and in answer to a question, the desired name was
given, and a number of answers obtained. Some of these
were not of a nature to test the identity, and the answers to
others were known to the medium. But a few were not so
known, and they are of two kinds. From previous know¬
ledge, the medium might guess the replies to some, and these
were tolerably correct, but of the rest only two or three out
of the whole were rightly answered. This was a complete
puzzle.
On February 1st, by an appointment made at the previous
stance, my friend sat alone. Again the movements were un¬
like those of her usual manifestations. Questions elicited the
name of Frank Lymly Jones, who stated himself to be a
Welshman, of Merionethshire, and to have left this life forty
years ago, at the age of twelve months. His communications
being trivial, and some of them apparently untrue, the sitting
was not continued, though the movements were powerful. In
order to apply a severe test of the identity in case the wish
for name should be again given, I forwarded, at my friend’s
request, a list of questions, the answers to many of which she
could neither know nor guess. After receiving the name at a
stance, on February 2nd, she obtained replies, and has sent
them to him. As in the previous instance, all she knew are
rightly given, all she could guess are given as she might or
did express, and all others are quite wrong. This is where we
stand at present. “ We falter where we firmly trod.” As you
may imagine it is baffling, and were it not for previous results
of an opposite kind would be disheartening. But in a scien¬
tific investigation twenty failures do not invalidate a single
success, though they must lead to a keener search for their
cause.
Can you or any of your readers furnish me with hints
toward the solution of the various difficulties I have men¬
tioned ? It is possible that the errors of the answers in the
last seance may be owing to personation, in which case to
give the reply, “I do not know,” would lead to instant
detection.
Were not your correspondence columns marked by a spirit
of fair investigation, and a regard for truth alone, instead of
being devoted to the advancement of a particular set of
opinions, I should hesitate to send you a letter ending as does
this. I give you my word for its truthfulness. For the sake
of brevity and clearness, I have employed throughout the
phraseology of Spiritualism. In the search for truth no objec¬
tion can be raised against the adoption of an hypothesis, if
care be taken to remember that, however probable, it is not
yet proven. In this way the chemist avails himself with ad¬
vantage of Dalton's Atomic Theory, and the Theory of Types,
and the naturalist deals in like manner with Lamarck’s Trans¬
mutation by Development, and with Darwin’s Natural Selec¬
tion. Hypothesis does not always lead directly to truth, but
it often serves to show where truth is not.
I must apologise in conclusion for the length which this
letter has reached. B. A., B. Sc., London.
[As there are so few developed mediums in the whole of the United
Kingdom, the experience of any one observer must of necessity be limited,
so if those who can give information and advice on the points raised in the
above communication, will send us some brief letters for publication, the
accumulated experience will be interesting and useful. It is a common
thing for mediums to receive satisfactory communications at first, and then
for a time to get unreliable messages. Great care should be taken to sur¬
round a new medium with none but good influences, and people of doubtful
character, who may be supposed to be surrounded by unpleasant spirits,
should not be invited to sit with them at a spirit-circle, as their presence is
almost sure to subject the sensitive for some days or even weeks, more or
less to the influence of invisible beings whose close companionship is unde¬
sirable. A well-developed medium who uses the powers conferred upon
him for good purposes, seems to be more protected from such influences.
If A. T. continues her sittings, she will probably find that sometimes solid
objects will move about in her presence without being touched by her or
anybody else, and facts like these effectually quench the “unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Recently in Edinburgh some investigators ob¬
tained tilts, while the medium alone touched the table, and sat ina chair
on the top of it.—Ed.]
DR. GULLY’S EXPEBIENCES IK SPIRITUALISM:.
Sir,—In the number of your periodical for January, in the
course of a report of Mr. Coleman’s lecture on Spiritualism,
the lecturer is made to say that “ Dr. Gully and Dr. Wilson
had previously been materialists; ” that is, previous to Mr.
Coleman’s visit to Malvern with the Marshalls. As far as
I am concerned this is not a correct statement. More than
a year before Mr. Coleman came to this place I had been at
seances and witnessed spirit phenomena ; and I dare say that
I had studied the Swedenborgian world of spirits several
years before Mr. Coleman’s attention had been called to it.
At no time of life was I a believer in the self-action of
matter; and I can recall no period of it in which I was not a
believer in the near presence and influence of the spirits of the
departed,—certainly, long before the subject of Spiritualism
was brought forward,—so that I very soon understood' and
appreciated the facts which constituted that subject. And a
wondrous quantity of pity and abuse has been bestowed on
me for my spiritual belief ’ And a large pity do I in return feel
for the ignorant donors !
Malvern, 3rd February, 1871. J. M. Gully.
TEST MEDIUMiSHIP.
Sir,—The following may be interesting to some of your
readers:—
On the 24th of December last, in the evening, at a circle
consisting of Mr. Bird (medium, of 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton), my wife, and myself, on indications of spirit pre¬
sence being given, we found, on enquiry, that one calling him¬
self a relative of purs, who passed away a few years since,
and often communicates with us, desired to say something.
We were then informed by him that a cousin of mine was
dying ; and on asking in how many days we might expect,
the event (we knew he had been unwell for some months, but
the medium did not) we were told—“ Not days hut howrs,'’
and the number of hours given would terminate in the next
morning. In the course of a post or two we received a letter.
and card stating that W G , our cousin, departed this
life on the morning of the 25th as predicted. The communi¬
cating spirit also said he would be with him as he passed into
the spirit world.
A few days since a lady coming up from the country to
spend a few days with us desired to sit with Mr. Bird for a
test as to spirit identity, and oh doing so her deceased
husband’s name was given, which was different from that by
which the lady herself was known, as she had been again
married, of which circumstance the medium knew nothing.
On the number of years he had been in the spirit world being
asked, he gave a number which was said to be incorrect by the
lady; but the spirit was emphatic that he was right and she
was wrong. After the seance was over, in order to convince
us of the error made, the lady produced evidence which proved
that she was in error and the spirit right. There was a differ¬
ence of two years between them.
Joseph Freemak,
President of the Brixton Society
Jan. 27, 1871. of Spiritualists.
THE AUTHEKTICITY OP RECORDS OP SPIRITUAL
MAKIPESTATIOKS.
Sir,—Pray allow me to say say that I think your valuable
monthly journal might be even more so if it were more open
to the anonymous; which might be acknowledged as such,
and still used if worthy and probable. Great and valuable
truths may possibly sometimes come from sensitive persons
who shrink from personal notoriety, or to whom, in a domestic
or social point of view, the publication of their names, even
at seances, would be fatal to their peace—ladies, especially.
And there are some who dare not speak of personal manifes¬
tations to their dearest friends, and in that case might hesitate
also to give their names to even the privacy of an editor. We
may remember that a person whp is sensitive on one point is
sensitive on another, and it is the sensitives who are the best
mediums, and often mediums in spite of themselves. Honour,
however, to all those who have come forward openly and borne
the finger of scorn without rejoicing at the notoriety 1 Some
persons are, however, from constitution or position, or both,
more able to publish themselves than others.
I have watched the phases of Spiritualism long enough, to
find some who run open mouthed into the phenomena, be¬
lieving every spirit and chronicling all their observations,
draw back when they found that they had been unable to
separate the dross from the gold, while others, who were
diffident at first, have found the gold and gradually come
forward to acknowledge it. It is remarkable that one man
who used to go secretly to Jesus for fear of the Jews, and
another who visited him by night for the same cause, were
the only two men who stood by Him to the end, when all those
who had openly professed Him from the beginning either for¬
sook Him or denied Him when danger was at hand.
W. R. Tomlinsok.
[This letter contains some reasonable suggestions. Under very special
circumstances we might occasionally publish some anonymous particulars
about manifestations, on condition that permission be given us by the writers
to furnish their names and addresses to private inquirers who ask for the
same. Anonymous statements about such extraordinary phenomena as
Spiritual manifestations have no weight with the general public. We
cannot publish any letter without knowing the name and address of the
writer.—Ed.]
SPIRITUAL MAHIFESTATIOKS.
Sir,—On the evening of Wednesday, December 7th, a few
friends met by spirit direction to hold a seance at the house of
Mr. Everitt, Pentonville. The company consisted of nine
well-known Spiritualists, some of them eminent mediums.
Long before we arranged ourselves for the circle-raps were
heard in and around the room, and the heavy telescopic
dining table moved and tilted in answer to our many questions,
that, too, without mortal contact.
As soon as we had taken our places our spirit friends gave-
out a portion of Scripture to be read, Rev. chap. 1st. to the
10th verse ; one of the company then read and afterwards en¬
gaged in prayer, while the raps still continued to accompany
the proceedings. The light was lowered and they indicated
by raps that they wished us to talk, in order to get into a pas¬
sive frame of mind. Scarce had the conversation begun, when
a flap, flap, flapping sound was heard over our heads, and
something appeared to descend from the roof and fall on the
table near to a gentleman, and evidently intended for him. A
light was immediately struck, and there, to the surprise of all,
lay a book 16Jin. long by 13fin. broad. Strange to say the sub¬
ject of it was on the opening of the Seven Seals, and quite in
harmony with the chapter previously read. I may here state
that this book was presented to Mrs. Everitt six months ago
by Mr. H. (the gentlemen to whom it fell on descending), who,
when he gave the book, remarked that, as it had such a broad
margin he would like the spirits to give some direct writing
in it some day. No more being thought of it, Mrs. Everitt put
the book, four or five months ago, into a drawer in a room
above, and it had never been removed therefrom till brought
by the spirits into the closed room where we held the seance.
A lady seer present said she saw an Indian spirit on the
vacant chair to the left of the medium; the chair was instantly
drawn up to the table, then the spirit seemed to rise up higher
and higher, till she could see his head go through the ceiling,
as if to impress her how the book was brought from the room
above, and to show that the roof, or,whatever me term matter,
was no obstruction to spirits. The chair began to move with
great force, and pressed close up to an elderly lady near it;
the seer then described another spirit in it whom .she knew to
be a son of the lady, and he was trying to caress his “ Dear
Mother.”
After the book had been examined by several persons, and
the fact ascertained that there was no writing on any of the
broad margins of its few pages, the light was put out, and in¬
stantly we heard the leaves of the book turned over and the
direct writing going on with great rapidity; the time was
counted, five seconds—alight struck—and there on the margin
of the book, on four different pages and exactly opposite each
illustration (first of the white horse, then of the red horse, the
black horse, and the pale horse) was written a communica¬
tion on each severally, and in all seventy-four words.
Light was again extinguished, and again the direct spirit¬
writing as before. On a half-sheet of note paper, initialled by
H. N., of Glasgow, was written an account of what the spirit-
friends think of the nature and attributes of the Deity (a most
excellen t paper, which no doubt will be published at some future
time), concluding with four lines in Latin verse, being 340
words in four seconds.
Again, our lady seer saw another Indian approach our
circle. One of the company expressed his surprise that the
Indian should seek to communicate so much with the white
man. The medium gave in reply a short but most eloquent
inspirational defence of the poor Red Indian, saying that the
white man. came, as a professed Christian, with the Bible in one
hand and the sword in the other, to teach them in brotherly
love and charity the love of God. With might on their side,
they drove the Indian from his wife, his wigwam, and his
native land, and even at the point of the sword drove him to
death itself, so under the cloak of religion did the white man
persecute his brother; but the great Almighty Spirit of all saw
this evil and oppression. Now, the Indian, though the hum¬
blest in the Kingdom of Heaven, He hath chosen to be the
messenger of love and blessing to the white man ; thereby to
heap coals of fire on his enemy’s head. Once more the light was
lowered, and we had the most delicious of perfumes wafted from
time to time around us, then came the spirit-light in dazzling
brightness. I may here state that I have had the pleasure of
being present at several stances lately, where the lights were
far from being the least interesting of the phenomena pro¬
duced, but never have I witnessed them so beautifully bright
and luminous, as at the stance of which I now speak. They
appeared first as a radiant star, then gradually faded and
expanded into a light spirit form or outline. In one a face
was distinctly seen.
After a short interval we sat again, and the easy chair
on the right of the medium was drawn up close to the
table by an invisible power. In it sat our spirit-friend John
Watt, and behind him was seen Benjamin Franklin with a
long tube of light in his hand, and he seemed to be trying to
connect the circle with a ring of light. During this time
John Watt had lifted the tube from the table to the ceiling,
then he spoke to one or another of the company in his usual
kind, affable way, which makes the sound of his voice ever
welcome to those who have once heard it. With many kind
greetings to all he bade us “ Good night.” So ended a most
memorable evening with our dear spirit friends.
Trongate, Glasgow. Marioh Nisbet.
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME.
Sir,—On Friday evening, Jan. 6th, at my brother’s house,
we had a most delightful sitting with Mr. and Mrs. Everitt,
who were spending a few hours with us.
With the exception of Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, the circle
formed was exclusively confined to our own family—Mr. and
Mrs. M. T., their three elder children, our brother, Mr. R. M. T.,
with his eldest little boy, and myself. It was as a great treat
that the children were allowed to join our stance during the
first part of the evening. They, like all children, show great
signs of mediumship, but their parents are anxious to suppress
rather than to encourage its development whilst they are so
young. At the same time, seeing as they do the evident good
result of the spirit communion between our little group in the
spirit home, and their little brothers and sisters here, they
feel it is a good gift from our lovingly heavenly Father, to be
accepted gratefully and used cautiously, but above all prayer¬
fully. We had no sooner taken our seats round the tea-table
than raps were given. Some were loud and distinct; others
softer, and like numbers of little fingers tapping, this being
the signal of the presence of our little group. Then came
most peculiar grating and rubbing noises (as though from
the inside of the top of the table), resembling the sounds
proceeding from a carpenter’s shop.
Later in the evening this manifestation was given more
completely ; the sounds produced by every variety of tool
used by a carpenter were imitated most accurately, and as
soon as our desire for each imitation was expressed.
This form of manifestation purports to come from the
spirit of one whom Mrs. Everitt knew intimately whilst on
earth, and who was, I believe, the means of inducing her first
to look into the subject of Spiritualism. He was a carpenter, and
therefore chooses this singular way of proving his identity to
his friends. I know well many sceptics will ask jeeringly of
what use is such a manifestation ? Surely anything that can
so clearly prove the presence of an unseen intelligence, that
can thus hear, enter into, and reply to, our conversation, must
be of inestimable value.
As soon as the tea was removed, and the room prepared for
the seance by the screening of the fire-light, &c., we sat
round the table again. A few slight alterations in the posi¬
tion of two or three present was made at the request of our
spirit friends, who made known their wishes by raps in reply
to Mr. Everitt’s questions. When we were all placed properly
we were directed to two most suitable passages of Scripture,
and M. T. was desired to offer prayer. A little lively singing
followed, and then “ lights out ” was spelt through the raps.
Very soon a refreshingly cool, but soft and scented breeze
was felt by all present. “Annie Blower,”. Mrs. Everitt’s
guardian spirit, always thus announces her presence. Not
only was the dining-room in which we were all! assembled
completely permeated with the most delicious and varied
perfumes, but also the adjoining drawing-room was filled.
Feb. M 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
■with them. Then came the most lovely spirit lights, and as
the little ones joined heartily in singing Leslie’s beautiful
little song, “ Twinkle, twinkle, little star ” (which is an
especial favourite with our spirit group), the bright little
stars floated all over the room, waving gracefully in time to
the music, then darting joyously to greet each one present,
and thus, in every possible way, proving to us that they were
the visible signs of the presence of our loved spirit group.
At the request of the children, bright rocket-like lights rose
from the centre of the table, and after darting up for some
distance, fell in perfect imitation of a rocket.
I asked mama and papa to give me a “ double star.” Im¬
mediately a bright light (the size of a walnut) rose close up
before me, and dividing itself, formed two complete stars.
M. T. asked for a signal light from our dear grandpapa (he
occasionally writes messages through M.’s hand, and has been
described accurately by John Watt, and always as standing
with his hand on M.’s shoulder. Directly the request was
made, a bright, joyous, and most characteristic sign was given
In a very short time “ John Watt ” came, announcing his
approval by the raps peculiar to himself, somewhat resembling
the galloping of a horse. They seemed to us to begin in
the far distance, and gradually to come near, until his pre¬
sence was known by the sudden raising of the paper tube
through which he speaks, and which was placed in the centre
of the table ready for him. The two servants afterwards
told me that just at this time, as they were occupied preparing
the supper table in the drawing-room, they heard a peculiar
noise as though it was out in the garden ; it came gradually
louder and nearer, and passing through the room on its way
to our circle, shook the whole room with a strong vibration.
“John” usually comes in rather a sudden, startling manner,
but this evening, on account of the children, whom he was
most anxious not to frighten, he came very gently, and quietly
raising the tube, rubbed it over my head and shoulders, then
going to Mrs. Everitt, and to Mrs. T. (who was sitting opposite
to me, Mrs. Everitt being between us) he did the same, “ to
gain power,’’ as he said.
It is not possible to give any adequate idea of the delight
that is borne in upon us all by the presence of this good
spirit, who can in audible voice bring us news of our spirit
home, and words of greeting from our loved Ones !
R. M. T. remarked truly that there is an indefinable charm
in his presence, that he evidently possesses the cultured mind
of a true poet; that his “ sweet gentleness,” combined with
his deep reverence for all high and holy knowledge, proves
his sphere to be high and elevating.
Some days before our seance, as I was sitting alone and
thinking over some matters in connexion with our Spiritual
experiences, upon which I wished advice, I begged mama to
come to me this evening and give John Watt a message,
answering decidedly some questions I put to her then. I said,
P Give me this as a test.” This circumstance I had not named
to anyone.
As soon as John bad greeted us all, he turned to me, say¬
ing, “ What do you want to say to me I said, “ Will you
ask mama for a message for us ?” “ What?’’ he said, quizzi¬
cally—“you want a test!" Then, in a sweet earnest tone,
he proceeded to give me a long and beautiful message from
mama, answering in every particular all my questions. I was
greatly delighted, and exclaimed, “ This is indeed a delightful
test ? Is it not ?” “ Yes,” he replied, “ that is one. But she
also desires me to say that she tried to make herself visible to
you on Christmas-day, when she was standing by the Christ¬
mas tree.” These words were delightfully corroborative of
the truth of our experiences. On Christmas-day, in the dim
twilight, I was sitting in the drawing-room with Teddy.
Suddenly, looking towards the Christmas-tree, which was
standing ready for the next day’s family party, in the far
corner of the room, he said, “ I believe I see a spirit! Yes 1
I’m sure I do ! It’s a beautiful female figure, all in white,
with flounces round the skirt. She is pouring something over
the tree, and looking towards us.” At this moment Ernest
came running in, and before we had had time to speak a
word, he too looked towards the tree and said, “ I guess you
see a spirit. I do. Such a beauty. She’s throwing flowers
over the tree.” I said, “ Teddy says there axe flounces on the
skirt.” “ I don’t see flounces,” he answered, “ but I see rows
of flowers.” I now addressed the spirit—“Are you mama ?
If so, will you bow your head ?” Immediately the children
saw the spirit "bow decidedly, and smile upon us. In the
evening, by spirit writing, I was told that, “ As the Christmas
tree is the focus of your joy to-morrow, so it was that I, your
loving mother, showed myself there to the two children.”
The last few days the children have put a stocking at the
foot of their bed “ for the spirits to put something in.” The
first morning it was found tightly tied to the bed-post, nothing
in it. One morning a cough lozenge was there, evidently
removed from a box standing in the room. But two or three
times they have seen grapes, or plums, on golden stalks. We
asked “ John Watt ” the meaning of this. He replied, “They
are symbolical fruits of wisdom and goodness.” Ernest said,
“ Why may we not take them ? When we try to touch them
there is nothing?” John Watt replied, “It’s to teach you
not to be discouraged. When any good thing you think to
grasp eludes your touch, try again.”
Much interesting conversation passed, but all at once John
said, “ I must go now, its eight o’clock, and time for all
children to go to bed,” bidding us a kind good night. He
then threw the tube at Franky’s head (much to his delight),
and left. When the candles were lighted, we found the clock
on the point of striking eight.
As soon as supper was over, and the children were safely in
bed, we resumed our seance. Six only were now present—
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr. and Mrs. M. T., Mr. R. M. T., and
myself. The raps and moving of the large table had been
going on the whole evening, even whilst we were at supper.
As soon as we put the lights out, again there came, in fresh
power, the sweet perfumed breeze, and the bright spirit lights.
Very shortly we heard a ticking or rustling among the
paper, which was lying upon the table with a pencil ; we had
barely time to count “ seven,” when pencil and paper were
thrown down ; we lighted the candle and found a sheet full
of closely and minutely, but clearly written direct spirit¬
writing 1
It is a very beautiful message, much too long to be inserted
here, but will shortly be offered to one of the Spiritual papers
for publication.
Very shortly John Watt again joined us, and entered into a
most interesting and impressive conversation. I much regret
that we could none of us take down short-hand notes of what
passed, for it is not possible to recall from memory such
details.
Among other subjerts we spoke of Christ. John told us
that when on earth he (John Watt) had been a Unitarian, but
very shortly after he reached the spirit-land, he was taught
about Christ’s Divinity. He told us that Christ is the One
i Visible God.” The Father, or essence of Divinity, residing
in the highest Celestial Sphere, as the Sun Centre of all, He is
not seen in form. The human mind or spirit can but grasp the
idea of “ God ” by the incarnation of Divinity in the person
of Christ, His Son. The Holy Spirit is the pervading life of
the universe. Enpassant, let me remark that this corroborates
what I have been taught by my spirit guides, through the
spirit-writing; and, also, that a few weeks ago, in a very
beautiful message, purporting to come from “ Edward Dennys,
the well-known author of ‘ Alpha ’ (and also a Unitarian while
on earth), these words are used, “ The Fatherhood is universal,
but it's a truth I did not grasp, that it ultimated fully in the
Spirit of Christ His Son, &c.” But I must not now enter
further upon this subject, having already (and as usual) tres¬
passed too far upon the valuable space of this journal. As
John Watt wished us “ Good-night,” he observed, “ Your papa
and mamma have just come.” As he said it two bright
cloudy figures were seen by most of us present standing in one
corner of the room. We had asked John to leave us at twenty-
five minutes past 10 o’clock in order that Mr. and Mrs. Everitt
might not lose the last train, as they unfortunately could not
remain longer. When the lights came we found he was again
punctual to the minute. F. J. Theobald.
Hendon.
WAK.
Sib,—During the late war in Europe, I have closely watched
its educational and Spiritual influence on the English people,
and I am glad to see that the balance of feeling here is against
our national interference with the low intrigues of Continental
courts, and the butchery, which, sooner or later, results
therefrom.
Many of our newspapers, acting in the interests of those in¬
fluential people who want, to keep up heavy army and navy
expenses in order to find places for their relatives, have tried,
without success, to involve us in war. The taunt is, that
“ John Bull is a shopkeeper,” and cares nothing for honour or
glory. Is there any honour in taking part in a prize-fight ?
If two blackguards fight in the street, would Mr. S. C. Hall,
Mr. Wallace, or any leader of the Spiritual movement, gain
any honour by taking sides with either combatant ? Would
England have gained any real honour, had she proved, as
France and Prussia have just done, that they have progressed
only half-way from savagery to civilisation, and that the
religious teachings they have had for the last 1870 years have
proved to be practically a dead failure ?
Among Spiritualists are many busy-brained men, exerting
much influence in society, and I think that these should
one and all try to weaken the hands of everybody who desires
to mix this country up with the affairs of Continental nations.
If any treaty now exists, by which we could possibly at a
future time be embroiled in a Continental quarrel, let us do
all we can to get such treaty cancelled at once by mutual
agreement of -the contracting parties. Will some member of
Parliament move for a list of all clauses in all treaties which
might possibly at a future time be the means of embroiling
us in a Continental war? The return might also state what
English ministry was party to the formation of each of the
said clauses.
In spite of the beating of big drums, the blowing of trumpets,
and the songs of triumph of a low-class press, I am not at all
sure that thoughtful German and French soldiers, who go home
fresh from the slaughter-house, with their hands bathed in
human blood, will at heart believe they have gained so much
honour as England has done, in looking after the wants of
the sick, wounded, and starving belligerents.
Do not think I am wanting in the chivalric spirit; I like
such characters as a certain Provost of Edinburgh—
 A brave old man was he,
Of ancient name and knightly fame.
And chivalrous degree.
He ruled our city like a lord,
And brooked no equal here,
Yet ever for the the townsmen’s rights
Stood up ’gainst prince and peer.
It is this same chivalric and noble spirit which I wish to
see exhibited in the moral world, and not in cut-throat work
or in political intrigue. Many a man who will walk boldly up
to the cannon’s mouth, has not the moral courrge to run
counter to the social and political evils sanctioned and sup¬
ported by society, which evils cause poverty, ignorance, and
starvation among thousands, and make us a miserable, unhappy
people. There is plenty of scope at home for those who wish
to act with chivalric spirit.
February 10th, 1871- X.
WHAT IS A SPIBIT?
Sib,—What is a spirit? is answered by the question, what
is a man ? The answer may take another phase, and be—
A being possessed of life, of intellect to observe, to consider,
and act with and up to the powers he is possessed of, both
intellectual, ethereal, and physical.
Human-life is of itself an unseen force, possessed of form,
and by assimilating to itself visible material substances,
crusts itself, as it were, with and in those substances, which to
us, are, bone, flesh, blood, hair, &c„ and become visible as one
body hairing many members or divisions called brain, legs,
arms, &c., and it is susceptible to atmospheric changes. If by
accident a leg is cut off, the life form, without the crustation,
still exists and feels the power of the atmospheric changes.
A slight change in the life essence, would, as in snow-flakes,
change the crystallic form, and produce the wing or the fin.
though the brain might remain the same, and thus engage in
duties, man cannot, with his present form, attempt.
Science is perceiving that the real, the elementary forces
of nature, are invisible to the eye, as invisible as the air we
breathe ; therefore it is no incredible fact that life, having by
the involuntary nerves and powers used up the physical seen
forces created by eating and drinking, should throw them
off, and the body so thrown off be called dead, but the
life still continue a living intelligence—an individualised,
unseen force ; amalgamating witn itself the more refined
elements of nature around, and which we may call soul, and
in that condition think on, act on, possessed of memory, mind,
and will—a so-called disembodied spirit, capable of pro¬
ducing, when he wills, the varied phenomena called spiritual;
nay more, that while the spirit is in the flesh, it is creating
from the elements which it has assimilated to itself, the
ethereal substance and form it has to live in and use when
it has to leave the flesh body. Let us, for want of a better
symbol, refer to the caterpillar and butterfly.
Light can pass through glass, though air cannot. Electri¬
city and magnetism can pass through walls and floors though
light cannot: it therefore seems not an incredible thing, that
a human being should exist, think, and act in the finer and
more ethereal elements around us ; possessed of brains to think,
and a body to act; and in that condition produce effects as
wonderful as light, as electricity, as magnetism, as air ; and
also in that condition, either pass through glass or stone walls,
depending entirely bn the powers of the ethereal elements the
human spirit has assimilated to itself. This range of
evidence has been taken for the sake of atheists and deists who
glibly assert that intelligent spirits cannot have an existence.
Christians, Mahommedans, Brahmins, and others, acknowledge
the existence of spirits, and of the great spirit, God. “ God
is a spirit.” They acknowledge that around Him, and in his
dominions are ethereal intelligent beings, thinking and
acting as need arises. Therefore as light travels with speed, so
may spirit; and as electricity can circle the world, a distance
of twenty-four thousand miles, in less than a second of time,
so may an individualised spirit.
That spirits exist, is a fact based, not only on past historical
narratives, ecclesiastical and secular ; but also on the know¬
ledge of thousands of persons in domestic life, and in all
grades of religious and irreligious society, Unfortunately,
the “Reformation,” in its effort to abate—to destroy the
scandal of men selling Divine pardons at so much per sin, by
means of Saint A, Saint B, and the mother of our Lord’s
brothers, proclaimed to the people God alone in action on
earth for good, and taught this in our schools and colleges,
the only other person in action being the devil.
That method abated the scandal, but unfortunately, in a
generation or two, it shut out through the press and the
pulpit, all knowledge in Protestant families of spiritual beings
acting for, with and around us ;' and all spirits seen were put
down to hallucination, to disordered stomachs ; and the theo¬
logical dilemmas produced by the assertions that God in
person did all, does all, led to the rampant materialism which has
prevailed.
Let our population know, that the Deity has His ethereal,
intelligent agents in action around earth, acting mentally and
physically in ethereal elements, under laws as rigidly binding
on them, as we are bound in our semi-ethereal bodies of flesh ;
and at once many theological difficulties would be solved,
special providences understood, ministering angels become a
felt reality, heavenly or ethereal hosts a reality, ethereal music
(chord and discord) a reality, spirit-power phenomena by and
communion with good and evil spirits a reality. Our faith
and hope, in being by-and-by an ethereal being become
a certainty, and that we shall again see and embrace our
loved ones, a certainty. Here in the flesh, “ we see as through
a glass (our eyes) darkly, but then face to face ”—spirit to
spirit. John Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood Junction.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, January 26th, a dark seance was held
by the Brixton Society of Spiritualis'ts, at their usual place of
meeting, 98, Lothian-road, North Brixton ; Mrs. Bassett, of
Stratford, was the medium, and about twenty ladies and gen¬
tlemen were present.
Spirit voices and spirit hands are formed through Mrs. Bas¬
sett’s mediumship. How Mr. Bassett first began to investigate
Spiritualism was published in No. 9 of The Spiritualist. For
a long time Mrs. Bassett would not believe that the manifes¬
tations were produced by spirits; but now that these powerful
voices, heard by everybody, talk to her when light is absent,
she says she is obliged to believe in the spiritual origin of the
phenomena. At the Brixton seance the spirits who thus spoke,
said that they did so by means of an artificial throat and
lungs, formed from the emanations from the medium,and if those
present could see the process of producing the voice manifes¬
tations, they would be much frightened at the scene. Some¬
body remarked, “ But you would not like to frighten us ? ”
The voice answered that they would not mind frightening the
observers, but the conditions would not allow them to make
the process visible. One of the spirits remarked that in a
mixed company, where many of those assembled did not know
each other, some would be apt to think that the voices were
produced by one or more of the mortals present; the right
thing, therefore, for investigators to do, was to form circles in
their own homes, and to test Spiritual phenomena at their own
firesides, under conditions where collusion is impossible.
Mrs. Bird is a seeing medium. She said she saw one of the
spirits who spoke, and that the spirit was a lady—a deceased
relative of Mr. T. A. Reed, the well-known shorthand writer
of Chancery-lane. Mr. and Mrs. Bird, who knew the lady
before she passed away, said that this particular voice, heard
at the circle last Thursday, was the voice of the deceased, and
all the persons present heard the voice.
This is the first interesting stance for physical manifesta¬
tions which has been held by the Brixton Society, and in this
instance the phenomena were considerably weakened, in con¬
sequence of the medium having partly exhausted her power,
by previously sitting at a private circle on the same day.
The Habley-stbeet Meetings.— Last Monday week
the last, for the present, of the Harley-street meetings in con¬
nection with Spiritualism was held at the Beethoven Rooms.
Mr. Coleman informs us that the statement in the last Spirit¬
ual News that he had not been well supported by subscriptions
to cover the expenses of the twelve meetings, was erroneous,
but that he will now pause for a time, that those who desire
to see the meetings continued through the rest of the winter,
may write to him at 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, S.E.,
and send in their contributions. The Rev. F. R. Young
recently read a paper at the Beethoven Rooms. Another was
read by Dr. C. M. Davies, a minister of the Church of England,
and the reputed author of the “ Unorthodox London’’ letters
in the Daily Telegraph; it was an honest straightforward
paper, admitting that he had often witnessed the phenomena
when none but members of his private family were present.
He however questioned the personal identity of the spirits or
intelligences who professed to communicate, but mentioned a
few good proofs of identity he had had, amongst very many
of an unsatisfactory nature. He also pointed out, that one of
the thirty-nine articles of the Church of England recognises
certain Spiritual phenomena. Mr. William White, author of
The Life of Swedenborg, read a paper at the Beethoven Rooms
on “ Miracles,” which he argued were not violations of natural
law. Mrs. Hardinge delivered the closing lecture of the series,
and her subject was “ The Teachings of Spiritualism.” She
pointed out that all the spirits, whatever may be their religious
opinions, agree in stating that their happiness or misery beyond
the grave resulted from the deeds they did in life, and that
the state of man is one of eternal progression.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Letters from correspondents in Dalston and Somers-town, are
crowded out of this issue.
144
THE SPIRITUALIST
Feb. 15, 1871
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIEITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen Pit spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it,is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
; believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPHtlTUAUSM DESEKVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
* was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Yarley,
C.E., F.E.G.S., M.E.I. :—
, “ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer - by profession for twenty-one^ years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at tbe
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bayaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-creseent,
N.W.; Professor He Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Erayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St, John’s-w;oqd-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
'.mbnd7street, W.C.: S.'O. Hall, Esq., 15,'Ashley-place,
- 'Victoria-street,’SW:; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
• Hewitt; Esq., The Orchard,' Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
,D. Jencken, ,Esqj,„,Kilmorpy-house, Norwood; J. G.
■'Crawford,'’ Esq.,,52,; Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
‘Wilkinson,VEsq.,/' Qakfleld, KiTburn; Lord Adare, ’5,
iff. -Buckihgjialm-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenbr-
■ 'square ”-' - if ‘:
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
’ From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
-ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
, of London^ in his preface to the book, says :—
“I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a'rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake.. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
,of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
' spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
; result was that he came into communication with
. some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also’
written interesting books on the subj ect. Eecently,
in England, Yiscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Lvfe of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quai'terly Journal of
Science,, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as, yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Yarley, was published in the Spimtualist of
July loth, 1870 :—
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“July.13th, 1870.
“Dear Mb. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter-of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded, to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in-
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific ■ or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury* to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers . of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per fesfes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to, belong to the. party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a. like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side m like manher
as above)—the ownership of, the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“In either case, ihe stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
- “ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Ofifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Oom-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities.- Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two„mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
B
EITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
CORPORATION.
limited, for effecting
BANKING LIFE, AND SELF, INSUBANCE ON
GOYEBNMENT SECTJBITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and. Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street, London, E.O.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Benfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, .Dublin. -
1, Brown’s-huildings, Exchange,’ Liverpool.
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place,'Douglass,' Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING features of this system are
It provides Government Security for the Life-Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth fpr
Expenses_ of Management, Beserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees apt iwtiepen-
dehtly of the Directors.'
This form of Security is stpictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of all Premiums paid (accord¬
ing to the Table under which the Policy is effected) can
be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceasing
premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsed on
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the
amount for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values ” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
! their former Policies, without further payment.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should Understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Aii experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
Bankers:
Bank of England.
Manchester and Liverpool District Bank.
Auditor
(To the Government Security Life Insurance Fund):
Dr. William Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London.
General Manager:
John, A. Feigan.
Secretary:
William Davies,
Brown-street, Marsden-street, Manchester.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of
BIBDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOB OF
NATUBE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street-, Birmingham.
Heaven opened; or, messages
for the BEBEAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLOBY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.O.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Beligion.” Edited by
the Bev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Oo., 60, Patemoster-rOw. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Bawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
A SERIES OF POPULAR LECTURES,
by MBS. EMMA HAKDINGE, in the METEO-
POLITAN HALL (adjoining Gower-street Bail way
Station), and LAWSON’S BOOMS, 145, Gower-street.
Wednesday, February 15, 1871, in the Metropolitan
Hall, “Anton Mesmer; or, the Philosopher’s Stone.”
Chairman—J. W. Jackson, Esq., F.A.S.L.
Wednesday, February 22, 1871, in Lawson’s Booms,
“The Amusements of the People.” Chairman—N. F.
Daw, Esq.
Wednesday, March 1, 1871, in Lawson's Booms,
“Children’s Bights; or, Shall we Educate the People?”
Chairman—A. O. Swinton, Esq.
Wednesday, March 8, 1871, in Metropolitan Hall,
“Joan of Arc” (by request). Chairman—Thomas
Shorter, Esq.
Wednesday, March 15, 1871, in Lawson's Booms,
“Music as an Educator” (by request). (With Vocal
and Instrumental Illustrations.) Chairman—William
Tebb, Esq.
Wednesday, March 22, 1871, in Lawson’s Booms,
“ The Bank and File of Society.” Chairman—J. Baxter
Langley, Esq., LL.D., &c.
The Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely, each evening.
Doors open at 7.30.
Subscribers' Tickets (Beserved Seats) for the Course, 5s.
Admission, 6d. Back Seats, 3d.
Subscribers may obtain Tickets at the Progressive
Library and Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton
Bow, W.O.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
Female medical society.
Vice-Patrons :
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Bight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.,
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.O.
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers :
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five yearn the. Ladies'
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi-
i cine., Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
1 of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably. !
A life subscription of ,ten gumeas;; or/ an annual sub¬
scription . of one guinea,., constitutes a member of the
Society,' but stamps or other small contributions willNe
gladly received. y . '.
Lady subscribers of not less than one^gjnea aiw
invited to-yisit any Lectures^ in which Jhi^'aris’ Bkely tii
be interested
The addresses of.skille'd Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses
of the College, and'all particulars as to the pperaticins Of"
the Society, may be obtained,qf thgLadyNetyAtary. ■■>
C Temporary Offices—i Fitzroy-aquare, W.
heques to be crossed London and County Bank.
SUNDAY EVENING MEETINGS in con¬
nection with SPIEITUALISM, conducted by Mrs.
Emma Hardinge,. are held every Sunday evening, at
1, Cleveland Assembly Booms, Cleveland-street, Fitzroy-
square. Admission free. There is a collection at the
doors.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAB, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Boad, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND OO., 335, STBAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Betail.
THE SPIRITUAL NEWS:—The last
number of The Spiritual News contains:—Extraor¬
dinary Manifestations through Mrs. Guppy’s Medium-
ship.—The Discussion on Mr. Coleman’s paper on “ The
Bise and Progress of Spiritualism in England.”—Ver¬
batim reports of the Speeches of Dr. Lockhart-Bobert-
son, Mr. C.'F. Varley, Dr. Wyld, and Mr. Andrew
i Leighton.—Spiritualism in Kilbum.—The Presentation
of an Address to Mrs. Hardinge. Price One Penny.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
©{intents.
Electricity, Magnetism, and the Human Body 187
Life and Intelligence 137
Trance-mediumship Extraordinary ...   138
Spiritualism in Kilbum    139
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’s Family. Part VTII. 139
The Future of Spiritualism    140
Among the Swedenborgians 140
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists 140
Leader:—The Nomenclature of Spiritualism 141
Poetry:—Baby Grace      141
Correspondence :—The Difficulties of Investigators,
141; Dr. Gully’s Experiences in Spiritualism,
142; Test Mediumship, 142; The Authenticity of
Spiritual Manifestations, 142; Spiritual Manifesta¬
tions, 142; Spiritualism at Home, 142; War, 143;
What is Spirit?     143
The Brixton Society of Spiritualists   ...143
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. M. Peebles, 140; Spiritualism
and Science, 140; A New Medium, 140; Mrs.
Emma Hardinge Britten, 141; The Harley-street
Meetings, ...   ...  143
Answers to Correspondents   ... ... ... 143
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E, W. Allen, Ave Maria-lafie, London, EG
