AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 98.—(Vol. Y.—No. 2.) LONDON: JULY 10, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(Eontents.
The Correlation of Spiritual Manifestations ...    13
Wonderful appearance of Materialised Spirits at the Seances of the
Eddy Family:—Appearance of Four Indian Spirits and the De¬
parted Brother of one of the Sitters—Musical Instruments Floated
and Played upon in the Light—Remarkable Appearance of
Materialised Spirits—Temporarily Materialised Spirits Fencing
■with Swords—A Dead Bird brought to Life and other Strange
Manifestations—Spirit Identity   14
A Sandgate Clergyman on Spiritualism   ...     17
The Annual Conference of Spiritualists    18
Materialisation Seances in America     19
The Reading of Sealed Letters by a Spirit (by Prince Wittgenstein) ... 19
The Study of Physical Manifestations      19
English Materialisation Manifestations under Test Conditions   20
The Seance at Mr. Serjeant Cox’s:—Mr. William Howitt on the Moat
Mount Seance—Mr. Serjeant Cox’s reply to his Opponents   21
Answers to Correspondents  24
Paragraphs:—Marriage, 19; Arrival of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor,
24; Spiritual Publications, 24; Musical Education for the Blind, 24;
New American Spiritual Newspaper   24
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall St, Co.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested lo communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
Will be held in London (Lawson’s Rooms, 145, Gower-street), from the
4th to the 7th of August.
GENERAL PROGRAMME.
Tuesday, August ith.—Opening Soiree. Tea at 6 o’clock. Chairman’!
address at 8 o'clock, on detailed arrangements of conference.
Wednesday, August 5th.—First session of conference, 10 am. to 1 p.m.
Second session 3 p.m. to 5.30 pm. Subjects for consideration: “Organi¬
sation and the Physical Phenomena.”
Thursday, August 5th.—Third and fourth sessions at same hours. Sub¬
jects: Direct Voice, Writing, and Painting; Inspirational and Trance
Speaking; Spirit Photography; the Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity
—Past, Present, and Future.
Friday, August 1th.—Public Meetings at 3 and 6*30 at the Crystal Palace.
On the evenings of Wednesday and Thursday arrangements will be made
as far as practicable for the bolding of seances for the different classes of
phenomena, and in the mornings for the taking of spirit photographs.
Terms of Admission: Soiree—Members tickets, Is. each; non-members.
Is. 6d. Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings, members free upon pre¬
sentation of their card sf membership; non-members Is. to each session, or
to each public meeting, or by 2s. 6d. ticket to the entire course. Non-mem¬
bers purchasing two 2s. 6d. tickets will have the privilege of nominating a
person to be a member of the Association until the end of the current year.
The Secretaries will be in attendance at the soiree for the purpose of re¬
cording the application of persons properly introducedto become members
of the Association. These, upon payment of theMembers subscription, will
be entitled to admission to the Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings
free. T. Everitt, Chairman, Conference Committee.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—iames Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Ms. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mi. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd,
Mr. Bretherton.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Ty&rman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
PERSONS willing to CONTRIBUTE PAPERS on the
following subjects are invited to send their names to A JOY, Esq., 25,
James-street, Buckingham Gate.
1. The best means to be employed by the Association in promoting the
organisation of Spiritualists.
2. The philosophy and purpose of physical manifestations.
3. The best conditions (mental, physical and social), for evolving physical
mani festations.
4. The “Direct” Voice, Writing, and Painting.
5. Inspirational and trance speaking.
6. On Spirit Photograpby.
7. The Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity, Past, Present, and
Future.
The papers must be sent to A. Joy, Esq., not later than Friday, the 31st
July. All accepted papers to remain the property of the Association, un¬
less specially agreed otherwise. Non-members contributing accepted
papers will be elected Honorary Members for the remainder of the current
year. T. Everitt, Chairman, Conference Committee.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman's Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, At
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 10, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The, Objects of tMs Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Furoft, Secretary pro tem. •
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. "Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. . Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led; in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
•to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Q-oswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington,
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(■WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NE WOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seance's are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, ta commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time annotihced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
‘must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
TO VENDORS OF SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS.—
Contents Bills' of every number of The Spiritualist, for exhibition in
shop windows and at public meetings, may now be obtained weekly, on
application,, Newsvendors are each requested to order one with their
weekly supply of papers.—London, E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C. ,   ■ ' .  _ „  
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,’’
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles .by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general in formation.   • ...
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.   -  ■
A?-f Reward:_maskelyne & cooke:
^ JL ^ WW AN EXPOSURE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a: Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright' Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vb., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and Other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2S. 6d.
 London: TRtTBNBB & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. ____
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Libraryfor use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary. .
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
  A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary. .. . ...
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
TrawM?^?’.—Hekbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chahcery-lane
Offices.—'64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
A~ PHYSIOLOGICAL DEMONSTRATION will be
given on Sunday Evening next, the 12th inst., at 15, St. Peter's-road,
Mile-end, London, E., to commence at 7 o’clock. Subject:—“Cranial
Nerves, their Uses and Distributions,’’ by Charles Cogman, Surgeon, &c.
Seance afterwards as usual,  .   
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
W. H. GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER.
STUDIO:—45, CHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.C.
„ List of Prices. £ I. d.
Album Portraits    '.  6 for 0 5 0
„ „ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12 „ 0 7 6
„ ,, (2 positions)     12 „ 0 9 0
Group of two  I?    ... ... ... 12 u 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Vignettes ...     12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest ” ...    ... ... 12 „ 0 12 6
Cameo Vignettes ...    ... ......... 12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits    .... ,,.v  1 for 8s.ed. or 6 ,", 0 10 6
Drawing Boom Portraits, size ^ by 6} ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 10 6
„ „ „ , framed and coloured complete ... ... 110
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame   ... ... ...    ... ... complete 2 2 0
Locket Portraits ... . v.. ... ... ...  .; ... each 0 2 6
„ „ coloured  ... ... from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, Invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Critique in the Photographic News, November 22nd, 1872.
“Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant,
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition."
  Established iq Colnhill, 1862.  
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
ITIAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
Jj and PROGRESS, by a Girl 1? years of age, under Spirit Influence,
dited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &o., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
sJA*
eJAs
JVxrjjms xt| nn% Jailpijs
VOjLUjVte FIVE. fJUjVlBE^ TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 10th, 1874.
S^iritwalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Coirespondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be lohger sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to fee addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, II, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of '•'■The Spiritualist" in
London ot in the provinces is the fa/ult of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES:.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co.,- 388, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
Sah Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—;W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &C., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. O. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff; news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr, J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandfidge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thdfhfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
ICSs than £2 between, most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARTLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT D ALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. J Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr; C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchestet-square, W.
. The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-Street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
THE CORRELATION OF SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
From the advent of modern Spiritualism down to the
present time, critical minds have pointed out how in
many phases of spiritual manifestations the intelli¬
gence contained in the messages has been greatly
limited by the mental capacity of the medium, and
mesmerists have argued that the superior intelligence
often displayed in trance addresses arises merely from
the temporary exaltation of the natural powers of the
sensitive. But whilst on the one hand there are many
phases of mediumship in relation to which such argu¬
ments are of great weight, there are others in which
spirits unknown to the medium give their names and
addresses, the particulars of their earth-lives, and other
details which the medium could by no possibility have
ever known, but which yet, after searching inquiry,
prove to be true. To the first of these phases of
mediumship it is intended on the present occasion
chiefly to direct attention.
A physical medium, after sitting a few times,, gets
table motions, or raps; these month by month increase
in power, and he hears that others with strongly de¬
veloped power of this kind have obtained direct spirit
voices by sitting for them at dark seances. He conse¬
quently sits for the purpose; low whispers, broken
sentences, or disagreeable squeaking noises soon begin,
and after a time the direct spirit voice becomes an
established manifestation. It was on record, long,
before the full form manifestations began, that these
voices at first were so much like those of the medium
as to cause them considerable annoyance, but as the
power grew the dissimilarity increased. It was also
discovered and recorded, notably in some instances
connected with the Davenport Brothers, that their
hands and arms, and sometimes their dresses and whole
bodies were occasionally duplicated, while the mediums
themselves were bound and sealed hand and foot, or
held hand and foot by the spectators. A notable
feature at these voice seances was the general limitation
of the knowledge of the speaking spirit by the in¬
tellectual capacity of the medium,- and the unsatisfac¬
tory nature of the statements they made as to their
own identity, not one of the John Kings, John Watts,
Jack Todds, Katie Kings, Annie Morgans, or George
Holts having, so far as we know, proved their identity
in a sufficiently satisfactory manner for their statements
to be substantiated by documentary evidence. As
some of these spirits began to show themselves, they
were found to be partly like the mediums, and partly
like somebody else. A photograph (marked No. 7) of
one of these spirits taken by Mr. William Crookes is
now lying before us, in which the narrow forehead,
thin face, and pointed chin of the medium, are replaced
by a broad forehead and full round face, but with the
1 chief resemblance to the medium in the lines of the
14
THE SPIEITUALIST.
July 10, 1874.
nose and eyebrows. Thus it will be seen that the de¬
velopments of the present, fit in with the developments
of the past, and that the manifestations now going on
in England harmonise with the more advanced mani¬
festations in America is evident from the contents of
the spiritual journals reaching us from that country.
If manifestations of this kind stood alone, and proofs
of spirit identity satisfactory to reasonably critical minds
were always absent, the spirit theory might perhaps be
evaded, and an argument substantiated that all the
phenomena were due to some unknown powers exhi¬
bited unconsciously by mediums while in abnormal
mesmeric states. But there are exceptions, even among
spirits who speak with the direct voice; all three of
Mrs. Bassett’s voice spirits, for instance, have proved
their identity to the satisfaction of their surviving
relatives; in one of these cases the spirit himself was
the first to tell his surviving relatives in England that
he had died in America, so far as his body was con¬
cerned ; he also gave the address of his widow, that
they might write to her to get the fact verified, which
was done.
So far as we have seen, every powerful physical
medium has one spirit near him, much like him in
thought, mind, and purpose, otherwise they could not
be happy together. This spirit in manifesting, being
divorced from the material conditions of existence, by
will-power and other methods gains power over the
material conditions appertaining to the medium,
to which the medium has the primary right, but
which is overruled for the time being, and the
conditions of thus manifesting physically are such
that a mixture of the individuality of the spirit
and of the medium is the result. When conditions
are good, the individuality of the spirit preponderates;
when they are bad, the individuality of the medium is
in the ascendant. Hence, the more unspiritual the
people, and the more they break conditions at seances,
the worse manifestations do they most deservedly get.
Indeed, one legal gentleman asserts that he recently
obtained all medium and no spirit; if bad conditions
tend to produce that result, there is no question that
he and his friends had supplied them in abundance.
But these controlling spirits sometimes stand on one
side, and permit others to attempt to communicate;
they seem to watch such strange spirits and their
attempts with much jealousy, lest they should obtain
permanent control over the medium; this watchfulness
may be generally due to care for the welfare of the
medium, but in some cases they may have a selfish
interest and desire to keep up their own connection
with earth and its conditions through the agency of a
medium, since there are both good and bad, selfish and
noble, among those in the other life.
Test physical mediumship appears to be a bad thing
for the mediums ; the more degraded and more sus¬
picious the mortal seeking for physical tests on the one
side, because he cannot yet personally realise a state of
society in which individual truth and integrity may be
as strong as physical tests, the lower and more un¬
developed does the spiritual power on the other side
appear to be. It seems to be analogous to the fact
that every additional weight placed in one pan of
a balance, by inexorable law necessitates the adding
of equal weights on the other scale, to restore the
equilibrium. Pure-minded, spiritual people, who apply
tests for scientific purposes, and not to meet the rotten¬
ness of the suspicious nature of their own hearts, usually
get magnificent results, and do not seem to bring bad
influences about the medium. It would be unpleasant
to individuals to point to all the available examples
tending to substantiate these ideas, but it is notorious
that some of the most wonderful test mediums who
have visited this country from America, have had to
depart precipitately to escape the consequences of their
malpractices in other respects.
The foregoing ideas are in no sense recorded autho¬
ritatively; they are mere speculations which have been
forced upon our consideration by the facts we have
observed at some hundreds of seances, attended without
any preconceived theological or scientific theories of
any kind whatever.
WONDERFUL APPEARANCE OF MATERIALISED
SPIRITS AT THE SEANCES OF THE EDDY
FAMILY.
From the “ Beligio-Philosophical Journal" (Chicago,
June 20th).
DESCRIPTION OE THE HOUSE AND SEANCE BOOM.
The home of the Eddys is in Chittenden, Yermont.
To reach it you have to go by private conveyance from
Kertland, about six miles. I reached there the after¬
noon of May 15th, 1874, and I found there a number
of gentlemen and ladies who like myself were seeking
for light in relation to spiritual things and the evidence
of our future life. The road is north and south—the
Eddys’ home is on the west side, and faces the road
east; it is a large two-story house with a two-story
wing extending from the upright west. The second
story of the wing consists of a hall, its size being about
35 ft. by 18 ft., and it is entered from the second story
of the upright. There is but one door to enter and go
from the hall. At the west end right across the room
is a stage or platform five feet wide, and in front of it,
on its edge, stands a rail on supporters about two feet
high, extending from the north side of the room to
within two feet of the south side, where is left an open
space and two steps upon which to mount the platform.
The north quarter of this stage is taken up by a dark
closet and the chimney that passes from below up
through the hall. The door of this closet opens almost
in the centre of the stage, there being a space of three
feet between it and the rail. There is no furniture nor
paraphernalia of any description in this hall. To light
it up in the day time it has three windows on the north
and three on the south. I have been thus particular in
the description of this place on account of its being an
enchanted hall, in which the Eddys hold their seances,
and where many mortals have seen and conversed with
their friends from the spirit world, who there clothe
themselves with materiality and the habiliments of
their earth-life.
On the evening of May 15th, there being present
eight persons beside the family (which consists at the
present time of three brothers and two sisters, all being
mediums, but only two of them, William and Horatio,
give seances), we formed a semicircle, twelve of us
extending from one side of the room to the other, and
about four feet from the stage. William informed the
company that any person who wished could examine
him, his clothing, and the dark closet as much as they
wished. The writer noticed that he had no white
garment on him, his shirt being a dark coloured woollen
cloth, and we saw nothing that implied the least dis¬
position to conceal anything either about his person or
July 10, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
in the closet. His hands were securely tied behind him.
He was placed in a chair in the closet and a large
shawl was used to curtain the door, leaving him in the
dark; the light was set on the floor and turned down so
that we could just see each other; we all joined hands
and commenced to sing. In less than two minutes the
curtain was raised and pulled back from one side, and there
stood two child-like forms draped in white ; one of them
bowed, motioned its arms and beckoned to a lady in the
circle. The lady then remarked, “ how much it acts
like Jenny,” when both of the childish forms seemed to
dance with glee a moment or two, then disappeared,
the lady believing that in them she recognised her
child that was dead, and its playmate that had recently
passed to the spirit-land. I am not very much disposed
to be startled at any unusual phenomenon, and had just
as lief look upon the devil as our orthodox friends
describe him as not> hut I confess that I think my hair
started up when I saw those children.
APPEABANCE OE POUR INDIAN SPIRITS AND THE DEPARTED
BROTHER OP ONE OP THE SITTERS.
We kept up the singing. Soon there appeared an
old lady whom the family call grandmother, and in an
old cracked voice, she gave some directions and dis¬
appeared. following her disappearance, out slipped a
large portly man with black pants, coat and vest, and
a white shirt; light features, dark hair and beard.
His motion was slow; he bowed several times. A
gentleman present from Springfield, Massachusetts,
J. F. Baker, who sat beside me, recognised in him his
brother who had been in the spirit-world only three
weeks. He vanished, and a voice requested us to sing
vigorously. Several attempts were now made by dif¬
ferent spirits to appear, and one after the other, four
Indians came out in different costumes, each staying
long enough to show himself; one of them a large
majestic fellow stood against the door case to give us
an idea of his height, and we judge that he was six and
a half feet high, and the most of the company were of
the same opinion. One very friendly Indian maiden
came out and danced, and motioned to a lady, Mrs.
Cleveland, to come up on the stage. The old lady went
up and then mortal danced with immortal. The old
lady told me she had a kind of dread at coming in con¬
tact with this materialisation, and it made her shudder
when touched by it. I wanted to dance with the
Indian maid, but did not get a chance. Her move¬
ments were very graceful and easy. Now, the spirits,
purporting to be three of them, held quite a colloquy in
voices differing in tone and in the use of language;
this closed the cabinet seance.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS PLOATED AND PLAYED UPON IN
THE LIGHT.
On the evening of May 16th, the same company
present, Horatio came forward for examination, which
having been done to the satisfaction of all present, a
guitar, some bells and other instruments were placed on
a stand which was screened from view by hanging up a
shawl, and placing two common chairs in front of it.
In one of these chairs Horatio was seated; in the
other a Mr. Severance of our circle. He having bared
his arm, Horatio clasped it with both his hands, when
they were covered with a shawl, and while sitting
facing us all, the guitar was floated over their heads in
plain sight, and projected out first on one side of them,
and then on the other and between them, playing all
the time; also other instruments in company with it.
Some of the time it was six feet away from the medium,
and played upon rapidly and in plain sight of every one
in the room.
A ring about eight inches in diameter was handed to
us to examine, and we all pronounced it a solid iron
ring. It was placed at the back of the medium and
Mr. Severance, when the latter changed his position by
taking one of the medium’s hands in his, the other
hand of the medium remaining on his wrist all the
time. Then the medium shook from head to foot, and
throwing the shawl off that covered his hands, there
was the ring on Severance’s right arm. How it got
there, Mr. Severance says, is incomprehensible to him.
REMARKABLE APPEARANCE OF MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
"William now presented himself as usual, giving the
same opportunity for examination as before. He was
tied and entered the closet whence come the denizens
of the unseen world. Soon there appeared a man
apparently sixty years of age. A lady present thought
it was her father. His disappearance was followed by
a lady with a small child in her arms coming into our
sight. Mr. Severance could not say certainly, but he
thought it might be his deceased wife and her child.
Then the children appeared again that we saw the
evening before.
On Sunday evening, May 17th, the principal ma¬
terialisations were—first, one who calls herself the
“ Witch of the Mountains,” who appeared in full view,
draped in weird costume, with a crown on her head
and a long gauze veil over her face, which she raised
slowly and majestically, and took a chair that was on
the platform, sat down and discoursed to us on the
philosophy of the phenomena we were witnessing,
winding up with a golden promise to us that as earth’s
children get rid of their fears and superstitions, so that
they can bear greater things, the spirits would produce
more startling sights and utter things now unutterable.
Then came another, a woman in. white Garibaldi waist
and black skirt, and it was said by those who thought
they knew, that it was Achsa W. Sprague. The
features were white and as expressionless as death.
She appeared to look us all over, made a bow, clasped
her hands and kneeled on the floor and poured forth a
fervent prayer, so intense, so stirring, and thrilling to
the feelings, that the company’s “ Amen ” was simul¬
taneous with the closing of the prayer.
This same evening we all sat around a table with
joined hands. Horatio had his right hand covered in
such a manner as to prevent him using his fingers had
he wished to. The key end of a guitar rested on this
muffled hand (his other hand being placed on the table)
the body of it on the lap of a lady, one of our investi¬
gators—the writer standing between said lady and the
medium, with the whole guitar under his eyes and the
fastenings of the strings from end to end in full view,
and while in this position, in good light, the guitar had
played upon it tune after tune by hands unseen. I
saw the strings vibrate under the touch they received,
and pressed down at the different frets as the tu nes
were played. Some of the time fingers appeared to
come from the inside of the body of the instrument,
but they were visible only for an instant at the time,
and at intervals, during the whole of the playing, which
lasted thirty minutes.
I saw no materialised forms that I could recognise,
but I have met several persons who have not only seen
but conversed with their beloved ones in the spirit-
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 10, 1874.
land. Knowing what I do of these manifestations,
and haying, while there, such an ocular and audible
demonstration as the guitar experiment on the last
evening, I can concede the possibility of the reality of
the other equally startling, but no more conclusive,
phenomenon of materialisation, and to which so many
have attested.
I am not prepared to give my opinion concerning
the modus operandi of the materialising, but I believe
the mediums honest, and the future will unfold to us
the manner by which they are produced, and, whether
real or unreal in the demonstrations yet to come, they
serve to awaken and deepen thought concerning our
mysterious natures. Leaders, you who cannot believe
my statements, go and see these things for yourself;
give us your testimony; “ rise and explain,” if you
can: until you do the matter will exact a share of our
attention, and we shall go again when we can, for we
Want to prove all things, and hold fast that which is
good. J. H. Land all.
Clyde, Ohio. —— 
From the “ Banner of Light ” (Boston, June 20th).
■ TEMPORARILY MATERIALISED SPIRITS FENCTNO WITH
SWORDS.
I have recently made my second visit to the Eddy
Mediums at Chittenden, "Vermont, where I remained
eighteen days. To give you an account of all the strange
manifestations I witnessed during my stay, would take
up too much space in the Banner. But at the request of
many of the friends of your paper, and of the Eddys, in
Central New York, I offer its readers a brief statement
of some of the more remarkable occurrences; and of
most of them the following-named persons were asto¬
nished witnesses, to wit: Mrs. S. Denison, of Lidge
Mills, N. Y.; Mrs. S. A. N. Kimball, of Sackett’s
Harbour, N. Y.; Mrs. D. P. Haskell, of Madrid, N. Y.;
Mrs. C. Goss, of Hudson, Wis.; Dr. L. Hodgson, of
Stoneham, Mass.; Mr. George Lalph, Mr. Herman
Ehle, Mrs. Sarah Ehle and daughter, of Utica, N. Y.
Many other transient visitors might be named.
The general harmony of our circles was good.
On the evening of April 23rd we held a dark circle.
Medium—Horatio Eddy. Mrs. Kimball was requested
by the controlling spirit to sew the medium’s coat
together in front, which she did, beginning at the chin,
and ending at the waist. He was tied in the usual
manner, and the tying was examined before and after
the experiment, and it was found unchanged. The
coat was quickly taken off and thrown across the circle,
the stitches unbroken.
At the same sitting a violent fencing match took
place. Two swords in the hands of spirits clashed
fiercely. A spark, apparently from the concussion
of steel, lighted the whole room for an instant,
revealing to our eyes the forms of “ George Dix ”
and his antagonist, with the swords in their hands, and
the medium, Horatio, still sitting in his chair! " This
friendly spark was made by the spirit Dix expressly to
satisfy our minds as to who were the performers. The
spark was so instantaneous as to show the spirits at
rest. On account of his position in the circle, and
watchfulness, Dr. Hodgson was the best witness to this
startling manifestation.
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT DRAPERY IN THE LIGHT.
The materialisation of shawls, or u blanksum,” by
the spirit “ Honto,” in the light circles, was often
repeated, two, three, five, and seven times at one
appearance. She would put her hands up to the side
of a white plastered wall, and the fabric would instantly
be seen to come to the ends of her fingers. Then she
would exhibit the same by holding it up by the corners.
The best specimen exhibited was about a yard square,
and all were generally of a brown colour, having a
structure like silk tissue, and a feeling like crape. One
of these she laid down upon the floor, and it vanished
away from our sight, while we were all looking at it.
Honto would take them from any substance or object
near which she stood. She usually retired to the
cabinet, carrying her shawl with her, before making
another. Honto is a fine, noble spirit, and bears
acquaintance well.
Old Mr. Morse, a former near neighbour of the
Eddys, is now the conducting spirit in the light circles
by Wm. Eddy. He is, however, associated with Mrs.
Eddy, the glorified mother. The old gentleman speaks
in a fine, deep chest tone, giving the circle valuable
hints, and names of friends. Often he will, when re¬
quested, repeat the words of some feeble spirit to some
loved one in the circle, whose words have not been
fully understood.
Mrs. Eddy’s spirit quite often made us happy with
her addresses. She would come out of the cabinet and
walk to and fro on the stage, making gestures with the
usual force and manner of public speakers. She would
talk ten or fifteen minutes at a time, only retiring
occasionally to recover her strength.
The spirit of an unknown lady, who calls herself
*f The Witch of the Mountains,” talked to the circles in
a similar manner, demonstrating that the prophecy
uttered through mediums a few years since was true:
that spirits in materialised forms would, in a few years,
address public audiences so as to be seen and heard by
all. Her longest speech lasted about fifteen minutes.
She asked those who wished, to come up to where she
stood and take a lock• of her gray hair between their
fingers and receive her blessing and her assurance of
guidance and protection. This was done by three of
our party, she laying her hands on them.
On the 24th of April, in dark circle, spirit George
Dix gave us an experiment in evaporating water out
of a glass tumbler placed in a chair a few feet from
the medium. The water was taken out and the tumbler
remained dry, but the medium’s coat was found very
damp, mostly in front. The water had not been
sprinkled on the medium, but had entered the coat in
the form of a vapour or mist.
A DEAD BIRD BROUGHT TO LIFE AND OTHER STRANGE
MANIFESTATIONS.
April 28th, in another dark circle, “ May Elower ”
brought in a bird and put it into the hand of Mrs.
Kimball, saying she caught it and brought it down the
chimney as quickly as she could. Dix and May Elower
requested Dr. Hodgson to take the bird and “ strangle
it to death,” adding that there was a spirit present who
Would bring it to life again. The doctor, as requested,
strangled the bird by stopping its breath and circula¬
tion, and pronounced it dead beyond resurrection by
any common means. It was placed in a glass tumbler
and covered with a tea-saucer; and after the circle had
sung two or three minutes in the dark, the bird was
discovered alive in the tumbler !
Fearful exhibitions of power occurred many times in
the dark circles, when dancers and voices would be
heard in all parts of the room, and more noise and de¬
monstration would occur than any ten men could ac-
July 10, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
17
complish if they had been there, and used their utmost
exertions. On one occasion, in daylight, I saw a
picture of George Dix, painted on paper, with no frame,
fall to the floor. It fell about three feet from the wall
upon which it had hung, striking upon its edge, and a
loud explosion occurred at the instant it ^struck the
floor.
In one light circle, given by William Eddy, nineteen
different individual spirits appeared. Four of these
came out at once; they were three children of Mrs.
Kimball, accompanied by an old coloured woman. Then
the coloured woman came 'out with an infant in her
ariris. One spirit of a lady came out leading a little
child which she soon took up in her arms. More than
half of those appearing could speak in a whisper—a
few would talk loudly and distinctly. Some used a tin
trumpet, by which they were greatly assisted.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
We had great cause for rejoicing at the heautiful
evidences of spirit-life and identity which our friends
brought us, We were favoured with many evidences
of regard from the spirits, written by them on cards,
and some longer communications. Several pages were
written by spirits either sitting or standing, after
coming out of the cabinet, in the light, on a small
stand placed there for the purpose, and in full view of
the whole circle. One of these I copied as a specimen
of what was written. It was addressed to Mrs. Ehle,
of Utica, and read as follows :—
“ My Dear Sister Sarah—Years have passed since I re¬
ceived my spirit-birth, and then I was so young I can hardly
remember my earthly existence. But my experience in spirit-
life has given me many beautiful lessons, both in wisdom and
happiness. I have often visited you, and now you’ve come to
see me, and I am in your presence. I am still your own dear
sister, and am often with you, and shall welcome you home to
our beautiful shore, where pain and sickness are never felt,
and life is eternal. I shall ever help you as a true sister.
Julia.
The “ Witch of the Mountains,” in a light circle,
gave each of the six present a pebble, which we were
always to carry about us, she said,, and if we ever got
into trouble we were to take it in our hands and think
of her, and she would come and do all she could for us.
May Flower brought me a nice specimen of Egyptian
corn—an ear about five inches in length—and at the
same time George Dix brought me a very rare specimen
of mineral called “ Labradorite.” He said he got it at
the ruins of Pompeii. On polishing one side of it I find
it iridescent, and very beautiful. On the evening of
our last secmce we were each of us separately and very
touchingly addressed by the spirit of Mrs. Eddy in the
light circle. She most cordially thanked us for any
kindness we had shown her children. She very par¬
ticularly thanked Mr. Ealph, of Utica, for his interest
in her family, and for the resolute manner in which he
had defended them. She expressed gratitude to God
for the privilege of being the mother of children who
could be so successfully used in demonstrating the facts
and beauties of spirit-life, and the immortality of the
human soul. We left the hallowed home of the Eddys
regretfully, yet rejoicing in having witnessed most
glorious and satisfying results. During our stay not
one of us had occasion to harbour a doubt of the perfect
honesty of the mediums, or the full spiritual nature of
the manifestations. L. D. Smith,
West Winfield, N. A., May 24th, 1874.
A SAND GATE CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday morning the Eev. Mr. Yates, of Sand-
gate, who preached at Holy Trinity Church, Folkestone,
took occasion to tell his listeners there that he had no
belief in the claims of those “ fanatics,” who asserted
that direct communication had been established in
these days with the invisible world. The opinion he
thus expressed may be taken as a type of many pulpit
utterances by clergymen, who condemn what they have
not investigated, who apply hard epithets to those better
informed than themselves, and who, unknowingly but
carelessly, grievously mislead the simple people who
trust in them. Nowadays, the exceedingly receptive
persons thus taught are chiefly nursemaids and children,
who are sent to church by the home authorities because it
is a respectable and conventional thing that they should
be there, and because the more influential members ofthe
family being thus represented by proxy, have a lame but
sufficient excuse for their own absence. “ Oh ! I could
not go this morning, but Mary has taken Ethel and
Wilfred,” and Mrs. Grundy, being mightily anxious for
a good or bad excuse for her own frequent absence, is
quite satisfied with the explanation.
Wherefore these evil times on which the better por¬
tion of the clergy have fallen ? Ey “ better portion ”
is meant the many gentlemen of pure lives and culture,
who also believe in the doctrines they preach—not the
large number who have taken holy orders for the sole
purpose of getting a living for themselves, and are
troubled by few thoughts of any kind outside this all-
absorbing first principle. The reason of the decadence
is to be found in the unreality and the artificiality of
ecclesiastical dogmas and ceremonies, the life and the
spirit of which have long since fled, so that the teachers
being now destitute of the living power, point their
hearers to the ashes of the dead past, to the records
showing that in the days of old the things of the spirit
were vital realities. The stained windows, the
groined roof, the priest’s vestments, are all conventional;
the ritual is stereotyped, the tone of the preacher and
the sentiments he utters are equally^cold and lifeless ;
apathy, or closed eyelids, or restlessness may be seen
stamped upon the countenance of many a listener, a few
devotees excepted, and the conventional monotone of the
preacher conveys the idea that he only half believes his
own utterances. Where have departed the eye of fire
and the burning spirit? Where the trances, the
visions, the physical manifestations, the power of heal¬
ing, and the other gifts of the spirit, promised by the
highest authority of the church to His true followers ?
These are now to be found almost exclusively among the
Spiritualists condemned by Mr. Yates as fanatics.
Spiritualists prove without preaching what Mr. Yates
preaches without proving. The very text he took for
his sermon, about the voice of the Lord calling Samuel,
was an example of clairaudiance, and this kind of
mediumship is common in England at the present day,
so tends to prove that the narrative about Samuel is
something better than mere tradition. Joan of Are in
like manner heard voices of angels, and was thereby
enabled to save France. Swedenborg heard a voice,
which he, like Samuel, believed to be the voice of the
Lord, and it was indeed the voice of as great a Lord as
Swedenborg was capable of conceiving, and through
this channel of communication he received from the
higher world teachings of infinitely greater value to
mankind that any revealed through the instrumentality
of Samuel, though mixed, probably, with a considerable
18
July 10, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
percentage of error, the scientific laws governing me-
diumship being little known by him, and not yet un¬
derstood to any very great extent even by Spiritualists.
A chapter read from the New Testament shortly before
Mr. Yates began his sermon, told how Peter was re¬
leased from his bonds and from prison by spirits. Is
it more fanatical to believe such things on the authority
of tradition, backed by a threat from Mr. Yates and
others of eternal perdition if we refuse so to do, than
to accept it from personal knowledge, after seeing
mediums released from sealed bonds and gyves of all
kinds in the twinkling of an eye, which is one of the
very commonest physical manifestations in Spiritualism?
We have seen it scores of times, and so have hundreds
of London Spiritualists.
There is a more or less strong correlation between
the thoughts of primitive people in all ages; there is
also a strong similarity between some of the thoughts
of savages and the thoughts of children. Sir John
Lubbock, in illustration of this, once publicly narrated
how his little girl said to his little boy, “ Johnny ! If
you eat so much goose, you’ll go silly !”—a remark
embodying a similar idea to that which induces the
savage to eat the exceedingly nasty flesh of the tiger,
in order to make himself fierce in battle. Children,
like savages, are often cruel to each other, and their
dreams are more or less realities to them. The ideas
which resulted in the carving of many a heathen god,
perhaps came from the uncanny dreams of a savage
while asleep in a cave, after overgorging himself with
putrid flesh: indeed, some such state of mind would
have been a fitting birth-place for the dogma of eternal
. punishment, one of the greatest libels against the
Almighty ever invented by man. Charles .Kingsley has
said that the untutored savage on going forth into
the world divides, everything he sees into two great
classes—firstly, into those which he can eat, se¬
condly, into those which can eat him—but he
soon discovers that poisonous plants, the fall of rocks,
$nd the lightning flash can injure him, consequently he
jumps to the rash conclusion that an angry god
causes these thihgs to hurt him, and forthwith
seeks to propitiate the evil deity conjured
up by his imagination. A trace of the same
kind of thought ran last Sunday through a part
of the sermon which Mr. Yates delivered to the
large proportion of women and children listening to
him, for he told them how God spoke to them in the
thunderstorm. A thunderstorm is caused by too great
an accumulation of electrical potential energy in
minute globules of water formed by the condensation
of aqueous vapour in the upper layers of the atmo¬
sphere, which accumulation might be drawn off silently
by means of a large number of pointed metallic rods,
properly applied. In an analogous manner, when a
New River reservoir is too full, the surplus water may
be drawn off through pipes. Hence to tell scientific
people that God speaks to them in the thunderstorm, is
exactly as irreverent as telling them that He speaks to
them in an overfull reservoir of water belonging to the
New River Company; but the argument was good
enough for Mr. Yates and many of the juveniles he
was addressing, and would have been an unanswerable
argument to a savage, all such listeners being aware
that a thunder-cloud discharges itself with a big bang.
There is nevertheless much unintentional irreverence
M describing this mere mechanical noise as the voice of
the Almighty to His chosen and unchosen people.
The speaker of last Sunday was probably unaware
of the large number of persons of world-wide eminence
in literature, science, art, rank, and general culture
whom he condemned as fanatics ; should he desire en¬
lightenment on this head, he may study No. 59 of The
Spiritualist, which is full of information for inquirers.
In the meantime if the clergy desire to retain that
eminence among people of high education, which they
held in the days of old when they were the leaders of
thought, they had better pay less attention to dead
forms, and seek those gifts of the spirit stated in the
New Testament to he the distinctive characteristics of
true followers of Christ, the very gifts in which Mr.
Yates expressed his total disbelief last Sunday. When
the clergy teach the young that leading the life is of
infinitely more importance than creed, dogma, and out¬
ward ceremony, when they encourage the teaching of
the sciences, and warn their hearers that it is an act of
credulous superstition to believe anything that cannot
be unmistakably proved to be true, and when they
show that the gifts of the spirit described from one end
of the Bible to the other are not the myths of tradition,
but powers which distinguish true from false churches
at the present day, then will there be real life in their
teachings, and the living spirit will reanimate the dry
bones of the Church.
THE ANNEAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The second National Annual Conference of Spirit¬
ualists will be held in London early next month, when
many visitors from the provinces are usually in town;
so it is to be hoped there will be a good attendance,
and that a creditable supply of papers to be read at
the meetings will be sent in as soon as possible. There
will also be two Spiritualistic meetings at the Crystal
Palace.
The Conference is under the general management of
a committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, and several sub-committees will attend to
the various meetings and the getting up of the soiree. No
other particulars of the proceedings have reached us,
beyond the ample details given in the advertisements
upon another page. We think the time allotted for
the morning meetings too long—so long as to be weari¬
some to the listeners. This proved to be the case at
Liverpool, so that after the first morning, listeners who
would gladly have heard everything, had it been rea¬
sonably possible, walked in and out at different parts of
the proceedings, with the exception of the tired officials
who could get nobody to relieve them. If the morning
sessions were shortened by one hour, and the afternoon
sessions by half an hour, it would be a vast improve¬
ment; the papers and discussions would be enhanced
in quality by a little enforced brevity under the
generalship of a good chairman. There is a great
consumption of mental energy in a good meeting of
two hours’ duration on the part of those who listen
closely to all the arguments advanced. After the
expiration of those two hours the hall will be like a
public thoroughfare, in consequence of people walking
in and out, as was the case at Liverpool. As a general
rule, the less influential the body, and the lower the
quality of its discussions, the longer are its meetings.
Exeter Hall is pre-eminently the place for long-winded
orations, and the Royal Institution for short ones. At
the latter place the meetings only last one hour, and
the greatest philosophers of the age are compelled to
close their remarks at the expiration of the sixty
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
July 10, 1874.
minutes, when the clock rings a hell to warn them to
to stop, if, as is usually the case, they have not already
done so.
One of the questions for consideration at the Con¬
ference is “ How to promote national organisation.”
One way of promoting it is to show that its officers
always get up good meetings, and send listeners away
anxious for more, instead of wearied out by the pro¬
ceedings.
The thanks of all Spiritualists are due to the earnest
friends of the cause, who are giving so much time and
labour to the work of getting up the forthcoming
meetings.
MATERIALISATION SEANCES IN AMERICA.
In' this number of The Spiritualist there is much of
a startling nature about materialisation seances in
America, and manifestations are recorded far in ad¬
vance in their nature of any yet witnessed in England.
As in the past, so in the future, their reality will pro¬
bably be brought home to us by their development
here, but in the meantime why do not Spiritualists
there put their best witnesses. to attest their most
advanced manifestations as we do here ? A clear un¬
exaggerated description of the Eddy seances, or of the
appearance of spirits through the mediumship of Mrs.
Andrews, of Moravia, N.Y., from the pen of Mr. Robert
Dale Owen, or Mr. Epes Sargent, would be of interest
to Spiritualists all over the world. In many of the
records of these manifestations, the slipshod composi¬
tion, the obvious tendency to enthusiastic exaggeration,
and the omission of all details of philosophical value,
prove that the intellect and ability which ought to
be brought to bear upon these important phenomena,
have not been exercised to the extent which the
importance of the subject deserves.
Eurther, they should always put on record full de¬
tails of how the mediumship developed, stating the
minutest particulars, for it is only by collecting a vast
mass of such observations from different sources, that
the laws governing the phenomena can be discovered,
and the conditions of use or of danger to mediums in
course of development be understood. In another way
the experiences of one medium may be of use to
another ; the severe tests Miss Cook has passed through
for three years, render the same unnecessary and un¬
desirable in the case of Miss Showers, except for the
determination of philosophical points. There are, per¬
haps, materialists who desire them over the question in
their minds of “ genuineness,” but the longer they
have to wait for the double evidence the better, since
they hare no business inside the spiritual movement;
they should first gain a little religious education by
learning that there are such things as moral integrity
and spiritual truth in the world, and that there is a
state of society they are not yet fit to enter, in which
the word of one person to another is sufficient, and
stronger in its integrity than any chains or bonds. The
fugitive nature of many of the phenomena of Spiritualism,
and the mental conditions surrounding them, seem as if
specially framed to give men this religious education in
a practical way. Nobody can watch for a lengthened
period the influence of spiritual manifestations over the
minds of the observers, without seeing how efficiently
they separate the wheat from the chaff, in bringing,
irrespective of clan, or caste, or education, adherents
worth having into the inner circles of the spiritual
movement. Is this an accidental circumstance, or are
the manifestations purposely designed to produce the
result ? Once take away the influence of mental con¬
ditions upon the manifestations, render them precise,
and make them matters merely of experimental physics,
the religious character of the movement and its reform¬
ing powers will be destroyed. As we have said before,
a fact in physics, such as the exact length by ‘measure¬
ment of an iron crowbar, may be believed in both by a
bishop and a burglar, without establishing any spiritual
union between them, or tending to make the world
better and happier. It is different with the facts of
Spiritualism.
THE READING OF SEALED LETTERS BY A
SPIRIT.
BY PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN-.
A very striking fact in direct writing was recently
obtained, by Miss Cook at my request, putting my
sealed letter at night on her dressing table, with some
pencils and sheets of paper near it. The letter, closely
sealed by me, was further put into a second envelope by
Mr. William Crookes, who also sealed it several times
with his private signet.
When it was sent back to me with Katie’s answer,
his seals, as well as mine, were quite intact.
Katie copied the contents of my sealed letter to her,
word for word, without a mistake or omission, on a
separate sheet of paper. She also wrote an answer to
me, with the following postscript:—
“ I have given a copy of your letter, dear friend, to
show you I have really read it. I must trust to your
good nature to excuse any errors, as I have never done
anything like this before.—A. Morgan or Katie King.”
Emile, Prince of Sayn- Wittgenstein.
Nieder Walluf, on the Rhine.
THE STUDY OF PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
This number of The Spiritualist is chiefly devoted to the
physical manifestations of Spiritualism, and contains little
about the higher phases of the subject, such as the revelations
given by trance and clairvoyance. These higher revelations
are, like the lower, considerably coloured by the general
mental characteristics of the medium, and it is chiefly by
studying the lower manifestations, where all the results are so
material and so tangible, that laws can more easily be un¬
ravelled, and exact knowledge be brought to bear upon the
higher phenomena. For instance, writing mediumship is one
of the higher branches of Spiritualism, so far as its general
teachings are concerned, yet we have just discovered an unsus¬
pected connecting link between the materialised full form mani¬
festations now going on in London, and writing mediumship
like that of Messrs. Flint and Mansfield, of New York. We
have not space to give the details this week, but will do so
very soon.
Mrs. Cora. L. Y. Tappan and Mr. J. J. Morse, both of
them excellent trance mediums, are now lecturing in the
Yorkshire district, and letters to them may be addressed to
the care of Mr. G. R. Hinde, Eastbourne, Darlington, York¬
shire.
The Athenjetjm has announced to its readers the
intention of the Countess of Caithness to expend F.£l,000 in
the introduction of translations of Allan Kardec’s works into
England. It is to be hoped they will be very literally
translated, and that any comments or additions will be
appended, and not mixed with the original text.
Marriage.—We have much ',pleas'are in making the
following announcement, sent to us for publication.—“ On the
30th ult., at the Rev. John Sharp’s church, Hampstead, Arthur,
second son of the late James Maltby, of Hanover-plaee,N.W., to
Sarah, eldest daughter of R. Smith, also of Hanover-place,
N.W.”
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 10, 1874.
ENGLISH MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS
UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
By far the most severe and prolonged test seances ever held in
England, are those through which Miss Cook has passed, and
that too under the eyes of trained and educated observers. A
friend has kindly sent us the following summary of a few of
the results, which he has compiled from some of the records
of seances published in the back numbers of this journal.
Two or three seances with Miss Showers are included:—
The Spiritualist, No. 42, Dec. 15th, 1872.
Dec. 4th, 1872. Seance at Hackney. The medium, Miss
Cook, tied with thread by the spirits. Knots then examined
and sealed by Mr. Henderson, who also tried various tests
by fastening threads to the medium, and her chair and sealing
them likewise, The ends of the threads were brought out¬
side the cabinet, and held by Mr. Henderson and Mr. Black¬
burn, in order that the medium should not rise up from her
chair without detection. These tests are fully detailed in the
account drawn up at the time, from the joint dictation of
Messrs. Henderson and Guppy. A very successful seance.
Several spirit faces appeared, one of them black, seen in a
good light. All seals and knots found intact after the seance.
Witnesses:—Amelia Corner, 3, St. Thomas-square, Hackney;
Charles Blackburn, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester; A. L.
Henderson, 49, King William-street; Samuel Guppy, 1, Mor-
land-villas, Highbury-hill-park; W. H. Harrison, Wilmin-villa,
Heme-hill; and Mr. Henry Cook, Mrs. Cook, and family.
In this number are also letters from Mrs. Corner, Mr. T. W.
Taunton, and others ; respecting phenomena witnessed under
test conditions through Miss Cook’s mediumship.
The Spiritualist, No. 43, Jan. Isi, 1873.
Dec. 18th, 1872. Seance at Hackney, Miss Cook tied with
string round the waist and sealed; the end of the string
passed out of the cabinet and held by one of the sitters.
Several spirit faces seen, and a letter written at the window of
the cabinet by “ Katie.”
Witnesses:—J. M. Gully, M.D., Streatham; F. Piercy, Pall
Mall; B. Coleman, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; W. H.
Harrison, Herne-hill; and “ M. A.”
In this number are also letters from Messrs. B. Coleman, H.
M. Dunphy, Enmore Jones, and G. Fraser, giving accounts of
phenomena witnessed under test conditions through the
mediumship of Miss Cook.
The Spiritualist, No. 45, Feb. 1st, 1873.
Jan. 20th, 1873. Seance at Hackney. Miss Cook secured
as on previous occasions. Spirit faces seen. “ Katie ” changed
her face from white to black in a few seconds several times,
and sewed up a hole in the curtain to show that her hands
were not mechanical.
Witnesses :—Mrs. L. Makdougall Gregory, 21,Green-street,
Grosvenor-square; Sir William Dunbur, Bart., Walwyn’s
Castle, Pembrokeshire; H. M. Dunphy, 3, Essex-court,
Temple.
In this number are also letters from Messrs. Luxmoore,
Dunphy, and Dawe, giving accounts of phenomena witnessed
under test conditions through the mediumship of Miss Cook.
The Spiritualist, No. 46, Feb. 15th, 1873.
Feb. 12th, 1873. Seance at Hackney. Miss Cook secured
by sealed strings and a handkerchief. Several faces seen,
some of them masculine faces with beards, and other phenomena.
Seals and fastenings intact at close of seance.
Witnesses:—C. Blackburn, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manches¬
ter ; F. Piercy and A. Piercy, 12, Stock Orchard-villas, Hollo¬
way ; James and Ada Mankiewicz, 37, Upper Bedford-place,
Russell-square; Amelia Corner, 3, St. Thomas-square, Hack¬
ney ; H. M. Dunphy, 3, Essex-court, Temple; W. H.
Harrison, Herne-hill; J. M. Gully, M.D., Streatham.
The Spiritualist, No. 47, March 1st, 1873.
Letters from Messrs. Blackburn and Tapp, and Miss
Eislingbury, narrating phenomena obtained through the
mediumship of Miss Cook.
The Spiritualist, No. 48, March 15th, 1873.
Letter from Mr. Luxmoore, illustrated with diagrams of Miss
Cook’s cabinet, in which the various tests used are fully and
accurately described, Also it is narrated how the medium
was secured by a lock of her own hair being brought through an
aperture in the door of the cabinet and fastened outside in
view of the sitters. Spirit faces and hands then appeared
high above. Other seances also described, at which Katie
appeared in “ full form.” Also letters and corroborative
testimony from Dr. Pardon and Mrs. Corner.
March 12th, 1873. Seance at Hackney. Miss Cook’s hands
tied and sealed. “Katie” walked out of cabinet, her hands
perfectly free. At the second seance Miss Cook secured by her
hair as described above. Faces seen and hands, which were felt
by the sitters.
Witnesses:—J. E. Purdon, M.B., Sandown, Isle of Wight;
H. M. Dunphy, 3, Essex-court, Temple; John Jones, Bala,
North Wales; James and Ada Mankiewicz,37,Upper Bedford-
place, Russell-square; J. C. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-square,
Hyde Park ; W. H. Harrison, Wilmin Yilla, Herne-hill.
The Spiritualist, No. 52, May 15th, 1873,
Contains a full account of four seances held at Hackney under
stringent test conditions, at which photographs of “Katie
King” were taken by the magnesium light, Miss Cook, the
medium, having been searched by Mrs. and Miss Corner, and
then tied and sealed by Mr. Luxmoore before seances commenced.
Pictures of “ Katie King” given.
Witnesses:—Amelia Corner, 3, St. Thomas-square, Hackney;
Caroline Corner, 3, St. Thomas-square, Hackney; J. C.
Luxmoore,-16, Gloucester-square,“Hyde-park; G. R. Tapp,
18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park; W. H. Harrison,
Wilmin-villa, Herne-hill.
Also a letter, with diagrams, from Mr. Luxmoore, describing
the tests used at these seances, also some novel phenomena
which took place thereat.
The Spiritualist, No. 53, June Isi, 1873.
Seance at Hackney. Miss Cook tied and sealed by a
correspondent of the Daily Telegraph. ■ Four photographs of
Katie obtained by magnesium light under strictest test con¬
ditions.
Witnesses:—Dr. J. M. Gully, Streatham; Maurice Davies,
Kensington; Miss Katherine Poyntz; Mr. and two Misses
Withall, Brixton; G. R. Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove,
Mildmay-park; W. H. Harrison, Wilmin-villa, Herne-hill.
The Spiritualist, No. 63, Nov. 1st, 1873.
October 7th, 1873. Seance at 16, Gloucester-square, the
town house of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, a justice of the peace for the
county of Devon. Miss Cook searched before the very satis¬
factory seance by two ladies, and tied and sealed by Mr.
Luxmoore. October 23rd, 1873. Another seance in the same
house, and the tests applied. M, Aksakof of St. Petersburg,
went into the dark room with a lamp directly “Katie”
disappeared, and found the medium tied and sealed as at
commencement.
October 28th, 1873. Seance at same place. Medium
searched, tied and sealed as before. Yery good phenomena
obtained, Katie bringing out articles of furniture from the
dark room to the sitters outside.
Witnesses:—Mr. and Mrs. Mankiewicz, Peihbridge-gardens,
Bayswater; H. M. Dunphy, Essex-court, Temple; M. Alexandre
Aksakof, St. Petersburg; Mrs. Whyte, 33, Richmond-road,
Bayswater; Mrs., Miss and Mr. E. Corner, 3, St. Thomas-
square, Hackney; S. T. Speer, M.D., Alexandra-road, St. John’s-
wood; G. R. Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park;
W. H. Harrison, Wilmin-villa, Herne-hiU.
The Spiritualist, No. 64, November llth, 1873,
Contains letters from Mr. Luxmoore and Mr. Oxley, of Man¬
chester, giving accounts of phenomena obtained through the
mediumship of Miss Cook, under strict test conditions.
The Spiritualist, No. 68, December 12th, 1873,
Contains letter from Mr. B. Coleman, giving account of a
test seance, with Miss Cook as medium, given on the 18th
November, 1873, at which a letter to Judge Edmonds, of New
York, was written by “Katie ” in presence of a large circle, also
descriptive letters from Mr. Blackburn and others on the
subject.
The Spiritualist, No. 71, January 2nd, 1874,
Contains a letter from Mr. T. Blyton, describing a seance
under certain test conditions with Miss Showers, when spirit
faces and other manifestations were obtained.
The Spiritualist, No. 76, February 6th, 1874,
Contains letters from Mr.Crookes, F.R.S., and G. R. Tapp,
giving minute details of the phenomena observed at Miss
Cook’s seances, which show that “ Katie King ” is a distinct
and separate being from her medium.
July 10, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
The Spiritualist, No, , February IMh, 1874,
Contains a letter from Emile, Prince of Sayn-Wittgenstein>
describing certain phenomena seen under test conditions, at
Miss Cook’s seances.
The Spiritualist, No. 78, February 20th, 1874,
Contains a letter from Dr. Gully, respecting Miss Cook’s
sea/nces and the tests applied thereat.
The Spiritualist, No. 79, February 21th, 1874,
Contains an account of two seances at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 27, Green-street, Grosvenor-square. The medium,
Miss Showers, was tied with tape by Mr. Herbert Noyes, B.A.,
and Dr. W. L. Richardson, the knots being sealed by the
Baron Du Potet. Spirit faces were obtained, and Miss Showers
found afterwards tied and sealed to the piano, as at the com¬
mencement. Also of a subsequent seance at which Mr.
Qowper-Temple, M.P., was present, when Baron Du Potet,
who is an experienced mesmerist, tried his hardest to mes¬
merise Florence Maples without success, though he could
easily mesmerise Miss Showers.
■Witnesses:—Mr. Cowper-Temple, M.P.,. Mrs. Cowper-
Temple, Baron Du Potet, Lady , Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Dr. Richardson, Rev. W. Haweis, Mrs. Haweis, Mr. Percival,
“ M.A.,” and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Spiritualist, No. 82, March 20th, 1874.
In this number is given a detailed account of the test ex¬
periments tried by Mr. Cromwell Yarley, F.R.S., by means of
electrical apparatus, upon the mediumship of Miss Cook, at
the house of Mr. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-
park. These experiments proved beyond all question that Miss
Cook and Katie were two distinct and separate beings, and
that while Katie was outside the curtain of the dark room,
standing before the sitters, Miss Cook was inside on her chair.
Witnesses:—Cromwell Yarley, F.R.S., Mr. Crookes, F.R.S.,
Mrs. Crookes, J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Cook, W. H. Harrison,
G. R. Tapp.
The Spiritualist, No. 84, April 3rd, 1874,
Contains an article by Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., in which he
narrates how, at a seance held on the 12th March, 1874, at
Hackney, Miss Cook being the medium, he was permitted
by Katie to obtain the crucial test of seeing the medium and
the materialised spirit together in the dark room by the light
of his phosphorus lamp. He states how three successive
times he examined the prostrate figure of the medium and
the standing form of Katie, assuring himself by touch and
sight that they were two distinct and separate persons.
This number also contains a letter from “ M.A.,” describing
an excellent seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, Miss
Showers being the medium.
The Spiritualist, No. 85, April 10th, 1874,
Contains a letter from Mr. G. R. Tapp, in which he
describes a seance at the house of Mr. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-
square, W., on the 29th March, 1874. The medium was Miss
Showers, who had never been in the house before. Some very
remarkable phenomena took place. The spirit Florence came
out and walked round the drawing-room, played and sang, sat
down and talked with those present, and afterwards allowed
Mr. Tapp and Mr. Luxmoore to go into the dark room, draw
back the curtain to admit the light, see her and her medium
together, and touch both medium and spirit at the same time,
thus establishing the fact of their separate identity.
This number contains a letter from Mr. B. Coleman
respecting Miss Cook’s seances; also a letter from Mr. H.
Oholmondeley Pennell, in which he states that the conclusive
experiments of his friend, Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., have con¬
vinced him of the genuineness of Miss Cook’s mediumship, and
he in a gentlemanly way apologises to Miss Cook for his
former suspicions of her good faith.
The Spiritualist, No. 91, May 22nd, 1874,
Contains a letter from Mrs. Corner, in which that lady states,
how herself, Miss Corner, and Mrs. Showers, at a seance held
at Dalston, saw Miss Showers'and the spirit Florence at the
same time, and touched them both at the same time.
The Spiritualist, No. 92, May 20th, 1874.
May 18th and 10th, 1874.—Seances at Hackney. Medium,
Miss Cook. Farewell seances of the spirit Katie King, not
under test conditions, but at one or two of the seances tests
volunteered by the spirits, and remarkable phenomena
observed.
Witnesses.—Mr. W. Crookes, F. R. S.; Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory; Miss Douglas; Mr. H. M. Dunphy; Mrs. Ross
Church; Mr. and Mrs. Mankiewicz; Miss Katharine Poyntz;
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Crookes; Miss Alice Crookes ; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A. ; Mrs. Corner; M. Gustave de Yeh; Mr. E.
Boulland, LL.D.; Mr. Henry Bielfield; Mr. Enmore Jones
and family; Mr. H. M. Dunphy; Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr.
and Mrs. Cook and family ; Mr., Mrs., and Miss Blyton, and
others.
In the description of Katie King’s final seance, some remark¬
able phenomena are recorded.
Witnesses.—Mr. Crookes, F.R.S.; Mrs. Corner; Mrs. Ross
Church (Florence Marryat); Mr. G. R. Tapp ; Mr. and Mrs.
Cook and family; and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
THE SEANCE AT MR. SERJEANT COX’S,
The following comments about the seance at Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s are from the pen of Mr. William Howitt,
and were published in the last number of the Christian
Spiritualist:—
ME. WILLIAM HOWITT OH THE MOAT MOUNT SEANCE.
Bur what is this I see ? My good spiritual brother, Ben¬
jamin Coleman, I mean, has sent me the Spiritualist of May
15th, and there the first thing my eyes fall on is a dreadful
account of the treatment of two ladies by Mr. Serjeant Cox,
perpetrated in his own house where they had gone by his own
most pressing invitation. Can this be really true ?
I know that Serjeant Cox has been a diligent attendant at
spirit seances for, I suppose, a dozen years. I have seen him
there a great many times; and I know that he says that in all
that time he has not seen anything but a Force. This simply
means that his eyes are very bad. Millions of men during
this period have seen plainly enough both Spiritual manifesta¬
tions and Spirits. That Serjeant Cox could not see any,
simply means that his eyes are millions of times worse than
other people’s. That is all; but this affair is something
different!
As for Mrs. Showers, though we have all been praying for sun¬
shine for this month past, I say “ Showers for ever !” When I
read her noble defence, not of herself or daughter alone, but the
defence of the whole world of honest Mediums, my heart
thanked her with a great leap—thanked her in the name of all
Spiritdom. In the name of womanhood, in the name of all
truth and virtue, in the name of honour and honesty, I cry
still “ Showers for ever!” Ah ! those were really thunder
showers that ought to clear the atmosphere for ever of
crotchet and crotchet-mongers. The man with a stubborn
crotchet no more knows whither it will carry him than he who
unsuspectingly plunges into the ocean, and is drawn by the
underflow to miserable death.
Mr. Cox has from the first made resistance to a power
palpable to everyone but himself as invincible. The stone cut
out of the mountain without hands is rolling on resistlessly to
fill the whole earth, and will crush the most Herculean
opponent with the ignominious ease with which a worm is
crushed by a garden roller. But from the moment that the
Spirits entered visibly on the stage, walking, talking, shaking
hands with scores and hundreds of people, quite as wide awake
as Mr. Cox himself, his case was desperate. Every day the
Katies, Florences, and John Kings, must have more and more
pressed on his convictions utter defeat. The state of his
mind must have been terrible. This case of Miss Showers
shows ;that he had gone frenzied. Chagrin had blotted out
from his mind all judgment and reflection on consequences.
The result has been most damaging. Henceforth, Moat
Mount will to all mediums mean Ambush Hall. Henceforth
they will see the Cox escutcheon supported by Psychic Force
regardant, and Physical Force rampant; a Psyche and Her¬
cules holding between them a net!
Let Mr. Cox, however, remember that St. Paul, after his
perverse career, struck down by the outflash of heaven, on the
highway to Damascus, blinded for a moment, rose the peerless
and princely Apostle of the Gentiles. Every friend of Mr. Cox
should now urge him to abandon the hopeless contest with
Spiritualism, as he values his reputation as a gentleman, or
his peace of mind as a man. Spiritualism is, and long has
been, based on evidence more fixed than a floor of adamant.
It is based on a myriad of facts, as irresistible as those on
which the most unassailable history is based. It needs no
experiments of Messrs. Crookes and Varley to buttress it.
Those gentlemen were not at hand to authenticate the miracles
of Christ, and yet they stand. Millions of people of sound
intellect and shrewd observation have tested it by the royal
proof of common sense. Electricity may be necessary for
philosophers. Like the hard-shell Baptists of America,
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 10, 1874.
the hard shells of their materialistic schooling may demand
electric or galvanic shocks to break them. They may be need¬
ful for them, they are superfluous for us. As Mr. Coleman
remarks, we knew all this before, they can teach us nothing
that we did not know before they took up the subject.
Let Mr. Cox then halt I The Spiritual Hydra has hun¬
dreds more heads than the ancient one that Hercules slew.
Already Miss Showers revives. Already Katie and John King
and others more amazing in America, defy all mortal blades
to decapitate them. Already the life-barque of Mr. Cox
evidently feels the terrible teaching of the Niagara of Destiny.
Delay must be destruction! Let him put about his helm—
turn—diverge—evade—escape! Let him put all his soul into
his oars, and steer with a blessed obliquity for the mainland of
truth, adding one more to her innumerable and illustrious
triumphs. Let him consent to be courageous—to be wise and
to be saved 1
Mr. Serjeant Cox, who began the public controversy,
replies to objectors and closes it in the following
letter:—
M"R. SEBJEANT COX’S REPLY TO HIS OPPONENTS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Having no inclination for a personal controversy, and
no leisure for a protracted one, I propose to answer my
objectors by a succinct statement of the case, which I will then
submit to the calm judgment of the sober-minded of your
readers.
We are discussing a great scientific problem, and it cannot
be permitted that the true question at issue should be hidden
in a cloud of dust attempted to be thrown about it by raising
personal controversies. Whether my daughter had or had not
a right to open the curtain, and exhibit Miss Showers pre¬
senting herself as a spirit, or whether by asking for more and
better evidence of the miracle of incarnation, I am impugning
the testimony of the witnesses who have given evidence, in no
manner affects the real inquiry. All that science asks, and
justice and truth require, is to ascertain the very fact. The
means by which it was ascertained is wholly unimportant to
the truth-seeking investigator. But I must be permitted to
state in her justification, that no breach of hospitality could
possibly be involved in the mere opening of a curtain to see
more plainly if a guest who presented herself professing to be
a ghost, was really a ghost or not. Whether the imposition
she discovered was conscious or unconscious, it was not the
less an unreality the ascertainment of which was in . the
interest of truth and science. For myself, who believe that
unconscious deception is the frequent result of the eondition
of trance, the excuse offered was readily accepted as sufficient;
but to my family, who were strangers to the phenomena, it
could not but appear to have been a trick deliberately prac¬
tised upon them by a person received by them as one in whose
good faith they had confidence. Nor could I impart to them
my own conviction of her unconsciousness. Their indignation
was therefore not unnatural.
I have said that there was no mistake about the fact itself.
Conscious, or unconscious, “Florence” was Miss Showers
herself, beyond all doubt.
Since my last letter, I have obtained a confirmation of my
experience that your readers at least will not dispute.
Mr. Crookes informs me, in answer to my inquiry as to the
results of his trial of the famous electrical test with Miss
Showers, that on both occasions this test proved beyond ques¬
tion that the alleged spirit “Florence” was Miss Showers herself;
and that another test he tried established the same fact if pos¬
sible still more conclusively. He believes that she was acting in a
trance, but this does not alter the fact that she had with him,
as with me, dressed herself, or been dressed, in the spirit dress,
and presented herself as “Florence Maples.”
Mr. Crookes states to me, in the extracts from the letters
which you have printed, that he does not deem the false pre¬
sentations to him revealed.by his tests as conclusive that, on
other occasions, “ Florence ” may not be genuine. But all
must admit that if she, the spirit j“ Florence,” was found to
be Miss Showers herself, whenever a good test was tried, the
most conclusive tests are demanded before any manifesta¬
tion can be accepted as genuine.
There is a further remarkable fact. “ Florence Maples ”
appeared with “Katie” more than once at Mr. Crookes’s.
“ Katie,” being questioned if “Florence ” was or was not Miss
Showers herself, refused to answer. She must have known
the truth, yet, knowing the doubt, she could not remove it.
Mr. Coleman’s assertion that my demand for better proof
throws doubt on the veracity of at least one hundred persons
is simply absurd. I do not question that at least one hundred
persons have seen in full light a solid human form calling
itself a spirit. This fact is undoubted. The fact in issue is if
that which they saw was not the body of the medium ; only
three or four of the hundred profess to have seen the medium
and the spirit in full view, and in full light, ’at the same
moment of time; and surely when these three or four are
called to prove an apparent impossibility, they may, without
offence, be asked questions as to the circumstances under
which they witnessed the wonder.
For my own part, I do not for a moment question their
veracity. I have no doubt they are as desirous as I am to ascer¬
tain the truth. But science is bound, to reconcile an amazing
matter, to require the most perfect proof that can possibly be
produced, and to be content with no evidence short of the
very best, and with no test that is not crucial.
I will now, in conclusion, state the whole case as it would
be put to a jury by an impartial judge, my jury, in this case,
being the entire public, who are possessed of common sense
and a cool judgment. For making thejargument more clear, I
adopt the familiar form of a summing up.
The question you (the public) are ito determine, arises
thus. The medium is placed behind a curtain in a dark room
or cabinet. After a certain interval of time, a figure resem¬
bling the medium in face and form, wearing a white head¬
dress, and a white robe, comes before the curtain, walks, talks,
kisses, and is kissed, breaths, perspires, has limbs, lungs, hair,
nails, teeth, saliva; eats, sings, writes, and plays the piano.
But that figure affirms that it is not the medium it so
resembles, but the spirit of “ Annie Morgan,” or of “ Florence
Maples ” (as the case may be), who died, the one about two
hundred years ago, the other more than one hundred years
ago ; and that the body of the medium herself is at that very
moment lying in a trance behind the curtain. The fact for
you to try is if that figure, undoubtedly existing before the
curtain, is or is not the veritable body of the medium who
was placed behind the curtain ? The alleged fact is, according
to all our knowledge of the operations of the physical laws,
and all our conceptions of spiritual existence, impossible.
But, nevertheless, it is alleged to be true. A fact cannot be
tried by argument; it must be determined by evidence; but
that evidence will require to be more or less cogent according
to the probability or improbability of the fact asserted.
The fact now claiming recognition is in the highest degree
improbable, and therefore requires the highest degree of proof
that human testimony could afford. And fortunately there
is in this case no difficulty whatever in producing such proof.
The assertion is, that the form outside the curtain is not the
medium who was placed inside the curtain, but another and
distinct individual existence. This assertion, if true, can be
proved with the utmost ease and certainty, instantly and
absolutely, by the simple process of exhibiting the medium
and the figure plainly to the eyes of all present at the same
moment. This simple proof would settle the question for
ever beyond further dispute. But this proof is refused. You
will ask yourselves why ? This refusal is not conclusive
against the fact, but it raises the gravest suspicion.
There is another proof almost as sufficient. Mark with
chalk or paint the forehead of the medium, so that in the
dark she could not restore it if erased. If then the figure
appears without the mark, and the identical mark is after¬
wards found upon the forehead of the medium, then a sepa¬
rate existence will be proved beyond a doubt. Or sprinkle a
strong scent over the figure when without; and if the medium
afterwards proves to be scented their identity is shown. It is
said that these tests have been refused. At all eveats they
have not been tried. This is in itself an element of doubt.
Again, the facts that point to the identity of the spirit with
the medium are extremely cogent. I put them to you as they
appear upon my notes.
1. Whensoever a good test has been employed, the result
has been either to prove certainly that the figure was the me¬
dium herself, or to raise a strong presumption that so it was. *
Mr. Yolckman caught hold of the spirit Katie, but she was
forced from his arms and thrown by Mr. Luxmoore (as stated
by himself) into the cabinet. Now, if Katie is a spirit, as
asserted, if she does in fact dematerialise herself in a moment,
* The experiments and observations of Mr. 0. F. Variey, Mr. William
Oropkes, Mr. Dunphy, Mr. Luxmoore, and some others besides, not only
flatly contradict this leading assumption of Mr. Serjeant Cox, but actually
prove the contrary, as stated in their signed and published evidence.
They have seen the materialised form and the medium at the same time
This assumption is the vital part of Serjeant Cox’s letter,—En.
July 10, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
23
as witnesses declare who have seen her vanish instantly, if
she can thus resolve herself into the elements, she could not
need a forcible rescue from a man’s grasp, nor to be thrown
into the cabinet by the arms of another man. She had but
to melt away in Mr. Yolckman’a grasp as she melts in the
cabinet.
The alleged spirit, Florence, was distinctly shown at my
house to be Miss Showers herself.
At Mr. Crookes’s the electrical test was tried twice by that
gentleman, and proved to demonstration that Florence then
also was Miss Showers in person.
Another test was tried by Mr. Crookes, in which the fingers
of the spirit Florence were dipped in a dye, and the stain was
found by him upon the fingers of Miss Showers.
Although Katie and Florence were together both before and
behind the curtain more than once, Katie has steadily refused
to answer an inquiry as to the reality of “ Florence.”
But the most inexplicable fact remains. The spirit Katie
asserts that her name was Annie Morgan, and that she lived
on earth about two hundred years ago. Nevertheless, she does
not now speak the ideas or language, nor has she the manner
and bearing of the people of that day, and which she must
have had in life, but she is in all respects the young lady of
our own period, using words not known to Annie Morgan, and
actually singing songs not then composed, and such modern
music only as is known to the medium ! So it is with Florence,
who sings and plays the piano, but not music known to Miss
Maples, only music learned by Miss Showers, and which did
not exist when Miss Maples lived !
With both there is this marvellous coincidence, that if they
are spirits of the dead, not only is it extraordinary that two
persons should have .been so exactly like the two mediums,
but that, of all the multitudes of the dead, two such resem¬
blances should have chanced to attach themselves to the two
mediums. The chances are as mill ns to one against its
occurring even in one instance; how L.linitely greater are the
chances against its occurring in two !
These are the objections. Of course they might be met by
saying—great as they are, nevertheless they are overcome by
the facts. We will prove it.
Four or five intelligent and trustworthy gentlemen have
asserted that they have actually seen the medium and the
spirit at the same instant, and there can be no doubt they so
believe. But all, with the exception of Mr. Crookes, were
witnesses under circumstances that require the most careful
examination in relation to locality, time, position, light, and
suchlike. An appeal is made to confidence in the honour of
the mediums, but in scientific experiments it is neither fair
nor right to dispense with positive proof. Besides, in this
case it is admitted that mediums are liable to unconscious
acting of parts when in a condition of trance, which, indeed,
is the defence offered for Miss Showers. If such a tendency
exist, confidence is impossible; doubt is right, and crucial
tests are indispensable.
Mr. Crookes has carried the investigation much further
than any other, and his testimony is by far the most weighty.
Although admitting that the electrical test proved Florence to
be Miss Showers, he asserts that it also proved Katie not to
be Miss Cook. The dye that stained the fingers of Miss
Showers did not stain the fingers of Miss Cook. In the
cabinet, Katie, he says, was seen by him in the light that
came through the curtain, while Miss Cook was on the floor,
and that she actually assisted him to lift Miss Cook’s body on
to the sofa. A shawl was over Miss Cook’s face, but he is
positive it was herself. This is, undoubtedly, very strong
evidence, and would be accepted as sufficient in any probable
occurrence or scientific experiment in the ordinary course of
nature. But is it sufficient to overcome the enormous diffi¬
culties raised by the nature of the fact itself and the various
circumstances I have stated, and which certainly raise the
strongest presumption that the spirit and the medium are
identical ? But the reason for not taking this evidence, strong
as it is, as decisive of the asserted fact' is this, that other
more certain, more conclusive evidence, is not only to be
obtained, but is abroad and waiting to be tried. Instead of
one witness, it is easy to obtain twenty witnesses ; instead of
forms seen in dubious light, both medium and spirit can infal¬
libly be shown to all in full light, and when such conclusive
proof is practicable, neither science nor reason can nor ought
to be contented with any lesser proof, however great the
authority offering it.
If it be said that the crucial tests suggested disturb
the conditions and may interfere with the manifestation,
the answer is obvious. Let it be granted that they might
prevent the process of materialising. But the tests asked for
are to be applied only after the process is complete, and when
their object is to ascertain only if the alleged process has been
completed. No revelation then could possibly undo what has
been already . done. If both forms are then shown plainly
visible to all eyes at the same moment, the spirit itself would
rejoice greatly that its disunited existence had been established;
the medium would equally rejoice that her truth and genuine¬
ness had been vindicated. Seience would rejoice that a new
region of unbounded curiosity and research had been opened to
it. The world would rejoice that a new and mighty revelation
had been vouchsafed to it. If all this could be effected by the
lifting of a curtain, or the use of a bit of paint, ought it not to
be done, and should any reasonable person be satisfied if it be
not done. The question is submitted to the impartial judg¬
ment of the public, who will pronounce their verdict.
To this summing up of the case let me add one suggestion.
The importance of the question cannot be exaggerated. It
ought to be at once determined. Let it be submitted to an
impartial and competent committtee to hear the witnesses,
and to try the experiment themselves with such tests as their
wisdom might suggest, reporting the results. Let three such
men as Lord Lindsay, himself a Spiritualist—Lord Rayleigh,
an investigator though not yet a believer—and some third
person to be selected by them, be invited to undertake this
investigation for the sake alike of science, of truth, and of
humanity.
As a lover of truth, and one who desires earnestly that this
marvel may be proved to be a truth, I shall have done my
duty by inviting the attention of all who share the like desire
to the importance of this question and the difficulties that
encompass lit. Let me add, that no such difficulties have
attended the investigation of other phenomena. No suspicious
conditions were imposed, and tests were not merely permitted,
but invited by Mr. Home. I have recently held, with Mr.
Crookes, a series of sittings with Mr. Williams, who submitted
himself willingly to any test we desired to apply, and the
results of experiments under such tests, reasonably imposed
for scientific purposes, may claim to be accepted as facts in
science, or at least to justify the convictions of those who
tried them. I am bound to say of Mr. Williams, after much
trial of him—not in public rooms, but in the house of Mr.
Crookes and in my own, and with none but our own friends
present, that he has always proved himself to be most trust¬
worthy, most desirous to prove to us his honesty, and cor¬
dially adopting every suggestion for our better assurance.
Our requirements left no loophole for deception, even if it had
been designed. No conditions were imposed by him, and no
cause was ever given for doubt.* How different from the
experiments now in controversy.
29th June, 1874. Edward W. Cox.
After a fierce controversy, it is not the custom for
one of the two contending parties to jump into the
president’s chair, and to do the summing up; if such
were the case, the tendency of the summing up could
always be foretold in advance, and the foregoing
example is no exception to that rule. Our ruling is :—
1. That it is an unquestionable fact that in some cases
these materialised forms have been demonstrated not to be
the mediums in or out of trance; firstly, because Mr. W.
Crookes, F.R.S., testifies that he has seen Miss Cook and
Katie at the same time; secondly, because Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
barrister-at-law, testifies that he has seen Miss Showers and
Florence at the same time; thirdly, because Mrs. Ross-Church,
Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. Tapp, Mrs. Corner, Miss Corner, and
others, testify to having seen the same thing under somewhat
less satisfactory conditions ; fourthly, because Mr. C. F.
Yarley, F.R.S., and Mr. Crookes, twice brought electrical
cable testing apparatus, and by passing an electrical current
through the body of Miss Cook, all through the seances,
demonstrated, with the most unquestionable certainty, beyond
all dispute, that the medium was in the cabinet while Katie
was outside.
2. That at a very great number of other seances on record,
in which the medium was tied with stretched tape, the knots
sealed with signet rings, and the ends of the tape in sight
of the spectators, and when the hair of her head was passed
through the door of the cabinet and in sight all through the
seance, while spirit faces appeared high above, it has been
* This is exactly what Mr. Crookes, F.B.S., has published about Miss
Cook and his experiments with her in his own house.—Ed.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
demonstrated that the power acting upon the medium was
something greater than that possessed by any mortal in the
normal state.
3. That at the residuum of the seances, not held under test
conditions, the mediums being persons of the most upright
character and blameless lives, there is not the slightest reason
to suppose that they attempted to manufacture the minor
manifestations, when it was certain that they did not manu¬
facture the major.
4. That it is a fair matter for discussion, whether, when the
conditions are bad, and remembering that the spirits have
the power of freeing many physical mediums from bonds in
the twinkling of an eye, they may not sometimes present the
entranced mediums instead of themselves. And if such be
the case, the further question would arise whether the spirits
do this knowingly, consequently, whether they are evil and
deceiving spirits, practising the vilest kind of fraud in a
matter of the deepest importance to all lovers of truth ?
With these conclusions it is probable that both the
contending parties, as well as the observers, will, to a
considerable extent, agree. Serjeant Cox will pro¬
bably, object most to No. 1, for all through this dis¬
cussion he seems to think that the legal arguments he
draws from his brain, will blow away the hard tests to
which the manifestations have been subjected, under
the eyes of leading men of science. It would be very
hard upon the mediums, if these subtleties were to be
permitted to abolish severely proved physical facts.
If bad conditions ever produce the results stated in
our conclusion, No. 4, bad conditions were supplied at
the Moat Mount seance, and may have extended to the
seance a few days afterwards at the house of Mr.
Crookes. At Miss Cook’s seances it was found that if
bad conditions brought bad spirits about her, they, in
nearly every case retained their power during three or
four subsequent seances ; this has for a year or two been
a perfectly well known and thoroughly established fact
to all the regular frequenters of the seances. Mr.
Crookes, Mr. Luxmoore, and others have often noticed
this to be the case.
But the controversy has also its social aspects, in
which there is no chance of agreement between the con¬
tending parties. We hold that Mr. Cox has been utterly
in the wrong in his treatment of Mrs. and Miss Showers.
They are socially his equals, belonging to a family
whose members have most honourably distinguished
themselves in the military and political service of this
nation. Miss Showers is a non-professional medium,
who has everything to lose and nothing to gain by
being known as a medium ; yet she, with her mother’s
approval, nobly made the sacrifice, at a time when dis¬
creditable people were trying to throw doubt over all
manifestations of this class, and were unwarrantably
persecuting another medium. At this very time Mrs.
and Miss Showers came forward and voluntarily
attached their honourable names and reputation to
phenomena, the truth of which was attempted to be
discredited. What they have since passed through
has raised a strong tide of public opinion in their
favour, and whenever they come to town they will
always meet the very warmest welcome from leading
London Spiritualists, such a welcome, in short, as they
received during their recent visit to Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory.
With this summing up, a discussion is closed which
we deeply regret has ever darkened these pages.
Sib, Charles Isiiam’s articles have been quoted from
The Spiritualist into the Northampton local papers.
Prince Wittgenstein, the Emperor of Russia, and
other influential students of spiritual phenomena, have
recently paid a visit to Ems, which has been thronged with a
great number of fashionable visitors.
July 10, 1874.
Mr. R. Cogman of 15, St. Peters-road, Mile-end, London,
E., is now urgently in want of help to continue his work at the
East-end.
M. Btjgttet, spirit photographer, of Paris, will pay another
visit to London in six weeks’ time, if a sufficient number of
subscribers enter their names for pictures.
Articles by Sir Charles Isham, Mrs. Honey wood, and other
friends, as well as all correspondent’s letters and some poetry,
are kept over till next week for want of space.
Arrival oe Messrs. Bastian and Taylor.— These
powerful American physical mediums gave farewell seances to
their friends in Chicago about a month ago, and, after a short
stay at Syracuse, N.Y., left the United States for Glasgow,
where they arrived on Thursday, last week, and are still
residing. They will make a tour through Scotland, stopping
at Bridge of Allan, Dundee, and Edinburgh, then work their
way through England to London. We recently published
how spirits christened a baby through their mediumship.
Spiritual Publications. — Mr. George Farmer has
opened a shop for the sale of spiritual literature, at 4, Kings-
gate-street, High Holborn, London, W.C., at which place all
the publications connected with Spiritualism may be obtained,
without let or hindrance. As many of the vendors of
spiritual periodicals in the provinces, and the Liverpool Psy¬
chological Society, have been unable to obtain The Spiritualist
in the weekly parcels of the older trade agency, and have long
been obliged, in consequence, to pay unnecessarily for their
Separate carriage, it will save expense if they order their
goods of Mr. Farmer, who will supply all kinds of spiritual
literature in one parcel, and do his best to serve the public
interests of the movement. Contents bills of every number
of The Spiritualist for exhibition in shop windows and at
public meetings, may now be obtained of our publisher,
Mr. Allen, by newsvendors on application.
Musical Education eor the Blind. — A meeting of
the friends and supporters of the Normal College for the
musical education of the blind, at Norwood, was held on
Tuesday afternoon last week, at the Mansion House. The
Lord Mayor presided, and there were also present the Duke of
Westminster, the Earl of Shaftesbury, the Bight Hon. W. E.
Forster, M.P., Lord Hatherley, and other influential persons.
The object of the school is to teach the blind the science of
music, so that they may be enabled to become teachers, organ¬
ists, and pianoforte players, and the efforts that have been
made appear to have been attended with very great success.
Some pupils from the school gave some performances, both vocal
and instrumental, most admirably, and it is announced that
at present thirty blind scholars are taken charge of, and it is
hoped that the number may be increased to 200. The Duke
of Westminster, the Earl of Shaftesbury, and Mr. Forster
addressed the meeting, and strongly urged the clairhs of the
Academy to support, and it was stated that the pupils Would
shortly perform before the Queen at Windsor. Various sub¬
scriptions were announced, and a cordial resolution of thanks
to the Lord Mayor closed the proceedings.
New American Spiritual Newspaper.—A weekly
journal, chiefly devoted to Spiritualism, and entitled Common
Sense, has just commenced its career ih San Francisco,
California. It is ably edited, well printed, and contains
internal evidence that it is in the hands of an experienced
journalist. In short, unlike the majority of hew periodicals,
it looks like one of those which is not in the hands of amateurs,
and is likely to live. At present, it is trying to serve two
masters, Spiritualism and materialism, and this is a source of
weakness ; the sooner it leaves the latter and cleaves to the
former, the better. It contains a few articles by a friend of
Mrs. De Morgan, who recently visited England, and Who
gathered a tolerably accurate knowledge of several Lohdoh
mediums and their manifestations, but not of course, uhmixed
with those errors which must always beset the best of casual
observers, in which category we include the gentleman now
under notice. The price of Common Sense is three dollars a
year, exclusive of postage, and it is published at 236, Mont-
gomery-street, San Francisco, U.S,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M. T., Hbndon.—The indices to all the past volumes of The
Spiritualist are now being prepared with much expedition, and
their publication will be announced in a few weeks.
T.—Mr. Guppy has been present at one only of Miss Cook’s mate¬
rialisation seances,- and a few of the particulars are printed on
another page. He has never been at one of Miss Showers’
seances. Mrs. Guppy has never been invited to any of Miss
Cook’s or Miss Showers’ materialisation seances, and has never
seen the manifestations thereat.
July 10, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(tiSTABLISHUD 1873.)
• Vice-Presidents. -
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-
street, Portman-square, London, W.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fi'z-Gterald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-squarO, W.
Gully, J. M„ M.D., Hill-side, Streatham.
Hall, S. C„ P.S.A., Avenue-villa, Holland-street, Kensington, "W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, W.
RoSs-Ohurch, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Eensingston-
park, W.
Senior, Mrs. H., Glassdrummond, Kilkeel, Co Down, Ireland.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Edeh-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
BCnnett, Edward, T., The Holmes, BCtchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blaekheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chamber's, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, LOUghborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, Ji.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-sqttare, Brompton, S.W.
Tsham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
• Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, 0. W., F.S.S, 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kept-road, S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Spelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &e., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-sqUare, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Correspondirg Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
hear Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J, M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James.Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leyinarie, M.D., 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s-.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DlDlER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. Gr. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist anD
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 16l, Hampstead
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-Cent Stamps. Register tour Letters.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
mo The READERS OF «THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, SOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid fo.r on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, wall supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3S.; small size, Is.
COMPANION or GOVERNESS in a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspective Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. French, Italian, Music, and Needlework. Good
References. Address G. S., Morley’s Library, Forest-hili, London.
YIS1TORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dlHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desir
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move
ments, should subscribe to the
“ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being mad
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office of the Pioneer of Progress, 4, Kingsgate-street, High Holborn,
London, W.C.   
A GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire bills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “ H ” care of
Mr. F. A. Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Anns-squar’e, Manchester.
BUGUET begs to announce to his country patrons
square, during his stay in London, for the reproduction of deceased friends
or relatives. Price, with portrait of the sitter, 80s.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST. ..   July 10,' 1374.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
• INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualise deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found' its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature-of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
A The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency, of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
t “H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq.., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
.Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
■RObOrt QuelCh, Esq., O.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckmah, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
* “ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to Co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox; Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
;Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.’’ •
. After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued.its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
• “ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirbrs into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the flrst 'occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
57 Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may he obtained;
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has n6 influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. BSfore the manifestatiohs begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or: in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature.- A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near. I -
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling^ike
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps. .
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If threessignals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to,the .letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to‘ get the best manifestations?” Probably, some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
sphlts come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
’weil-nhosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits but of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are-ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumghip than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
INSCRUTABLE are .the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.-—A RAILWAY - ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact; the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectis of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OR TO
MR. THOMAS BLFTON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW
    LONDON, E.   .
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a small HOUSE, or part of a house
(unfurnished), to consist of bedroom, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Rent, inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letters to be addressed to “Advertiser,’
care of Thos. Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
-Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.    
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
TESTS ADAPTED TO DETERMINE
THE TRUTH OF
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
BY GEORGE HARRIS, F.S.A.,
BARRISTER AT LAW;
Fellow of the London Anthropological Society; late president of the
Manchester Anthropological Society; late Vice-President of the An-
thropologicrl Institute of Great Britain and Ireland; Foreign Fellow
of the Anthropological Institute of New York; Fellow of the Royal
Historical Society; and Author of “ Civilisation Considered as a
Science;” “ The Theory of the Arts,” &c.
“ They are more excusable who believe in apparitions than those who re¬
ject all extraordinary revelations of this kind, contrary to the reports of all
historians, sacred and profane, ancient and modern, and to the traditions
of all nations; and think the appearance of spirits are fabulous and ground¬
less.”—Addision.
A PAPER READ BEFORE THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIRTY, AT THEIR
ROOMS, 37, ARUNDEL STREET, STRAND, 3rd, FEBRUARY, 1874.
(Published by Request.)
PRICE SIXPENCE.
London: Balliere, Tindall, and Cox, King William-street, Charing-cross.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday October loth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) ■ dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri-
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was, of a very philoso
phical and high-class character;’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E. ’ " ■ . .r, ' ,
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 16th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.   
T3EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JUL fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.   ■ 1 -' '
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
