A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEJMCE /ND ETHICf OF gPI^ITU/EIfM.
No. 27.—Vol. I.
LONDON: WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence*
THE “QUARTERLY REVIEW” OH SPIRITUALISM.
In the last number of The Quarterly Review there is
an article on “ Spiritualism and its Recent Converts,”
said by The. Echo and other newspapers to have been
written by Dr. W. JB. Carpenter, F.R.S., the President
of the British Association at its meeting next year at
Brighton.
From the article, which is fifty-three pages long, we
gather that Dr. Carpenter’s practical knowledge of
jj Spiritualism was gathered by attendance at two seances.
According to the article he was present at five in all;
he states that at two of these the mediums (whose
names, he suppresses) were impostors, whilst at one of
them the manifestations were “ illusions,” so that if
we accept these assertions, all we have to do is to
consider what took place at the other two out of
the five, the more especially because these two seances
were held with Mr. Foster, who was recognised as a
genuine medium by Spiritualists when he came to
England. During the last three years we have known
of only two cases of imposture in connection with
Spiritualism, so Dr. Carpenter was either singularly
unfortunate in his first experiences, or in two cases he
has. brought a charge of imposture against innocent
people.,; a? many readers of these lines know that it is
quite-certain he has done in the case of Mr. Foster.
Here; is Dr. Carpenter’s account of his seances with
Mr. Foster :—
“ We were not introduced to him by name, and we do not
think that he could have had any opportunity of knowing our
person. Nevertheless, he not only answered, in a variety of
'modes, the questions we put to him respecting the time and
'cause of the death of several of our departed friends and rela¬
tives, whose names we had written down on slips of paper
which had been folded up and crumpled into pellets before
being placed in his hands, but he brought out names and dates
correctly, in large red letters, on his bare arm, the redness
being produced by the turgescence of the minute vessels of
the skin, and passing away after a few minutes, like a blush.
We must pwh. to have been strongly impressed at the time by
this performance; but on subsequently thinking it over, we
‘thought that we could see that Mr. Foster’s divining power
was partly derived from his having acquired the faculty of
interpreting the movements of the top of. a pen or pencil,
though the point and what was written by it was, hid from his
sight; and partly from a very keen observation of the indi¬
cations unconsciously given by ourselves of the answer we
expected. . . . Though we did our utmost to repress every sign
of anticipation^ we came, on reflection, to ah assured convic¬
tion that Mr..Foster had been keen-sighted enough to detect
such signs,'notwithstanding our attempt to baffle him. [What
a very satisfactory explanation /] For having asked him the
'month of the death of a friend, whose name had previously
appeared in fed letters on his arm, and the year of his death
had also been correctly indicated in another way, he desired
us to take up the alphabet card and tp point to the successive
letters. This we did, as we Relieved, with pendulum-like
regularity; nevertheless distinct raps [ Where did they come
from ?] were heard at the letters J U. When, however, on
the next repetition, we came to L, M, N, Mr. Foster was
obviously baffled. He directed us to “ try back ” two or three
times, and at last confessed that he could not certainly tell
whether the month was June or July. The secret was, that
we did not ov/rselves recollect. Wishing to clear up the matter
further, we called on Mr. Foster, revealed ourselves to him in
propri& persona, and asked him if he would object to meet
a few scientific investigators who should be allowed to subject
his powers to fair tests. As he professed his readiness to do
so, we brought together such a meeting at our own house ;
and previously to Mr. Foster’s arrival, we explained to our
friends the arrangements we proposed. One of these, was, that
one of the party should sit outside the circle, and should
devote himself to observing and recording all that passed,
without taking any part whatever in the performance:”
In other words, a party of gentlemen came ready to
dictate their own conditions to a power which often
will not submit to such conditions even when it is able
to do so; they also sat as “ authorities ” before a
Yower which has never recognised them as such. ' Dr.
Balfour Stewart, who has written on this subject far
more philosophically and in a better spirit than any
other F.R.S. outside the ranks of Spiritualism, has in¬
timated that when certain of the phenomena are pro¬
duced in public he is ready to accept them. "We could
give evidence strongly tending to prove that certain of
the most striking physical phenomena could be pro¬
duced in public, if the proper conditions were supplied,
and the spirits chose to produce thembut evidently
their present policy of confining knowledge on this
subject to earnest searchers after truth, who work
hard to obtain the same, is better than placing the
power in the hands of persons who volunteer to sit as
its judges if it will come to them to be judged, and who
would assuredly use the power, when obtained, for
selfish purposes. Did space permit we could give
evidence tending to prove that the spirits now manifest¬
ing their presence in different places throughout the
world, are very kind, very patient, and are for the
most part working out plans carefully considered and
agreed upon among themselves. The recognition of the
authority of certain man-made institutions is not in¬
cluded in their plans. They are selecting kind-hearted,
intelligent, and earnest seekers after truth, as the more
immediate supporters of their loving authority. But to
return to Dr. Carpenter’s story:—
“Another condition was, that instead of writing down
names on slips of paper, whilst sitting at the table within
Mr. Foster’s view, we should write them at a side-table, with
our backs turned to him. On explaining these arrangements
to Mr. Foster, he immediately said that the first could not be
permitted, for that every person present must form part of
the circle. To the second he made no objection. After
handing him our slips of paper carefully folded up, we took
our seats at the table, and waited for the announcement of
spiritual visitors. The only one, however, who presented
himself during an hour’s seance was the spirit of our own
old master ; whose name Mr. Foster might very readily have
learned previously, but about whom he could give no par¬
ticulars whatever.”
How was this name given ? If by raps on Dr. Car¬
penter’s furniture, he has evidently left out a part of
the story which would increase the difficulties of ex¬
planation. "Wherever Mr. Foster could obtain the name
of a person, he could as easily obtain a few particulars
about that person. Why did he not read dates and
names from the muscles of Dr. Carpenter’s face as
before? Why does Dr. Carpenter abandon his face-
twitching theory so suddenly ? '
“ Not one of the names written in the papers was revealed.
The patience of our friends being exhausted, they took their
leave; but as Mr. Foster’s carriage had been ordered for a
later hour, we requested him to sit down again with the mem¬
bers of our family. * Now,’ we said, ‘ that these incredulous
philosophers are gone, perhaps the spirits will favour us with a
visit.’ We purposely followed his lead, as on our first inter¬
view, and everything went on successfully on that occasion ;
until, whilst the name of a relative we had recently lost was
being spelled out on an alphabet-card the raps suddenly
ceased on the interposition of a large music-box, which' Was
set up at a preconcerted signal so as to hide the top as well as
the bottom of our pointer from Mr. Foster’s eyes.”
So “ rapis ” did come from Dr. Carpenter’s own fur¬
niture. In the higher life thoughts are real things;
spirits are thought beings, and they can read each
other’s thoughts. Dr. Carpenter and his company
furnished the- spirits with an impure mental atmos¬
phere of suspicion, assumed authority, and distrust;
these conditions being furnished, the spirits either did
not, or would not, manifest their presence. A large
portion of this spiritual impurity being removed, giving
the preponderating influence to the higher spiritual
state, probably, of the women arid children, conditions
were furnished which facilitated communication. The
serious impression made upon Dr. Carpenter by the
first seance, probably caused him to be. in a purer men¬
tal state than his friends who had left. Suddenly, he
hid the top of the pointer with a box, and the raps
ceased. The entrance of the impure thought broke
the conditions. Dr. Carpenter, being a superficial
observer, attributed the stoppage to the external act of
the interposition of the box, but the real cause of the
stoppage was the impure thought which governed the
! act.* The act was the effect, the thought was the
cause, and spirits live and move in the world of causes.
1 If men of science wish to see the best manifestations,
they should go to seances as little children anxious to
learn truth, rather than as very important authorities,
1 brimful of impure thoughts about certain of their
fellow creatures being arrant rogues and impostors, and
| anxious to prove them to be so rather than otherwise.
| Such men carry with them a poisonous mental atmos-
! phere to the spirit circle; if the medium be a powerful
one, they may not altogether stop the phenomena, but
the spirits who manifest are likely to be of a very de¬
graded order, .brought there by the visitors. We know
j of one case, and we cannot name the town in which it
I took place, or the personages would be recognised, in
i which an individual, not naturally bad, left some bad
company to attend a spirit circle; the invisible beings
he took there with him then had power to act, and
1 some very terrible manifestations took place, which
thoroughly frightened him. If two mediums quarrel
violently just before sitting at a circle, the manifesta-
* See No. 6 of The Spiritualist, page 43.
tions are sure to be unpleasant. The mental state of
any person permits spirits of a corresponding nature
to get near to the said person. Returning again to Dr.
Carpenter’s narrative :—
“ Nothing could more conclusively prove that Mr. Foster’s
knowledge was derived from observation of the movements of
the pointer, although he could only see the portion of it not
hidden by. the card, which was held so as to conceal the
lower part of it. . . . The trick by which the red letters were
produced, was discovered by the inquiries of our medical
friends.”
Then why not publish the nature of the trick ? Why
does Dr. Carpenter protect alleged impostors by with¬
holding the information from the public ?
Through Mr. Foster’s mediumship the spirits some¬
times, if not always, had the power to read names
brought to Mr. Foster, and not written in his presence
at all. In some cases they seemed to choose to use
this power, and in other cases,' when they did not
think it desirable to bring some of the persons present
into the young Spiritual movement, they did not use it.
As an instance of the first class of cases, we may quote
that of Mr. E. L. Blanchard, the well-known author,
who gave evidence in writing to the Dialectical Society,
stating what spiritual manifestations he had witnessed.
He testified:—
“ On January 11th, 1862, the deponent, in company with
Mr. Pearson the artist, and Mr. Thomas Spencer, the well-
known analytical chemist, visited a medium named Foster, at
14, Bryanstone-street. Names previously written on slips of
paper and rolled up into pellets were bkouoht by each per¬
son, and these names were quickly and correctly given by
raps without the possibility of the medium acquiring a
knowledge of the contents of the paper slips beforehand.
On the arm of the medium appeared in red letters, ‘ William
Blanchard,’-the name of the deponent’s father, and immedi¬
ately afterwards appeared in the palm of the medium’s hand,
the number “27,” indicating in answer to a question put,
the exact number of years which had elapsed since the said
William Blanchard had ceased to exist on earth. All this
was done very rapidly, the deponent and his friends being
utterly unknown to the medium, and the letters and numbers
disappearing in the sight of those present, without the arm of
the medium being withdrawn.”
It therefore remains for Dr. Carpenter to explain how
Mr. Foster read the motions of the top of a pencil,
while that pencil was used in a house in which Mr.
Foster was not present.
As regards the rest of Dr. Carpenter’s article, it is
so utterly worthless in consequence of the author’s
want of practical knowledge of his subject, as to. be
unworthy of criticism. We say this out of no dis¬
respect to Dr. Carpenter, but as a literal truth. If the
editor of the Quarterly Review had selected a man
experienced in analytical chemistry, and no other branch
of science, to write a critical essay upon some compli¬
cated machinery in Manchester, which the chemist had
never seen, and did not understand, the said chemist
could scarcely write a more unreliable and worthless
article on the machinery, than Dr. Carpenter has
written about Spiritualism. His ignorance of the sub¬
ject is absolute, except in the few paragraphs which we
have criticised, and, we . trust, criticised fairly. The
substance of his article is that Spiritualism is partly
unconscious muscular action, partly unconscious cere-
bation, and partly imposture. He makes a very savage
attack, full of personalities, upon Messrs. Crookes,
Cox, Huggins, Yarley,. and Lord Lindsay, but we do
not intend to follow him into the Royal Society arena
of intellectual barbarism. ' Had Dr. Carpenter followed
up his early spiritual inquiries, he would have gained
knowledge which would have made him a wiser phi¬
losopher and a kinder and better man.
Mb. C. W. Peabce, Mb. John Jones, and other friends,
are getting ready some lectures on Spiritualism, for delivery
in different parts of London during the winter. About £20
should be guaranteed by Spiritualists to secure them against
money losses, the work being of such a very important nature.
We recommend our readers to write to “John Jones, Esq.,
Enmore Park, Norwood Junction,” and each guarantee a small
portion of the £20.
Mb. Cbookes has written a reply to Dr. Carpenter’s
article in th.e Quarterly Review, and it will be published
shortly. Mr. Crookes is making an instrument whereby he
expects to make visible to the eye the action of one of the
numerous forces emitted from the living human body. If Mr.
Crookes succeeds in unravelling some of the laws governing
the physics of Spiritualism, all Spiritualists will feel his work
to be of the greatest value to the movement. Mr. Home leaves
for Russia in a fortnight. His book will be published next
month.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15,1871
SPIRITUAL POWERS.
"We have received the following letter:—
“ Sir,—In a foot-note you append to a very interesting
letter from Mr. Theobald in your last number, you speak of
the frequency of the entreaty from unhappy spirits for human
prayers, and suggest that the practice of praying for the
dead in the Roman Catholic Church comes from a time when
there was in it real spiritual power.
“ Will you allow me, as a Spiritualist and a Catholic, to
inquire, how you account for the origin of that power, during
what period you consider it was enjoyed, and when and why
you believe it to have declined and finally disappeared, seeing
that you speak of it as belonging to the past ?
“ Catholics account for its presence as a direct gift of our
blessed Lord to His Church, bestowed ere yet He had ascended
into heaven, and promised, as an everlasting heritage, never to
be withdrawn unto the end.
“We believe that His Church in all ages has been instinct
with His life and inspiration, and has understood, revealed,
and carried out ‘ the mind of Christ.’ Very early in her his¬
tory did she comprehend and practise the duty of praying for
the departed. Inscriptions and tradition trace back this pious
-usage to Apostolic times. And never has she ceased her plead¬
ing ; never for one moment through all the centuries has been
hushed the wail of ‘ Miserere,’ or the cry of her ‘ De Profundis ’
for her dead of doubtful destiny. And ever has her secret and
solemn sigh of love gone up before the Throne, for the chil¬
dren she has led up to the everlasting gates, now sundered
from her sight by the shadows, ‘ Eternal rest give unto them,
■O Lord; and let perpetual light shine upon them! ’
“ The first Christian century of simple faith, and this great
restless nineteenth century of enquiry, are but as one, as
regards the changeless attitude of the Church visible towards
the Church invisible.
“ Her passionate pleadings have had princely ‘power with
Clod, and, have prevailed.’ Many and many a suffering soul,
healed and restored by her uplifted voice of supplication, has
come ou t strong and pure from the | great tribulation ’ into
which its ‘ deeds done in the body | had plunged it, on stepping
from out the world of semblances into the world of reality !
Say, not, then, that prayers for the dead are a vestige of the
time when the Church Catholic had spiritual power; say,
rather, that she has ever been a living witness amongst men
to the truth that death makes no final and impassable barrier
between souls, as those have declared who separated them¬
selves from her communion, but that we are still all brethren,
and can interchange sweet offices across its stream. And as
she has never ceased to hold unbroken intercourse with the
unseen, so has her spiritual power neither waned nor departed,
but is as much to-day in its strength and splendour as when in
mediaeval times she owned a greater temporal rule and juris¬
diction. Who that has ever heard with understanding heart
and ears a solemn mass for the dead, but has felt his soul
stirred into sympathy, by a sense of spiritual presence and
power, by a mighty magnetism, strange and unaccountable
but not easy to shake off 1
“ The Catholic Church is one great harmonious spiritual
circle, swayed by a wondrous and Divine control, manifested
through laws of mediumship, whose perfection of arrangement,
and completeness of conditions, enables her to transmit, pure,
unsullied, and distinct from all other lesser and disturbing
influences, that life, heavenly and yet human, which is ‘ for
the healing of the nations.’ Considered from a Spiritualistic
point of view, the Catholic Church is the great wonder of the
world, of this time and of all times. For in that deep wise heart
of hers she holds, and has ever held, with patient dignity and
calm and conscious power, all the hidden secrets, all the mys¬
terious knowledge that is startling us in this sceptical age, as
bit by bit some glimmerings of them come to us when spirits
speak to us of their life beyond the grave and of what they
learn in it of the laws through which communication is pos¬
sible between mortals, and the immortal land to which we all
are bound.
“ To us Protestants, sitting outside in the chilling dimness
of a semi-rationalism, and stricken by the keen bleak wind of
literalism, our faces turned away from the sunlight and the
flowers, and all the glory and the joy of the invisible, the
things belonging to the spiritual nature, history, and destiny
of man were as ‘ though they were not.’ We dwelt amongst
the ‘ things seen,’ and understood not that the unseen was
close about us, and the veil between so slight and frail, that
it was breaking every here and there with the pressure of the
light streaming so irrepressibly through its fragile folds.
Therefore we needed and were given Spiritualism as it stands
amongst us. I say ‘ to ms Protestants,’ for I who write was
also but a short space since a Protestant, who, guided by the
tendencies of the time, and repelled by the ordinary ‘ orthodox ’
views, questioned the existence of the miraculous and the
■supernatural in any age, just because they had, as I then
ignorantly conceived, ceased to exist since the Apostles were
reputed to have worked wonders in the East. Sorrow sent
me to Spiritualism, and Spiritualism sent me into the Catholic
•Church. Spirits asked me to pray for them, told me of puri¬
fication after death, told how high and blessed spirits, purged
through pain, prayed for us sinners continually before God.
‘ But all this,’ I said, ‘ is Roman doctrine 1 ’ ‘ It is true,’ was
all the answer. * If so,’ I thought within myself, ‘ if Rome,
then, has alone preserved this, one great truth intact, amidst
the scorn, opposition, and opprobrium of opponents, who
knows,—who can say, that other truths which she asserts with
■equal firmness may not be as beautiful and true, and be
revealed to her by Him who is Truth ? ’ And so, I went, at
first distrustingly, and with much caution and hesitation, and
inquired into her teachings. And in them I found a wisdom
profound and awful, yet benignant and condescending, and a
life strong and mighty, yet full of tenderness. And in all
that wisdom and through all that life, there ran ever the
golden cord linking it with the spiritual and the invisible, till
I was forced to exclaim that it was surely and indeed the
* House of God, and the gate of heaven,’ and to recognise in
the Catholic Church, the unfailing medium of our Lord,
manifesting forth His glory, even as the faithful moon reflects
the sun’s rays, lightening and brightening our earthly night.
“A. E. H.”
In Nos. 10 and 11 of the The Spiritualist will be
found the names and addresses of more than 100 people,
who were instantaneously cured by Dr. Newton of
inveterate diseases, some of which diseases had defied
for months the best medical skill in the best London
hospitals. If the Roman Catholic Church has spiritual
power now, we should he very much obliged if our
-correspondent will send us the names and addresses of
half as many people who have been cured of their
diseases by all the Roman Catholic priests in England
put together, during the last six months. Our list of
cures was compiled from watching Dr. Newton’s work,
during four or five days only. Dr. Newton is not a
Roman Catholic; he told us that his religious belief
was that “ nothing but good deeds would advance.' a
man in spirit life one jot or one tittle.” If our corres¬
pondent cannot give or .obtain for us the statistical
evidence hereby requested, it will tend to prove that
this branch of spiritual power is dead at the present
time in the English section of the Roman Catholic
Church, as it is in a great many other churches
besides.
Again, will our correspondent give us the names and
addresses of any of the Roman Catholic clergy in
London, who are in the habit of conversing more with
spirits than is done by Spiritualists, in order that we
may be taught by the said clergy, and learn more about
the laws of spiritual communion than we know at
present? We should ask them to explain to us how
the spirits produce the voices at voice circles, what is
the nature of the raps, how we can improve the means
of communication, and so on. If they cannot do this,
it is plain that they do not actually possess much
spiritual power, though they may profess to have a
superabundance.
Now as to praying for the dead. Unhappy spirits
who led bad lives while on earth, come to Spiritualists
often and ask to be prayed for; the evident misery of
the askers brings forth at once natural and real prayers
or kind wishes from the listeners, which prayers are
usually silent and spiritual, not expressed in words.
We have been present at a Roman Catholic ceremonial
where prayers were repeated for the dead. On that
occasion no spirit came and asked for the prayers; the
prayers were forms of words out of a book, and words
are merely artificial things invented by man. To all
appearance the service was an artificial form, and
certainly no spirit asked for the ceremony, or returned
thanks for it when performed, nor have we heard that
there is any Roman Catholic chapel in London where
the spirits ever go at the present time, and ask for the
performance of High Mass.
There is no prejudice in these remarks: they apply
not only to the Roman Catholic Church but to many
others. At the same time our correspondent in pic¬
turing the purity and splendour of the Roman Catholic
Church in all ages, describes a Church existing in her
own cultivated and poetical imagination only; she
leaves out of the picture the tens of thousands of people
roasted alive by the said Church. The Holy Inquisition
roasted some thousands. Shall our own Smithfield be
forgotten ? The Church of Rome imprisoned Galileo, and
roasted alive an Italian astronomer, because they asserted
that the earth travelled round the sun. These remarks,
again, do not spring from prejudice. In the days of
Queen Elizabeth—good Queen Ress—Roman Catholics
were roasted to a very large extent, more especially by
the Protestant Bishop of Norwich. It is true we do
not find these Protestant facts in histories “ compiled
for the use of schools; ” it would not do for us to give
too much knowledge to children who are to be used in
after life for political and ecclesiastical purposes, so the
children must thrill with horror at the deeds of
“ Bloody Mary,” and learn that “ Good Queen Bess,”
one of the heads of the early Protestant Church in
England, was all perfection, though she swore badly,
and roasted Roman Catholics occasionally. Tom In-
goldsby has well expressed some of her peculiarities in
his poetical summary of her speech to the Bishop of
Ely, when Sir Christopher Hatton asked her for a
house:—
“ A house ! we’re surprised that the thing did not strike
Us before. Yes !—of course ! Pray, whose house would’you
like?
When I do things of this kind 1 do them genteelly.
A house !—let me see I there’s the Bishop of Ely 1
A capital mansion, I’m told, the proud knave is in,
Up there in Holborn, just opposite Thavies Inn—
Where the strawberries grow so fine and so big,
Which our Grandmother's Uncle tucked in like a pig,
King Richard the Third, which you all must have read of,
The day—don’t you know ?—he cut Hastings’s head off.
And mark me, proud Prelate !—I’m speaking to you—
Bishop Heaton !—you need not, my lord, look so blue.
Give it up on the instant I I don’t mean to shock you,
Or else by 1—(The Bishop mas shocked !)—I’ll unfrock
you !”
The following sentence from our correspondent’s
letter gives rise to other thoughts :—
“ Who that has ever heard with understanding heart and
ears a solemn mass for the dead, but has felt his soul stirred
into sympathy by a sense of spiritual presence and power, by
a mighty magnetism [mesmerism?] strange and unaccountable,
but not easy to shake off ?”
In mesmerism there are very great powers, terrible
if abused, beneficial if legitimately used. A mesmeric
lecturer, with a strong will, authoritatively tells his
listeners that he has power over them and can control
some of them so that they shall do his bidding. The
lights are lowered, an assistant on the platform plays
slow music, and the lecturer tells the observers to fix
their eyes upon him. He then makes “passes,” as if
he were drawing the observers to him with invisible
cords and with a mighty will. The philosophical and
scientific minority in the audience observe thoughtfully,
without giving play to their imagination. The lecturer
sees at once he can gain no control over them. The
irreverent grin at the proceedings, and he knows he can
do nothing with them. These two classes are rarely
found inside the churches. Among the remainder are
sensitives and negative-minded people, who,' awed by
the fixed eyes of the lecturer, the indefinable power
acting upon them, the subdued light and the solemn
music, feel sensations creeping over them, “ strange
and unaccountable, but not easy to shake off?' A
glassy appearance comes over the eyes of some of the
sensitives, one by one they start from their seats and
rush over all obstacles to the platform, and from that
moment they are helplessly under the control of the
lecturer. Their will and their independence are in the
hands of the man on the platform. He makes them
laugh, he makes them cry, he causes them to nurse
imaginary babies, and to feed the little innocents with
a fire-shovel in place of a spoon; he makes them eat
raw cabbages in place of apples, or to dance furiously
under the impression that the floor is red hot.*
The man on the platform may be of a coarse and
vulgar nature, whilst some of the sensitives under his
control may be persons of considerable refinement.
In Roman Catholic, Buddhist, or any other churches,
where the music is solemn and grand, the words im¬
pressive, the spectacle gorgeous, and the whole scene
illuminated with a “ dim religious light,” many of the
conditions are present for mesmerising imaginative and
youthful observers, who experience feelings “ strange
and unaccountable, but not easy to shake off.” If the
preacher chances to be a man intensely in earnest, and
if he uses his eyes in an impressive way, he “biologises”
the sensitives almost as well as a professional lecturer,
and a “ revival ” scene, strange and fantastic in its
character, is the result. If, on the other hand, the
priest merely follows his business as a trade, the
mesmeric influence depends chiefly on the music and
the ceremony, and then the effect is weaker. In fact
for a priestly tradesman to maintain the power to
govern the bodies and souls of his flock, it is absolutely
necessary to begin with them, when young, and too
plastic and ignorant to be able to resist the authority of
strong minds. Take a child and train it from the age
of five to fifteen, telling it all the time that it is a
desperately wicked thing to question for an instant the
absolute truth of the creed taught by its Church, it will
be found that when its mind has been governed so long,
it scarcely ever recovers its freedom afterwards; what¬
ever the creed or religion taught may be, whether
Mahommedan or Roman Catholic, it is almost certain
to continue with the individual till death. The Jesuits
say—“ Let us have the children for those ten years,
and we have no fear of your turning them afterwards.”
A child which has had its freedom of thought thus
broken and crushed in while young, exhibits the effects
externally, for such education prevents. the skull from
assuming its proper and natural shape, as explained by
the late Dr. Hunt, in one of his Presidential addresses
to the Anthropological Society.
What has been said explains why the religions change
very slowly, and why a man’s religion is usually an
accident dependent upon the geographical position of
the place where he was born.
Theatrical performances have a very strong psycho¬
logical influence over the observers. The best plays
teach the listeners to lead good lives and to shun bad
deeds. In a lesser degree also, there is probably no
moment of our lives, when we are free from the action
of external psychological influences of more or less
power.
With reference to the fanciful picture drawn by our
correspondent of the Church of ancient times, we think
that the halo which romance flings over the grim
verities of the past, is not without its use in furnishing
ideals to raise the tone of thought and action of rising
generations. With what eager attention do the young
listen to tales of the deeds of valiant knight and noble
lady, of the warriors who went forth to fight on Paynim
shore on behalf of those principles which they believed
to be true, and how do they revere the King Arthur of
ancient story, the kingly embodiment of all that was
pure and good. The best and the worst of England’s
kings and queens have some of this halo of modern
imagination irradiating their memory, telling how they
meted out reward to virtue and punishment to vice, and
how, when death laid them low amid a nation’s tears,
they were carried forth. to Westminster, “ where now
they lie upon their altar tombs, with their weapons by
their sides and their hands uplifted to heaven, peace¬
fully awaiting the final resurrection.”
With increase of wisdom there is often increase of
sorrow, and it is hard to destroy these airy pictures by
reference to black letter manuscripts of the period,
showing how the lowest and most degrading vices were
at the root of the Crusades, avarice and thirst for
plunder being the guiding elements. It is hard to
learn that many of the monarchs celebrated in story,
* Dr. Balfour Stewart in his article in Nature assumes that Messrs.
Crookes, Huggins, & Cox, were in this mental state while witnessing the
manifestations through Mr. Home’s mediumship. But Dr. Balfour Stewart
knows nothing about Spiritualism, or he would be aware that his objection
is utterly untenable.—Ed.
Nov. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
were among the most atrocious and sensual blackguards
that ever drew breath, and that instead of resting in peace
awaiting the sound of the last trumpet,.they entered
spirit life at once, and began forthwith to reap the crop
they had sown by deeds done in the body.
That solitude, fasting, and prayer help to bring on
ecstatic visions is certain, and that not a few nuns and
monks show symptoms of mediumship we do not dispute.
This mediumship does not usually appear in the priest,
hut in some negative-minded sensitive under his
control. It is well known that the spirits who surround
a medium are mostly those who take pleasure in the
company of the said medium, hence it is reasonable to
suppose that the spirits who manifest through medial
nuns, hold Eoman Catholic opinions. They may often
he disembodied priests. We were present once at a
circle where the spirits of two Roman Catholic priests,
expressed anger at a Roman Catholic member of the
circle, having become rather shaky in the faith. It is
probable that such manifestations as the stigmata are
produced by priestly spirits. A spirit of business habits
would make red letters appear on the arm of the me¬
dium, give his name and address, say when he died, and
try thus to prove his identity. A priestly spirit might
not he inclined to do this, hut rather to cause red
crosses and similar things to appear on the surface of
the flesh. Then again, in seeing mediumship, a spirit
usually mesmerises the medium, and what the spirit
thinks the medium sees. A mesmeric lecturer can do
the same thing with Ms sensitives. Here we have the
explanation of angels being seen with wings, but the
appearances are symbolical and not real, intended,
however, to convey some teaching. The seer may take
the manifestation literally, and believe in the actuality
of what she sees, having never heard of scientific
Spiritualism, and how these things can be brought
within the region of common sense. Every anatomist
knows that the human body was never made for wings,
and that wings would be as much out of place upon the
shoulders of a man, as would be the tail of a whale
fixed behind a horse. The bodies of animals are all
constructed rationally, and recent scientific researches
have mathematically proved that the muscles of
animals are so arranged as regards shape, size,
weight, and strength, as to do the maximum amount
of intended work, with the minimum expenditure of
labour. A man with wings would be a monstrosity,
at variance with the harmony of all the rest of God’s
creation.
As to the names of great people given through some
mediums, if common-place spirits unknown to the
medium also frequently give their names and addresses,
which afterwards prove to be correct, then it is not
unreasonable to accept the greater names as literally
true likewise. But in the majority of cases proper
names cannot he given; the spirit in some instances
infuses thoughts into some part of the brain of the
medium, and these thoughts are unconsciously trans¬
lated and brought into the external world by the
organism of the medium. The spirit may put the
thought of ‘‘'a great poet” into the brain; the organism
of the medium then unconsciously translates this in¬
fused thought, and out comes the word “ Shakespeare,”
which the spirit never intended to send. The literal
word is then accepted by the medium instead of its
spiritual meaning. And it is quite possible that the
spirit at the one end of the telegraphic line does not
know that its message went out wrong at the other.
Some of the spirits who communicate through
trance mediums say that they cannot hear what the
medium or other persons present are saying, but get at
the meaning of questions put, by reading off the im¬
pressions which the questions make upon the brain of
the medium. So they often do not know what we say
exactly,. and thus another source of error exists in
spiritual telegraphy, which we may hope to eliminate
as we gain more knowledge of the laws governing the
methods of communication. As there are plenty of
inferior spirits wandering about the earth, who hold a very
high opinion of themselves, their feeling that they are
very high and mighty individuals may be the cause of
so many great names being given through mediums.
The word “ Milton ” contains the idea of “ a great
poet.” The word “ Simpson ” contains no idea ; hence
when spirits can only communicate by the infusion of
ideas, great names can come out through the organism
of a medium, whilst common names cannot. When
spirits can control the hones, flesh, and nerves of a
medium more easily than the brain, they seem to have
more power to give names and addresses with accuracy,
because they come into closer relationship with material
conditions.
As to the lives of celibacy led by monks and nuns,
such lives are unnatural, and being unnatural cannot
be good. Is it virtuous in the Hindoo devotee to pride
himself because he injured the body that God gave him,
by allowing an iron hook to be thrust into his hack by
the priest, that he might be swung by the said hook at
the end of a long pole, in order to honour his religion ?
Is it virtuous in a man to say that he will not use
reason—one of the highest gifts God has given him—
that he will not apply reason to religious subjects? Is
it more virtuous in a man to saw off his reason than to
saw off his legs ?
Perhaps we cannot do better than to conclude this
lengthy article by quoting what some of the spirits
have themselves said on these subjects.. Everybody
knows how many volumes of high-class poetry were
given through the trance-mediumship of Mr. T. L.
Harris, and taken down in shorthand by reporters in
the presence of witnesses, as the words fell from his
lips. Here are a few lines of the spirit poetry thus
given, and printed in his Lyric of the Golden Age:—
“ The senses are the ministers of love,
The senses are the oracles of truth,
The senses the interpreters of law ;
The senses the discoverers of fact;
They hold their court in beauty and in joy
On earth and in the spheres where angels dwell,
And through the senses God reveals Himself,
And through the senses earth is taught from heaven.
Call not the senses carnal, but respect
The use and beauty of their perfect law.
Abuse them not; degrade them not by vice ;
Each hath an Angel function for thy mind.
They cradle thee in soft and loving arms;
They chant harmonious to thy being’s ear ;
They feed thee with Divine deliciousness,
And lap thee in Elysium. From the air,
The earth, the sky, the ocean, and the stars,
From eager morn and soft reposeful night,
From flowers on earth, from Angels in the skies,
From dearest kindred, from sweet lips of love
And forms of joy whose life pervadeth thine,
They bear a blessing ample as thy want,
Full as thy satisfaction. Mar them not,
As the foul drunkard smites th’ attendant wife.
Think that they are, all, in their proper sphere,
As much God’s work as sun and moon and stars.
The body is not vile. Men make it so,
By harbouring vices in its tenement.
Sweet as the lily on its virgin stem,
Sweet as the rose, that opes its perfumed lips,
And kisses the enamoured air of June,
Is the fair child upon its mother’s breast,
And the sweet maiden in her girlhood’s prime,
And the young mother sacred unto God,
Whose infant is a blossom of the soul,
Dropped by His hand, and fresh from Paradise.
The form is made to be the home of love,
And every atom bathed in innocence,
And joy and beauty, should diffuse its life,
And thrill with song—to Angels inly heard.
The mother’s bosom, Love’s all-hallowed realm.
Is no vile dust. Born from the darkest age
Of superstitution is that ancient creed
That matter is the enemy of good,
Accursed and hateful to the Infinite ;
For every atom is a living thought,
Dropped from the meditations of a God,
Its very essence an immortal love
Of the incarnate Deity ; and all
The inmost pulses of material things
Are mediums for the pulses of His will.
God’s harmonies through matter pour their flood
Of billowy music. Nature is a rose
Whose breath, and leaves, and buds, and flowers dis¬
close
The beauty of the One All-beautiful;
The grace and charm whose source is the Divine.
“ There are two methods whereby man discerns
The great thought-worlds, the orbs of lustrous light.
The spirit-empires of the happy free ;—
First the ascetic method, bom in pain
Wrought out with vigil, penance, cruel wrongs,
Scourgings and lacerations of the flesh,
Inflicted on the body by the soul.
So Indian Yogees spike their feet and hands,
Make all the form one torture-house of pain.
Deny each sense, deny the soul its food,
Deny the heart the living wine of love,
Deny the mind the manna-bread of heaven,
And stand by day and night from year to year,
In one fixed posture, till the hands are grown
Like bird’s claws ; and the crooked nails shot down
Like roots into the earth, beyond the feet;
Till parasitic plants have twined themselves
In thorny tortures round the neck, and birds
Have built their nests amid the matted hair.
The Shaker Devotee, who makes his heart
A barren wilderness, where never more
Shall flow sweet streams of woman’s tender love,
Upon whose knees no child shall ever climb ;
The monk grown lean with penance and with fast;
The pale nun pining lonely in her cell,
Unmated flower that ripens not to fruit.
Are monuments a stem ascetic faith
Rears to its own abortiveness ; yet these,
Seeking the heavenly visions, have denied
The use and beauty of the natural life,
And called the Senses carnal and accursed.
Truly, of all the multitudes who throng
The bleak ascetic desert, some have seen
Supernal gleams and felt the ecstatic thrill;
But having no receptacle of sense,
No plane of reason in the natural mind,
They have for ever failed to comprehend
The real essence of the inner life,
And ever missed, in indiscriminate
Wild guess-work, to perceive substantial truth:
The spirits they have drawn have been like them.
Not full-bloomed natures of the better skies,
Not balanced minds harmonious in their bliss,
Raptures, Hopes, Visions, winged Prophecies,
Rich-blazoned Splendours, Angel-shapes divine ;
But lean, lank, livid skeletons of mind ;
Emaciated atomies with pale
Wan features, ghastly, gloomy like themselves.
Held to the earth, though dead, unfreed as yet
From bigotry and rigid creeds of men,
Nursing all fantasies that sting and kill,
Projecting hydra fears to outward form.
Filling their miserable votaries
With haunting terrors, dreams of death and hell.
And claiming in their madness to be God,
Or at the least Christ or the Holy Ghost,
Gabriel or Michael, Moses, Peter, Paul,
The Virgin Mary or some ancient saint.
“ So comes the foul Authority that wraps
Delirious minds in midnight's lurid gloom —
So comes the Despotism that enslaves
The devotees, who, lost to manhood, fly
At every dark uncultured spirit’s call.
, Worse slaves these are than England’s grimy serfs,
Throttled with Want; worse slaves than peasant hinds.
Toiling beneath the bloody knout, remote
In Arctic wastes on bleak Siberian soil.
“ The meanest superstitions, that degrade
Mankind, originate where narrow minds
Make merit of their own self-murdered loves.
Assassinated intellects, and days
Of wire-drawn whining cant, and groaning nights
In fetid cells consumed with dreams of pain ;
Who think to open the interior sense,
And hold communion with the Deity,
By immolating all that makes man man,
And making earth a demon-haunted hell.”
If scientific Spiritualism tends to destroy improper
mesmeric influences, and to take off the romantic feel¬
ings which grand music and imposing ceremonies have
upon imaginative minds, it at the same time adds much
to the poetry of daily life, in the manner stated in the
following spirit poetry, also given through the medium-
ship of Mr. T. L. Harris :—
“ There came a fairy blue and sang :
O, maiden dear, attend, attend 1
When first on earth the violet sprang,
Each earthly maid had fairy friend,
“ Who whispered in her ear by night—
Sing, heart, my heart, the mellow lay—
And so the violet grew more bright
Within her eyes from day to day.
“ Wake, fairies, wake from field and glen.
Wake, fairies, on your azure steep ;
For ye shall throng to earth again,
And sing to maidens in their sleep.
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY ON SPIRITUALISM.*
Last month we published the results of the investi¬
gation of spiritual phenomena by the committee of the
Dialectical Society, and now proceed to make a few
critical remarks about the book itself.
One of the most marked features of the report is, the
internal evidence it contains that it is published in the
face of very strong popular prejudices. Not only did
the council of the Dialectical Society desert its com¬
mittee and refuse to publish its report, but the com¬
mittee, when left to its own resources, permitted its
members to cover themselves to a large extent by the
shield of anonymity. The names of the members of the
committee are, it is true, printed at the beginning of
the book, but the names of none of them are ap¬
pended to the remarkable manifestations they individu¬
ally witnessed. The names of the members of the
sub-committees are not published, so that no informa¬
tion is given as to who saw, and who did not see, any
particular manifestation put on record in the report.
Another leading feature of the report is, the evidence
it gives that many Spiritualists are imperfectly educated
in science, and that many scientific men know nothing
about Spiritualism, though they have sent letters on
the subject to the Dialectical Committee for publication.
The words “ magnetism ” and “ electricity ” are applied
by many of the witnesses to forces which are not
magnetism and are not electricity, and occasionally the
deponents indulge in some very wild speculations. The
scientific men who write to the committee say much
about cases of “ imposture; ” they, however, as a rule,
throw the shield of protection over the alleged impostors,
by withholding their names and addresses. Dr. Car¬
penter, Professor Huxley, and others have been very
unfortunate to have been brought by their friends into-
contact with so many alleged impostors. During the
last three or four years, we only know of two cases
of trickery at spirit circles. In the one case the tricks
were performed by Professor Tyndall, E.R.S., as con¬
fessed by himself in his book Fragments of Science for
Unscientific People, published by Longmans; the other
case was that of a Madame de Baddeley, who advertised
herself in many papers as a clairvoyant, but who has
never been recognised in this journal as having any¬
thing to do with Spiritualism. In fact, in consequence-
of having seen her advertisement, we intended to call
and scrutinise her alleged manifestations, just about
the time she was taken up by the police. Whether she
was a genuine clairvoyant or not we do not know, but
the police, by the order of the Government of Great
Britain and the Crown lawyers, tempted her into crime,
and then prosecuted her for the crime they tempted
her, by untruthful letters and false representations, to-
commit. These are the only two cases of trickery that
we know of, so that those people who wrote to the
committee that they have been to only to three or four
seances altogether, yet have encountered so many im¬
postors, have been singularly unfortunate.
Several of the witnesses gave evidence to the Dia¬
lectical Committee about visions in crystals, whereby
truthful, clear, and definite information, not known to
* London, 1871: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1871.
the seer, was obtained, and some speculative ideas are
published as to the probable cause of these manifesta¬
tions. We think that further research will prove the
true explanation of these phenomena to be, that the
crystal merely concentrates the attention of the observer
by withdrawing the eyes from other objects calculated
to interfere with a passive condition of certain portions
of the brain, and that a spirit then, by mesmeric in¬
fluence, impresses visions upon the mind of the observer.
In the same way a mesmeric lecturer can make some of
his subjects see whatever he wills that they shall
witness. If this explanation be correct, it helps to
clear up much that is mysterious in this part of the
report as it at present stands.
Another witness informed the committee that the
physical manifestations are most powerful when the air
is highly charged with electricity. We know of no
evidence of this, and should like to be informed where
the experiments were made. It requires very elaborate
instruments to accurately determine the electrical
tension of the atmosphere, one of the best for the pur¬
pose being a piece of apparatus invented by Sir William
Thomson, and fitted up some time since at Kew Obser¬
vatory, where, we believe, it is not at present in use.
This is a very fair subject for experimental investiga¬
tion by the proposed Psychological Society; the society
might also determine whether the raps produce any
large amount of electrical disturbance in the sounding
body.
Miss Blackwell contributes a very long article which
ought to have been considerably abridged by herself or
the editors, containing many speculative ideas held by
a section of the French Spiritualists, but which have
obtained no hold either in England or America. The
authoress gives no evidence whatever in support of her
assertions, and as these are days when philosophical
people will accept nothing blindly on authority, we may
reasonably ask to have the evidence first and the
hypotheses afterwards. What direct evidence has been
obtained in France in favour of “ reincarnation ? ”
What are the names and addresses of the mediums,
and where are the seances described at which the
revelations were made ? Or were the revelations made
through one or two mediums only, the said mediums
being crotchetty individuals surrounded by spirits like
themselves? We have put questions about Allen
Kardec’s speculations at most of the principal spirit
circles in London, and the spirits have declared that so
far as they know, the said speculations have no founda¬
tion in fact. Neither, taking the broad mass of
spiritual revelations given in America, have any such
ideas been originated there by the spirits. Miss
Blackwell makes some very sensible and well written
remarks about the desirability of threading together
masses of spiritual phenomena, by the discovery of the
laws running through the whole of them; this indeed, is
the object of all scientific research. Experience, however,
shows that the only safe method of procedure is to
collect the facts first, and then draw from them a
theory so surely grounded that its truth cannot possibly
be rationally questioned or denied. Miss Blackwell
reverses the process, by giving an overwhelming mass
of assertions, unsupported by any evidence at all. Her
remarks about the objective and subjective nature of
certain spiritual manifestations are interesting, and she
puts forth the idea that in some cases a double action is
necessary on the part of the spirits in making them¬
selves visible—that they sometimes partially materialise
their bodies, and also exercise a determining action on
the perceptive organs of the human beings to whom
they wish to show themselves.
Professor Huxley wrote two letters to the committee,
and we quote them here for historical purposes, in
order to place on record in these pages a great error
made by a great man:—
“ Sir,—I regret that I am unable to accept the invitation of the Council of
the Dialectical Society to co-operate "with a committee for the investigation
of Spiritualism, and for two reasons. In the first place I have no time for
such an inquiry, which would involve much trouble and (unless it were
unlike all inquiries of that kind which I have known) much annoyance.
The only case of ‘ Spiritualism ’ I have had the opportunity of examining
for myself, was as gross an imposture as ever came under my notice. But
supposing the phenomena to be genuine—they do not interest me. If any¬
body would endow me with the faculty of listening to the chatter of old
women and curates in the nearest cathedral town, I should decline the
privilege, having better things to do,
“And if the folk in the spiritual world do not talk more wisely and sensi¬
bly than their friends report them to do, I put them in the same category.
“ The only good that I can see in a ^demonstration of the truth of Spirit¬
ualism, is to furnish an additional argument against suicide. Better live a
crossing sweeper than die and be made to talk twaddle by a medium hired
at a guinea a siance. “T. H. Huxley.”
“ 29th January, 1869.”
By this letter Professor Huxley appears to hold very
orthodox ideas; he holds that a miracle should take
place at death, and that a common ignorant man should
be transformed by death into an angel of light—into
somebody else. If this were so, it would be a strong
argument against the evolution ” theory which Pro¬
fessor Huxley has so prominently advocated both in the
press and on the platform.
On reference to the August number of The Spirit-
ualist, it will be seen that some years ago a spirit at a
seance put forth nearly all the ideas and teachings
which Professor Huxley enunciated a few months since
in a lecture he delivered at the Royal Institution, an
abstract of the said lecture being printed in The Spi¬
ritualist of July 15th last. Are we, therefore, to con¬
sider that spirit message and Professer Huxley’s lecture
as the “ chatter of old women and curates? ”
Lastly, does Professor Huxley seriously mean that
he takes no interest in obtaining scientific demon¬
stration where he is going to after death ? Does he
take more interest in what lies before him during the
next twenty years, than during the next twenty
millions of years ? Is it no pleasure to him to obtain
evidence that the good education he seeks to give to
thousands of children will result in thousands of wiser
spirits being at a future time born into spirit life?
The following is the other letter from Professor
Huxley, and it is of a more thoughful and respectful
tone than the first:—
“ 24, Abbey-place, January 2nd, 1870.
“Sir,—I have been unwilling to reply to your letter of the 18th Dec., 1869
hastily, and I therefore delayed my answer until my return from a short
absence from London.
“ If the gentlemen you mention, and for whose judgment and capacity I
have every respect, have not been able in the course of some months to
arrive at results satisfactory to themselves and capable of being satisfac¬
torily stated to the scientific public, it would be mere presumption in' me to
hope that I could be more successful, without a much greater expenditure
of time and trouble. But for the present year my time and energies are
already so fully preoccupied that it would be little short of madness
for me to undertake an investigation of so delicate and difficult a character,
the only certain result of which would be an interminable series of attacks
from the side from which I might chance to differ.
“I hope that I am perfectly open to conviction on this or any other
subject; but I must frankly confess to you that it does not interest qje;
and that I think that my duty as a man of science towards the public may
be much better discharged by activity in other directions.
“Q-. W. Bennett, Esq.” “T. H. Huxley.”
Professor Huxley is really a great man and a great
philosopber, in his nature infinitely above those petty
jealousies and animosities so prevalent in the Royal
Society, and if he knew Spiritualism to be true, there is
no doubt he would stand forth without hesitation and
say so. Whenever he feels sufficiently interested to
investigate the subject, he will gain information about
the nature of man beginning where most of his present
knowledge ends.
Professor Tyndall was invited by the Dialectical
Committee to join them in their investigation. He
did not accept the invitation, but said that he would do
so if Mr. Crookes asked him to come. He has, there¬
fore, placed himself in a position analogous to the
following—“ If A asks me to look at a star-shower, I
will not do so, but if B asks me I will.” In either
case the star-showers go on as usual, thereby showing
a very improper want of deference to a philosopher
who will not honour the Almighty by observing certain
of His works without a special invitation.
There is a dead silence on the part of the Dialectical
Committee as to the manifestations now so common at
those circles where 'the spirits speak with their own
voices. Perhaps the Committee think they have given
the public quite as much information as they are able
at the present time to receive.
The book contains more typographical errors and
faulty punctuation than is usual in books published by
Messrs. Longmans, and in a future edition the work
might be very considerably improved by the abridgment
or the exclusion of the speculations of some of the
witnesses. In conclusion, it is but fair to state that
very much of the work of bringing out this valuable
historical book was performed by Mr. G. W. Bennett,
the Hon. Sec. to the Dialectical Committee, and that
the duty engaged a large portion of his time and
attention during many months.
THE SENSATIONS OF A CONSCIOUS GLAIRYOYANT. *
lx order to bring the progressive steps of this mystery pro¬
perly before the mind, I will now detail the impressions that
I received on first viewing clairvoyantly the surface of the
globe.
By placing myself in sympathetic relations to the operator
—by turning my thoughts inwardly, and shutting out the
fleeting disturbances and interruptions of the outer world—I
passed readily into the third mesmeric condition. This par¬
ticular event occurred, I think, on the eve of the first of
January, 1844. At that time (and during the four subsequent
years) I could not recall to my mind, when out of this condi¬
tion, anything which I had seen or said while in it. But now
the vast scene breaks upon my memory, in all the vividness
and beauty with which it was originally invested ; and I can
view and investigate—with far more certainty and with
deeper satisfaction—the same fields in connection with still
higher planes of existence and thought.
Before I seated myself, facing the operator, I observed a few
individuals in the room; as usual, they were after tests and
wonders; but I had, at the time, but little idea of having
anything resembling a successful experiment. I knew as yet
but very little of the nature of mesmerism ; had not learned
anything definitely of the wonderful phenomenon of clair¬
voyance ; ,did not, in fact, entertain a clear conception of apy
such condition. Nevertheless, the mystic mesmeric state was
completely induced in less than thirty minutes. As usual,
my mind was rendered incapable of controlling the slightest
muscle, or of realising any definite sensation, except a kind of
waving fluctuation, between what seemed to me to be either
decided action or inertia. This was a very strange feeling,
but not at all unpleasant. In a few minutes, however, all this
mental commotion subsided ; and then I passed into the most
delightful state of interior tranquillity. Not a'discorded sen¬
sation rolled across my spirit. I was completely “ bom
! again (’—being in the spirit. My thoughts were of the most
peaceful character. My whole nature was beautifully ex-
j panded. I thought of the joys of friendship! of the unutter¬
able pleasures of universal love! of the sweetness and happi¬
ness of united souls ! And yet, strange to say, I experienced
no unusual heart-emotion, which one might suppose would be
a natural consequence of themes so pleasurable.
Notwithstanding the fact that my mind was exalted and
* This narrative was written by Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis, one of the
most celebrated of the American clairvoyants, and we quote it from his
“ Autobiography,” published by W. White and Co., Boston, U. S.
meditating in this manner, I perceived as yet not the least
ray of light in any direction. Therefore, I concluded that I
was physically in a deep sleep, mentally engaged in a peace¬
ful reverie, and nothing more.
But this conclusion had no sooner settled among my
thoughts, as a probability, than I observed an intense black¬
ness before me—apparently extending hundreds of miles into
space, and enveloping the earth. This reminded me of my
first night’s experiment. Gradually, however, this midnight
mass of darkness lifted and disappeared; and, as gradually,
my perception was awakened and enlarged. All things in our
room—together with the individuals in it—were surprisingly
illuminated. Each human body was glowing with many
colours, more or less brilliant and magnetical. The figure of
each person was enveloped in a light atmosphere which
emanated from it. The same emanation extended up the
arms, and pervaded the entire body. The nails had one
sphere of light surrounding them, the hair another, the ears
another, and the eyes still another ; the head was very lumi¬
nous—the emanations, taken in combination, spreading out
into the air from four inches to as many feet.
The utter novelty of this view overwhelmed my mind with
astonishment and admiration. I could not comprehend it.
Again I felt confounded, and could not feel perfectly certain
that I was living on earth. It seemed that the whole earth,
with all of its inhabitants, had been suddenly translated into
some Elysium. I knew then of no language which could
describe my perceptions : hence, I did not yield the slightest
exclamation, nor attempt an utterance ; but continued to ob¬
serve, as one in solitude, with a feeling of unutterable joy and
holy reverence. A few moments more, dear reader, and I not
only beheld the exteriors of the individuals in that room—
clothed with light, as it were,—but I also as easily perceived
their interiors, and then, too, the hidden sources of those
luminous emanations. In my natural or ordinary state, re¬
member, I had never seen the organs of the human viscera;
but now I could see all the organs and their functions—the
liver, the spleen, the heart, the lungs, the brain—all with the
greatest possible ease. The whole body was transparent as a
sheet of glass ! It was invested with a strange, rich, spiritual
beauty. It looked illuminated as a city. Every separate
organ has several centres of light, besides being enveloped by
a general sphere peculiar to itself. And I did not see the
physical organ only, but its form, aspect, and colour also,
simply by observing the peculiar emanations surrounding it.
(For example : I saw the heart—surrounded by one general
combination of living colours—with special points of illumina¬
tion interspersed. The auricles and ventricles, together with
their orifices, gave out distinct flames of light; and the peri¬
cardium was a garment of magnetic life, surrounding and
protecting the heart while in the performance of its functions.
The pulmonary or respitorial department was also illuminated
with beautiful flames, but of different magnitude and colour.
The various air-chambers seemed like so many chemical labo¬
ratories. The fire in them wrought instantaneous chemical
changes in the blood that flowed through the contiguous mem¬
branes ; and the great sympathetic nerve, whose roots extend
throughout the lower viscera, and whose topmost branches
are lost in the superior (strata of the sensorium, appeared like
a column of life, interwoven and super-blended with a soft
and silvery fire!
The brain was likewise very luminous with prismatic
colours. Every organ of the cerebellum and cerebrum emitted
a light peculiar to itself. I could easily discern the form and
size of the organ by the shape and intensity of its emanations.
This view, I well remember, excited in me much admiration.
But I was so deeply in the magnetic condition, and so im¬
poverished in language, that I neither manifested any delight
nor described a particle of anything which I then beheld. In
some portions of the smaller brain I saw grey emanations, and
in another portion lower and darker shades of this colour—in
many and various degrees of distinctness—down to a sombre
and almost black flame.
On the other hand, in the higher portions of the larger or
superior brain, I saw flames which looked like the breath of
diamonds. At first I did not understond the cause of these
beautiful breathings; but soon I discovered them to he the
thoughts of the individuals concerning the strange 'phenomena
then manifested in my own condition. Still I continued my
observations. The superior organs of the cerebrum pulsated
with a soft, radiant fire; but it did not look like any fire or
flame that I had seen on earth. In truth, the brain seemed
like a crown of spiritual brightness—decorated with shining
crescents and flaming jewels. Here I will parenthetically re¬
mark, that what is thus natural to the human brain in this,
its first stage of existence, is preserved and indescribably im¬
proved in the spirit-land to which we all are surely tending.
Each brain seemed different—different in the degrees, modifi¬
cations, and combinations of the flames and colours—but
very, very beautiful! From the brain I saw the diversified
currents of life or magnetic fire, as they flowed through the
system. The bones appeared very dark or brown; the
muscles emitted in general a red light; the nerves gave out a
soft, golden flame ; the venous blood a dark, purple light; the
arterial blood a bright, livid sheet of fire, which constantly
reminded me of the electric phenomena of the clouds. Verily,
gentle friend, I saw every ligament, and tendon, and cartilagi¬
nous and membranous structure, each illuminated with
different sheets and magnetic centres of living light, which
indicated and set forth beautifully the presence of the spiritual
principle.
Thus I saw not only the real physical structures themselves,
but also their indwelling essences and vitalic elements.
Another thing was very remarkable : I knew the individuals
had garments upon them, because I could see an element of
vitality, more or less distinct, in every fibre of clothing upon their
persons ! Just as you would look, by an act of volition, from
the blisters in a pane of glass, through it, at the objects and
scenes beyond, so could I discern, and that, too, without a
conscious effort, the whole mystery and beauty of the human
economy—and enjoy that festive illumination which the ten
thousand flames of the golden candles of life imparted to
every avenue, pillar, chamber, window, and dome, of the
human temple !
But the sphere of my vision now began to widen. I could
see the life of nature in the atoms of the chairs, tables, etc. ;
I could see them with far more satisfaction—as regards their
use, structure, locality—than I ever remembered to have
known in my ordinary state. Next, I could distinctly peiv
ceive the walls of the house. At first, they seemed very dark
and opaque ; but soon became brighter, and then transparent;
and, presently, I could see the walls of the adjoining dwell¬
ing. These also immediately became light, and vanished—*
melting like clouds before my advancing vision. I could now
see the objects, the furniture, and persons, in the adjoining
house, as easily as those in the room where I was situated.
Nov. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
At this moment I heard the voice of the operator. He
inquired “ if I could hear him speak plainly.” 1 replied in
the affirmative. He then asked concerning my feelings, and
“whether I could discern anything.” On replying affirma¬
tively, ihe desired me to convince some persons that were
present, by “ reading the title of a book, with the lids closed,
behind four or five other books. ” Having tightly secured my
bodily eyes with handkerchiefs, he then placed the books on
a horizontal line with my forehead, and I saw and read the
title without the slightest hesitation. This test, and many
experiments of the kind, were tried and repeated; and the
demonstration of vision, independent of the physical organs of
sense, was clear and unquestionable.
At length, feeling somewhat exhausted, I resigned myself
to a deeper sleep, which seemed to be stealing over my outer
form. Presently, my former perceptions returned with greater
power. The village was now instantly subjected to my
vision. It was now as easy for me to see the people moving
about their respective houses as in the open thoroughfares,
and it was also as easy to see their most interior selves as the
external lights and shades of their physical bodies.
’Twas the first of January, remember—cold, bright, cloud¬
less, frosty, beautiful! A piercing wintry wind swept o’er
the earth, chilling and freezing as it went; but my percep¬
tions waved on—the village with its inhabitants melted away
before me, and my enjoyment was greater and fresher than
ever I experienced in the glow and beauty of May or June.
By a process of inter-penetration, as I now term it, I was
placed en rapport with Nature ! The spirit of Nature and
my spirit had instantly and for the first time formed—what
seemed to me to be—a kind of psychological or sympathetic
acquaintance—the foundation of a high and eternal commu¬
nion.’ Her spacious cabinet was thrown open to me, and it
seemed that I was the sole visitor at Nature’s fair—a royal
banquet!
The properties and essences of plants were distinctly visible.
Every fibre of the wild flower, or atom of the mountain-
violet, was radiant with its own peculiar life. The capillary
ramifications of the streamlet-mosses—the fine nerves of the
cicuta-plant, of the lady’s-slipper, and of flowering vines—all
were laid open to my vision. I saw the living elements and
essences flow and play through these simple forms of matter;
and in the same manner I saw the many and various trees of
the forests, fields, and hills, all filled with life and vitality of
different hues and degrees* of refinement. It seemed that I
could see ihe locality, properties, qualities, uses, and essences, of
every form and species of wild vegetation, that had an exist¬
ence anywhere in the earth’s constitution. The living, vivid
beauty and overawing sublimity of this vision I cannot even
now describe ; although, as the reader will see, I have since
frequently contemplated scenes far more beautiful and inef¬
fable.
But my perceptions still flowed on ! The broad surface of
the earth, for many hundred miles before the sweep of my
vision—describing nearly a semicircle—became transparent as
the purest water. The deep alluvial and diluvial depositions
were distinguishable from the deeper stratifications of stone
and earth, by the comparative and superior brilliancy of the
ingredients of the former. Earth gave off one particular
colour, stones another, and minerals still another. When
first I discerned a bed of minerals—it was a vein of iron-ore—
I remember how I started and shivered with a sensation of
fright. It seemed that the earth was on fire! The instan¬
taneous elimination of electricity, from the entire mass, gave
the appearance of a deep-seated furnace under the earth. And
my agitation was not lessened by perceiving that these rivers
of mineral fire ran under the ocean for hundreds of miles, and
yet were not diminished in a single flame—yea, could not be
extinguished !
Innumerable beds of zinc, copper, silver, limestone, and gold,
next arrested my attention; and each, like the different
organs in the human body, gave off diverse kinds of luminous
atmospheres. All these breathing emanations were more or
less bright, variegated, and beautiful. Everything had a
glory of its own! Crystalline bodies emitted soft, brilliant,
azure, and crimson emanations. The various salts in the sea
sparkled like living gems ; sea-plants extended their broad
arms, filled with hydrogenous life, and embraced the joy of
existence ; the deep valleys and dim-lit ravines, through which
old ocean unceasingly flows, were peopled with countless
minute animals—all permeated and pulsating with the spirit
of Nature; while the sides of ocean-mountains—far, far
beneath the high pathway of travel and human commerce—
seemed literally studded with emeralds, diamonds, gold,
silver, pearls, and sparkling gems, beyond computation. Oh,
the ocean is a magnificent] cabinet of beauty and wealth im¬
mense ; and, by virtue of more recent investigations, I am
impressed to say that man shall yet possess it!
Be patient, friendly reader, for I have yet other scenes to
. relate. I now looked abroad upon the fields of dry land, and
saw the various species of animals that tread the earth. The
external anatomy and the internal physiology of the animal
kingdom were alike open to my inspection. An instinctive
perception of comparative or relative anatomy filled my mind
in an instant. The why and the wherefore of the vertebrated
and invertebrated, of the crustaceous and molluscan divisions
of the animal world flowed very pleasantly into my under¬
standing ; and I saw the brains, the viscera, and the complete
anatomy, of animals that were (at that moment) sleeping or
prowling about in the forests of the Eastern hemisphere,
hundreds and even thousands of miles Jrom the room in which I
was malting these observations !
It must not be expected that I shall detail a three-hun¬
dredth part of the particulars of my first introduction to an
intuitional perception of Nature. At best, I can but give you
a rude outline, for words do not answer the purpose : they
seem to me like stone prisons in which too often we coercively
incarcerate our highest thoughts.
In this mystic vision, gentle reader, I saw everything just
as you will—with the penetrating senses of the spirit—after
you pass away from the visible body at physical death. It
was very, very beautiful to see everything clothed with an
atmosphere! Every little grain of salt or sand ; every minute
plant, flower, and herb ; every tendril of the loftiest trees—
their largest and minutest leaves ; the weighty mineral and
ponderous animal forms, existing in the broad fields before me
—each and all were clothed with a dark, or brown, or gray, or
red, blue, green, yellow, or white atmosphere—divided and
subdivided into an almost infinite variety of degrees of inten¬
sity, brilliancy, and refinement. And—mark the fact!—in
each mineral, vegetable, and animal, I saw something of man !
In truth, the whole system of creation seemed to me like the
fragments of future human beings ! In the beaver I saw, in
■embryo, one faculty of the human mind ; in the fox, another;
in the wolf, another; in the horse, another ; in the lion,
.another; yea, verily, throughout the vast concentric circles of
mineral, vegetable, and animal life, I could discern certain'
relationships to, and embryological indications of man ! Had
I then possessed my present instinct of language, I would
have exclaimed, in the language of the poet-psalmist :—
“ Herbs gladly cure our flesh, because they
Find their acquaintance there.
sic . * * * * % *
All things unto ou/r flesh are kind."
Understood in this sense, candid reader, how instructive and
appropriate was Peter’s vision—related in the tenth chapter of
Acts—in which he saw a great white sheet let down from
heaven, containing all manner of four-footed beasts, creeping
things, etc., and was told to slay and eat! All this was say¬
ing simply thus : “ Peter, thouneedest not feel too exclusive,
too partial, too aristocratic, too high-minded, and lifted above
the meanest of thy fellow-men, nor yet above the little worm
that crawls beneath thy feet; for, behold, thou art related to
every four-footed beast and creeping thing that the Lord hath
made : acknowledge, therefore, thy universal relationships
and concentring sympathies, and be kind and lenient hence¬
forth to everything that lives.” Now, since that memorable
night, I have met with too many who need Peter’s lesson.
They, like him, shrink from this new method of tracing out
their genesis, or ancestral derivation; and such say, “We
are not used to eating unclean things.” But the time is fast
approaching, I believe, when mankind will feel their oneness
with Nature and its God—to the total annihilation of all
narrow-mindedness and empty superficiality.
In my glorious vision, I well remember how I gazed at the
little plants in the fields—and saw, lovingly encircling each
one, an atmosphere of life peculiar to itself. This golden and
hazy emanation—encircling some species of vegetation—was
apparently from four inches to eight feet in diameter. Some
animals gave off a sombre sphere three or four feet thick, and
beyond this a very dark, thin air—as many feet more—which
shaded off into the surrounding space. In all this, the Law
of Sympathy was very distinctly visible. (See third volume
of The Great Harmonia.) I saw that everything in Nature
was arranged and situated in accordance with this universal
law; and, by it, that all true sympathetic relationships are
established and reciprocally maintained. The relative posi¬
tions of mineral bodies in the bosom of the earth; the situa¬
tion of trees, vegetation, animals, and human beings; yea,
the relative positions of the sun and stars, even—were mani¬
festly conducted by this infinite sympathy. I saw the diffe¬
rent crystalline bodies of the earth act upon each other, and,
intermediately, upon the solid substances to which they were
attached—by means of a generous commingling of their
magnetic emanations. I saw the flowers exhale their odours,
with which perfume they clothed themselves, and then
formed attachments with neighbouring flowers—by breathing
out upon them, according to a spontaneous blending of
I spheres, the sweet breath of their life. There was not a dew-
drop, chambered in the petals of the rose, that did not glitter
with a living essence—prophetic of coming animation ! I saw
currents of electricity flowing from a mineral bed in one por¬
tion of the earth, to its kindred (but positive) neighbour in
another department of the same hemisphere. And I saw the
little flames, arising from the essences of plants and trees,
leap upward into flowing currents which were instantly ab¬
sorbed and wafted away to more foreign and proper destina¬
tions.
No, no, language cannot describe this scene ! Sufficient to
say, that all Nature was radiant with countless lights, with
atmospheres, with colours, with breathings, and with emana¬
tions—all throbbing and pulsating with an indestructible life-
essence—which seemed just ready to graduate and leap up
into the human constitution! Everything apparently
emulated to be man ! But I could no longer endure the ex¬
quisite happiness—I felt incapable of maintaining a quiet
feeling—my emotions had become so deep and unutterable !
I now yearned for a companion, for association. For a
moment I realised painfully that I was viewing all this mag¬
nificence alone ! This thought made me feel isolated also,
and incapable of retaining my recollection. Whereupon I
began to think yearningly of the village—of the room in
which I had taken a seat for the magnetic experiment—of
the individuals whom I had seen in the room—of the operator,
too—and, immediately, my vision began to diminish and con¬
tract. The distant continents, oceans, fields, hills, forests—
all gradually faded and disappeared. The effulgent lights
were left far behind ! Now, I could discern, as before, the
interior condition of those in the room, and the face of the
operator also, who now said—“ Come, come, Jackson, you’ve
been very still! Can you see anything—have you anything
to say ?” I made an effort to describe what I have been
writing in this chapter. I remember how I struggled for a
few words; but, as I was about to relinquish all attempts
thereat, I involuntarily exclaimed, in a low and tremulous
voice, “ How beautiful!”
I heaid my own accents, and never did I stronger realise
the total inexpressiveness and impotency of human language !
At that time I said and beheld no more. In a few moments
I felt the hand of the operator passing over my head. Soon
I returned to my ordinary state, with not a single vestige of
what I had seen alive in my external memory. Therefore,
all that I have herein related is a revival of the impressions
that were then made upon my mind.
Mrss Fowler’s Meditjmship.—Miss Lottie Fowler is an
American trance and clairvoyant medium, who has recently
arrived in London. Towards the close of last year she an¬
nounced, while in the trance state, that on a certain day there
would be an explosion in the works of the Union Metallic
Cartridge Company, Bridgeport, Connecticut, U.S., and that
one man would be killed. This so frightened some of the
girls employed there that they would not go to work, so the
police took the matter up, but when the day came an explosion
occurred, which killed Mr. Zaotti, the chemist, who happened
to be the only person in the building at the time. This caused
great excitement, and the local and some of the New York
papers contained long accounts of the trial. Judge Bullock
decided in favour of Miss Lottie Fowler, and she was carried
back to her hotel in triumph by the crowd. Some Spiritualists
who have called upon her since her arrival in London have
had proofs of spirit identity through her mediumship, and some
have failed to do so. Mr. N. Fabyan Daw, for instance, had
some good tests, but in our own case the communications
were unreliable and inaccurate, though here and there glimpses
f>f truth flashed out; but we have had enough experience in
Spiritualism to know that accurate knowledge as to the
powers of any medium cannot be obtained at one, or even
two or three sittings. Miss Fowler says that while she is in
the trance state her pulse has been noticed to beat with far more
than its normal rapidity ; a few minutes after she wakes from \
the trance an icy chill comes over her whole frame. 1
MRS. BASSETT’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mbs. C. E. A. Bassett, of Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.,
is a well-known non-professional medium, in whose presence
very good voice manifestations are obtained, as well as spirit
lights, raps, and movements of solid objects. The voice mani¬
festations through Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship are not of , the
usual intermittent character, but long unbroken conversations'
are kept up with the spirits, whose remarks also are sensible,
and to the point. Mr. Bassett informs us :—
“ We first saw spiritual manifestations about three years
ago, at a spirit circle, at which Mrs. Everitt was the medium,
and after witnessing the phenomena, had no faith whatever in
them, but determined to prove their falsity, by trying for our¬
selves at home. Sixteen years previously we had heard of
table-turning, and on trying found that the table turned for
us, but had no idea that spirits produced the movements.
Later still, we refused an invitation to attend a seance with
the Davenport Brothers, under the impression that the news¬
papers told the truth, and the mediums were impostors. After
the stance with Mrs. Everitt, we began ours at home, sitting
occasionally, and always in the light. At our first sitting
certain table movements rather startled us, which we accounted
for on Faraday’s theory of unconscious muscular action, but
afterwards found that when we removed our hands from the
table, the same movements sometimes took place. At the
fourth or fifth of our weekly sittings, we heard raps for the first
time ; the raps continued for the next two months, and then
we began to sit in the dark. We then heard other noise?,
sometimes as if a bird were flying about the room. All this
time we were not convinced of spirits having anything to do
with the manifestations, but ascribed them to an unknown
force.
“After forming this opinion, we sat one evening, by the
light of a paraffin lamp. I placed a concertina under the table
and said—‘ If this is spirit power, strike the notes on the con¬
certina, which I have placed under the table, if that is better
for you, and we will accept it as truth, and if not, we will
have nothing further to do with it.’ Immediately the notes
came out full and powerful, so as to frighten us; the accordion
also moved about, hitting against my legs and the legs of the
table as if it were alive. I said, ‘Well, we must accept it.’
This was about six months after we began our sittings. We
then invited some friends to come and witness the phenomena.
They were startled, and could not account for what they saw.
Things went on in this way for another six months, when one
night we found at the close of the seance that a sheet of paper
had been written on, and the name of a friend who had
‘died’ some years previously was appended to the com¬
munication. It was unmistakably his own signature. After¬
wards three or four other spirits, unknown to us, gave us
messages in the same way, but they were known, and their
signatures recognised by their friends present at the seance.
Occasionally we get this direct spirit-writing now.
“ The next phase consisted in the formation in the dark of
spirit hands, which touched us ; they opened and shut doors,
and played frequently on the violin and other instruments.
Yarious objects were carried about the room, and sometimes
made to gently touch us. Sometimes articles were brought
from other rooms in the house, while the doors and windows
of the stance room were closed.
“ About two years after we began, as we were sitting for
other manifestations in the light, and while several persons
were present, we most unexpectedly heard the spirit-voice for
the first time. Since then we have had at different times as
many as seven spirit-voices ; three of these spirits who speak
with audible voices almost invariably attend our seances now.
“ The name of the spirit who speaks with most ease through
Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship, is James Lombard, and he has
proved his personal identity to the satisfaction of his brother,
who lives in Ghandos-road, Stratford, and is in the employ¬
ment of the Great Eastern Railway Company. The names of
the other two spirits who frequently talk are Robinson and
Dalman. They do not speak with the same voices they had
while on earth, as they state that they have to manufacture
speaking apparatus out of the emanations from the medium
and other members of the circle, before they can make their
words audible at all.
“ Altogether at our house we have given about two hundred
seances, besides accepting invitations to all parts of London.
We have sat with ministers of religion, writers for the public
press, professional men, and men of science, and have given
them every opportunity of testing the genuineness of the
manifestation. They have been surprised at the length of
time the spirits talk ; sometimes half an hour has passed
without the voice stopping for one moment. James Lom¬
bard, in his peculiar style, usually takes up the conversation
of the sitters, giving his opinions freely, and sometimes de¬
scribing other spirits present. Mr. Robinson usually gives a
dissertation on the reality of a future state, and the benefits
arising from spiritual manifestations. Mr. Dolman usually
speaks of the growth and progress of the spirit in the spheres,
and of our duty to God and to our neighbours.
“ In conclusion, we have proved the truthfulness of Spiri¬
tualism for ourselves, and have the consolation of knowing
that through us it has reached the homes and hearts of many
more.”
James Lombard usually, if not always, speaks from a point
about eighteen inches above Mrs. Bassett’s head; the other
two spirits speak, one from close over her left shoulder, and
the other from close over her right shoulder. They say that
—“ They take the emanations from the medium and other
members of the circle, wherewith they make speaking
apparatus which they use to talk with. The voices are not
their own natural voices, and they are sorry they cannot
make them more pleasant to the listeners. The emanations
they use come off from the bodies of the sitters very much
from their point of view like smoke, but finer and more
ethereal than smoke. The emanations from some individuals
are no good at all for the manufacture of speaking apparatus,
and a medium is simply a person who gives off the right
emanations in greater quantity than other people.”
Mrs. Bassett feels a little timid just before the manifesta¬
tions begin, but otherwise, unlike most mediums, does not
usually experience any peculiar sensations while the spirits
are working. Sometimes the spirits tell her she is going to
cough, and in a few seconds she coughs as foretold, though
she does not know it herself. She is sometimes entranced
by the spirits, but not often. Mrs. Bassett gets good average
table-moving and rapping manifestations in the light.
Mr. C. F. Yarlet, the electrician, has been travelling
in Switzerland and Italy for the last two months. His absence
from London has delayed the taking of the preliminary steps
for the formation of the Psychological Society, but he returned
to town last Saturday. It is thought desirable that most of
the members of the Society shall not be Spiritualists.
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Not. 15, 1871.
Poetti).
PIOTUBES OP MEMORY.
BY ALICE CAREY.
Among the beautiful pictures
That hang on Memory’s wall,
Is one of a dim old forest
That seemeth the best of all;
Not for its gnarled oaks olden,
Dark with the mistletoe;
Not for the violets golden,
That sprinkle the vale below;
Not for tiie milk-white lilies
That lean from the fragrant hedge,
Coquetting all day with the sunbeams
And stealing their golden edge;
Not for the vines on the upland,
Where the bright red berries rest,
Nor the pinks, nor the pale sweet cowslip.
It seemeth to me the best.
I once had a little brother,
With eyes that were dark and deep—
In the lap of that dim old forest
He lieth in peace asleep;
Light as the down on the thistle,
Free as the winds that blow,
We roved there the beautiful summers—
The summers of long ago ;
But his feet on the hills grew weary,
And one of the autumn eves,
I made for my little brother
A bed of the yellow leaves.
Sweetly his pale arms folded
My neck in a meek embrace.
As the light of immortal beauty
Silently covered his face;
And when the arrows of sunset
Lodged in the tree-tops bright,
He fell in his saint like beauty
Asleep by the gates of Light
Therefore, of all the pictures
That hang on memory’s wall,
The one of the dim old forest
Seemeth the best of all.
(Eomspontinice.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE “ QUARTERLY REYIEW ” ON SPIRITUALISM, AND THE
REPORT OP THE DIALECTICAL COMMITTEE.
Sir,—Two events have occurred since my letter in your last
number which appear to me of greater weight as regards the
scientific study of Spiritualism, than any except the discovery
of the means of communicating with the unseen agencies of
Spiritualism, or Psychism. The one the publication of the
report of the committee of the Dialectical Society—the other,
an article of fifty pages in the Quarterly Review of October.
Mr. Winkle shut his eyes and fired wildly into the air, and
a fine plump partridge fell at his feet, and at least in one of
these cases the same efEect has occurred. Read carefully the
beautiful prospectus of the fine frigate Dialectical (in the
Spiritualist of Oct. 15), armed for fearlessly combating errors
of all sorts, with licence to attack popular delusions of all
kinds, to overhaul politics, religion, and social opinions, in fact
every craft which she might meet on her cruise. Well, at last
they laid her alongside .the privateer Spiritualism, which had
been for some time capturing poor fishing-boats and some
tolerable-sized vessels. They detailed off the boarders who were
to carry the privateer—these did their duty, and established
a firm footing on the main-deck. Meanwhile the captain and
superior officers took fright, ordered the victorious crew out of
the prize, and refused to bring her into port. The seamen
who bore the brunt of the attack, now lay their case before
the public.
Now, if you will please to examine the programme of the
Dialectical, you will find that the men entering that Society
bound themselves to cast aside all prejudices, and to follow
truth for truth’s sake. What their fathers and mothers
believed, what was the opinion of Lords, Commons, Mrs.
Grundy, or the Working-man was nothing to them. Neither
Conservative nor Radical, High Church nor Dissent. Giving
a certificate to virtue after she is proved virtuous, and willing
to hear all exculpations of vice before condemning her.
Fearless of consequences, “ conscious of honesty and purity
of motive, and desirous for the wisdom and happiness of
man.”
A very proud and laudable programme, and if they could be
relied on to carry it out, I should propose “ That the present
House of Commons be superseded, and the Dialectical Society
empowered to undertake all its duties.”
However, instead of sticking together and covering them¬
selves with immortal glory, they have got frightened to death
(the secretary says they are not dead), and dissolved the society
“ on that question''' Hence a book of 450 pages. Now, for
the results which will follow the publication of this book, it
matters not whether the council of the whole Society publish,
or only the committee, the pioneers who, sent by the main
body, explored the phenomena of this much anathematised
science. Neither does it matter, in results, that the explorations
made and guaranteed personally by the Committee are only
surface-findings—as though they had been deputed by the
main body to explore a region for gold, and having indis¬
putably found some nuggets are obliged by the main body to
abandon the field. Enough, they have silenced Mr. and Mrs.
Grundy on that head—•“ There is something in it.”
Out of the dissolution of the Dialectical on this subject how
many Dialecticals will arise, north, south, east, and west in
Great Britain and out of it ? Men are great imitators. Thousands
upon thousands of steady sedate men who would not inquire
into the subject as long as it appeared to be the province of
women and devotees, will not feel themselves lowered to tread
in the steps of the Committee of the Dialectical Society.
There are many very clever men who have no money, who are
not basking in the sunshine of professorships, who have plenty
of time with nothing to do in it, and whose opinion of them-
.selves is that they have capabilities to discover the philosopher’s
stone, and extract fame and fortune from it. All these, year
after year, will begin where the Committee left off, until no
stone remains unturned.
Now for the Quarterly, which proves that a man may shoot
a very fine partridge without knowing how to handle a gun.
The Quarterly is a standard, orthodox, highly respectable
magazine. All the societies and reading-rooms take it in ;
the nobility and clergy, Church and State, peruse it with
respect. To Mr. and Mrs. Grundy it is an oracle. Eighteen
years ago the Quarterly “ essayed to guide our readers as to
what to believe.'' This means, “ I am prophet and oracle.”
What does our oracle say, Oct. 1871 ?
Article I., p. 307, puts an end to witches, and witchcraft, and
wizards, and familiar spirits altogether, and makes seancing
a perfectly innocent amusement, in fact, dreaming awake.
“ Our position, then, is that so-called spirit communications
come from within, not from without the individuals who sup¬
pose themselves to be recipients of them ; it is (p. 308) “ uncon¬
scious muscular action,” and (p. 319) “unconscious cerebra¬
tion.’’
We accept the dictum with thanks. No more can Mrs.
Stately, Mrs. Prudence, or Mrs. Grundy object to Louisa,
Clementina, Florence, and the little ones holding a seance, and
inviting their friends. The subject even was tabooed before
as highly improper, even fearful, with reference to what is
said in the Bible about it. But while as good Christians
we admit the truth of the Bible to its fullest extent, the
present are a different class of phenomena entirely, and free
from the ban which Moses laid on them. And to enable these
dear young ladies (and mamma can join them, too, now) to
enjoy these “ spirit communications from within,” most excel¬
lent and detailed directions are given (p. 304). Of course our
friend who “ essays to guide his readers ” would not give the
most accurate directions how to do anything which is wrong
or sinful to do. It would be like publishing an essay on
housebreaking and giving accurate directions as to making
false keys, jemmies, and all instruments necessary for the
purpose. The thing is perfectly innocent, else why make
known to all the world how to do it ?
I, it is true, not only think it perfectly innocent, but that
! every individual, high and low, has a perfect right to investi-
i gate any and everything in the heavens above, the earth
below, and the waters under the earth, and what passes inside
their brains and bodies. In fact, I am a non-elected Dialec¬
tician. But there are hundreds of thousands—millions—who
regard these practices as unholy, and to them the assurance
of so high an authority is taking their chains off. Altogether
this is a very happy deliverance from a very great bugbear.
We now come to the directions (p. 304), which are very
complete. I will only add a few suggestions under the head
of Parlour experiments on 11 unconscious muscular action.”
These, however, may not succeed at the first trial, but if the
power is strong they will eventually.
Put a paper tube on the table. Let all the company by
turns speak through it. You may perhaps then soon hear
unconscious cerebration talking to you. Put glasses. Take
off the wire and draw the cork of a bottle of champagne, put
the cork in loosely, put out the candle, and request uncon¬
scious muscular action to fill all the glasses to the brim—you
all the while holding hands all round. Now drink off the
champagne all except one glass, which put under the table,
hold hands firmly, blow out the candle, and ask unconscious
muscular action to drink off the glass of champagne under the
table while you are holding hands. You will find it done—at
least I have repeatedly—and the same circumstance is men¬
tioned as occurring at another sdance last week. Other liquors
may be used, always asking what unconscious muscular action
would prefer.
Put a plate of nice, well-sweetened currant-pie under the
table—you should eat a little before you put the candle out—
you will find it gone, plate and all. ‘ ‘ Unconscious cerebra¬
tion ” has eaten it while your both hands were held. You had
better not put a silver spoon, else that will go too.
You may ask “unconscious cerebration” to bring you flowers,
fruits, scents, or anything, and by-and-by, if the power is
strong, you will have perfumes thrown over you, and heaps of
flowers, fruits, &c., brought, though there were none in the
room, and you locked the door. I could give you other more
curious experiments, but these are enough for the present.
Whether the Quarterly intended this effect when it shot off
the article is immaterial; that is the effect it will have in a
great number of cases where Spiritualism is not now admitted
into the house, but where “ Mamma ” eagerly reads all the
spiritual publications, but carefully keeps them from her
daughters. Besides, I have known the practice of mediumship
in a family forbidden, for fear it might hinder the young
lady’s prospects in marriage. This prejudice will also cease ;
nay even some gentlemen might prefer a wife endowed with
a considerable quantity of “ unconscious muscular action.”
The rest of the fifty-page essay is very interesting, but it is
out of the question to criticise an essay on Spiritualism written
by a person who “ does not move in Spiritual circles.”
Aleajacta est, viris acquirit eundo. The old mariners in the
bark of Spiritualism may rest from their labours. Every
studding-sail is now set, but what port the ship will get into
is not laid down in any chart. S. G.
Nov. 1st, 1871.
WARNING BY DREAMS AT SEA.
Sir,—This day I received a letter from one of my sons
who sailed in the Sir Robert Peel for New York. In it is
narrated the following:—
“ We had a most awful storm last Friday; not one of us
expected to live. The second cabin was floating in water.
A heavy sea struck and killed our first mate. He was buried.
I read the funeral service over him last Sunday;
“ Several days before the storm which proved so fatal to the
mate, he had dreamt two or three times that his wife was in
deep blach, and it disturbed him a great deal, but little think¬
ing, poor man, that the black was for himself.” Who warned?
Premonitions in the foregoing, and divers other cases, are
very frequent and hereditary in some families. It would be
well to encourage the narration of facts, as the answering of
the questions “ Who produces ? ” and ‘ 1 How produced ? ”
would develope the principles that govern the production of
such warnings. John Jones.
Enmore Park, S.E., Sept. 22nd, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALISM COMMITTEE AND DR. EDMUNDS.
Sir,—I regret that you should have spoken as you have of
Dr. Edmunds in your review of the “ Dialectical ” Report on
Spiritualism. Throughout the investigation, as the committee
unanimously attested in a resolution passed at the last meet¬
ing, Dr. Edmunds fulfilled the duties of chairman with equal
“ ability, courtesy, and impartiality.” So carefully did he
avoid all expression Of opinion on the subject under conside¬
ration, that until the conclusion of the inquiry, more than one
eminent Spiritualist claimed him for a convert.
Two of the charges you [?] have brought against him are
moreover untrue, and I trust to your sense of justice to allow
me the opportunity of contradicting them.
With regard to the siance with Mrs. Guppy, of the 26th
May, 1868, I have myself seen, together with some dozen
members of the late committee, the evidently spontaneously
written invitation of the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. , for whom,
as Mr. Guppy states, the seance was arranged ; and I beg to
assure you that not only is the invitation most full and com¬
plete for Dr. Edmunds, but also for any one other person whom
Dr. Edmunds might choose to bring. Mr. Guppy may have
been ignorant of this, but the fact is as I state.
The other imputation to which I desire to refer, is contained?
in Mr. Coleman’s letter. Mr. Coleman says that Dr; Edmunds,
at a meeting of the London Dialectical Society, appealed to me-
to substantiate an assertion he had made, and that I refused
the assertion being, that Mr. Coleman had assured the com¬
mittee that if they would have a seance with Mrs. Marshall,
they would “ see a table go bodily up to the ceiling.” How
Mr. Coleman can so have misapprehended me, I am at a loss
to conceive. What I said was, that I perfectly remembered the
circumstance, but that I had considered Mr. Coleman to speak
in a jocular manner, and had not attached the same importance-
to his assurance as Dr. Edmunds. I have since been con¬
versing on the matter with an eminent Spiritualist member
of the committee, and he also states that he remembers Mr.
Coleman making use of the words attributed to him, and that
he thought him very rash in doing so.
I cannot believe you would desire that anything more or
less than the truth should appear in your journal, and there¬
fore feel confident that you will give due prominence to this,
communication. G. Wheatley Bennett,
Late Secretary to the Dialectical Society’s
Committee on Spiritualism.
38, Chancery-lane, W.C.
[1. We stated that Dr. Edmunds had spoken in favour, of the Daven¬
ports on a public platform, and know that up to about the time of going to
press with the report, the conduct of Dr. Edmunds was fair enough
towards Spiritualism; the rapidity with which he veered round was
remarkable. 2. The remarks of Mrs. Gtuppy and Mr. Coleman are theirs,
not ours; they would not intentionally make inaccurate statements. 3. Of
course it is a duty to give a fair hearing to all sides of all questions, so far
as space will permit, and to allow no improper imputations to rest upon-
any private individuals.—Ed.]
THE REPORT OP THE DIALECTICAL COMMITTEE.
Sir,—Permit me to correct a singular error into which Mr.
Coleman has fallen with reference to Dr. Edmunds’s assertion
that, when it was a question whether Mrs. Marshall should be
engaged as a medium by the Dialectical Society’s Committee,
Mr. Coleman decided the matter by saying that, if she came,
“ we should see a table go up to the ceiling.” Mr. Coleman
says :—
“At a meeting of the Society, Dr. Edmunds, during a discussion, made
a similar statement when I happened, without his knowing it, to be present.
I at once told him it was an entire misapprehension on his part. I could
not, and never had made such a proposition. Dr. Edmunds looked round
for support from some one of the many members of the committee who
were present, and not finding any, he eagerly and confidently appealed to-
Mr. Bennett, the Secretary, who entered the room at that moment. That
gentleman replied, ‘ No, I have no recollection of such an assurance being
given.’
“I added, ‘I was glad to find Dr. Edmunds was not supported in his
erroneous impression, and as the statement was absolutely unfounded, I
hoped he would never repeat it.”
Now, Sir, I was present when Mr. Bennett came in, and was
appealed to as to the matter of fact by Dr. Edmunds. His
reply was directly the contrary of that which Mr. Coleman
states. He said he recollected Mr. Coleman making the asser¬
tion that a table would go up to the ceiling if Mrs. Marshall
came ; but, he added, “ I thought at the time that Mr. Cole¬
man spoke jocularly.” Of the fact that the words were said
Mr. Bennett was as certain as Dr. Edmunds himself. Mr.
Coleman, is therefore, quite in error in the matter ; his memory
as to what he himself said on the first occasion being obviously
as treacherous as it is now proved to be with regard to what
Mr. Bennett stated on the second. Now on last Tuesday
evening I heard Mr. Bennett repeat his statement. Of course
it is not a question here of the manner or intention with
which Mr. Coleman’s rash promise was made ; it was as open
to Dr. Edmunds to interpret it seriously, as to Mr. Bennett to
think it was a joke ; but Mr. Coleman was not confirmed in
his denial by Mr. Bennett; he was unequivocally contradicted
by him. -
Trusting, Sir, to your sense of justice to insert this in your
next impression, I am yours truly, Grattan Geary.
The Eastern Post Offices, 89, Worship-street, London,
October 19th, 1871.
SPIRITUALISM IN BIRMINGHAM.
A “ Psychological Society ” has been formed in Birming¬
ham, and Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists are alike its mem¬
bers. The society has taken the public room, 31, Paradise-street^
Birmingham; has furnished it with seats, and also provided a
harmonium. A public lecture is given every Sunday evening,
conversational meetings are held on Sunday mornings, seances
and debates being conducted on week evenings. The first
Sunday evening meeting was held Oct. 29th, the President,
Mr. Hawkes, in the chair, when Mr. Robert Harper delivered
an able lecture on “Popular Objections to Spiritualism.”
The lecturer showed in the first place that the objection, that
the manifestations are too undignified for spirits to do at all,
was altogether illogical, because admitting the existence of
spiritual beings, it then follows that they, wishing to com¬
municate with us, must come into our sphere and appeal to
us through the physical senses. The speaker .observed that
although this mode of communication was generally adopted
in the first instance, the spiritual' intelligences, afterwards, so
educated the person with whom they wished to communicate,
that such physical telegraphing was ultimately unnecessary..
The next objection considered was concerning the difference
between the statements of individual spirits. Mr. Harper
showed that difference of opinion existed in this life as to
the statement of certain facts, and he, knowing spirits to be
but disembodied men and women, could not wonder at differ¬
ences in their statements. He spoke of astronomy, geology,,
and the other sciences having broad facts admitted by all,
although scientific authorities differed in Vaeminutice. “ How,”
asked Mr. Harper, “ did we deal with such apparent mis¬
statements ?” We collected together the highest testimony,
and from our reason gathered an inference. In speaking
of Spiritualism being the work of Satan or of evil spirits, as
affirmed by some, and notably at the present time by Rev-
John Jones, of Liverpool, who has just published a pamphlet
on Spiritualism v. Satanism, the, lecturer introduced in a
striking manner the case of Jesus, when it was said, “He-
cast out devils by the prince of devils,” and admitted that if
beneficence was of the devil, then Spiritualism was of the
devil. After speaking of the manifestations which occurred
in the Wesley family, and the noises made by the Cock' Lane
Ghost, the speaker considered the theory of unconscious
muscular pressure, and showed that, as the same pressure or
force was exerted without contact, that such pressure could
not be the result of unconscious muscular action. This
theory, he said, with the supposition that the replies to ques¬
tions proceeded from unconscious cerebral action, formed
the objections made by the writer of an article on Spiri¬
tualism in the last number of the Quarterly Review. Mr-
Harper contended that the writer of that paper was deficient
in his knowledge of facts, or such hypotheses would not be
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
Nov. 15, 1871.
held ,by him for a moment. The last objection considered
•was that modem Spiritualism had revealed nothing new.
This the lecturer denied, and mentioned the following revo¬
lutionary principles which the science demonstrated—1. That
the Infinite Father has the same affection for all; 2. That the
soul is within, and not outside the domain of law; 3. That
■growth is a characteristic of the soul; 4. That all intelligence
is organic. At the close of the lecture questions were asked
by a local secularist on cerebral action and answered by Mr.
Harper. The meeting was closed with singing, Mr. Hill
playing the accompaniment on the harmonium.
192, Aston-road, Birmingham. Hy. Williams Jones,
Hon. Sec.
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Modern Spiritualism is gradually drawing attention to
a little religious sect, known as Swedenborgians, because
there is no doubt that Swedenborg was a medium and a
very good clairvoyant, also that he received much infor¬
mation as to the state of man in the next life, and put the
the said information on record. Some of the things
which he saw in the next world, and believed to be
•real, were probably symbolical teachings given to him
by the spirits, but whatever the amount of error in his
writings may be, there is no doubt that the greater
portion of his teachings is strongly supported by the
general tendency of the revelations of Spiritualism.
Swedenborg seems to have made himself the zero line
of the spiritual scale, and to have described all spirits
higher than himself as in heaven, and lower than
himself, from his point of view, as in the hells. Like
all other mediums, the revelations through him seem
to have received, as is natural, a certain amount of
unconscious colouring from his own mind, and Sweden¬
borg was the son of the Bishop of Skara. Swedenborg
was a very voluminous writer, some of his books being
also dry and tedious. An abridgment of his writings
on “Heaven and Hell" is published by the Sweden-
horgians, price ninepence (London: F. Pitman and J.
Spiers), and it is a book which every Spiritualist ought
•to read.
The following extract gives some information which
is probably reliable about life in the next world:—
EMPLOYMENTS IN HEAVEN.
“ It is impossible to enumerate or to describe in detail the
■employments of heaven, because they are innumerable, and
vary according to the distinct offices of every society; but
something may be said in general concerning them. Every
society performs a peculiar office ; for as the societies are dis¬
tinguished by the nature of the good which they possess, they
are distinguished also by the uses which they perform; since
with all in the heavens good is carried into action, and good
carried into action is use. Every one there performs some
useful purpose, for the Kingdom of the Lord is a kingdom of
usefulness.
“ All things in heaven are instituted according to Divine
Order, which is everywhere guarded by the administration of
•angels : the wiser angels taking charge of those things which
are of general good or use, and the less wise of such as relate
to particular goods or uses, and so forth. All are in subordi-
mation, as uses themselves are subordinate to Divine order ;
and hence the dignity attached to every employment is accor¬
ding to the. dignity of its use. No angel, however, arrogates
the dignity to himself, but ascribes all dignity to the use ;
• and since the use is the good which he performs, and all good
is from the Lord, therefore he ascribes all dignity to the Lord.
He, therefore, who thinks of honour as due in the first place
to himself, and in the second to the use which he performs,
•and not in the first place to the use and only subordinately to
■himself, cannot perform any office in heaven ; because he looks
backward from the Lord, by regarding himself in the first
place, and use in the second. When we speak of use, we
mean also the Lord, because, as just observed, use is good,
and good is from the Lord.
“ The nature and quality of subordination in heaven may
be inferred from these considerations, namely, that in pro-
•portion as any one loves, esteems, and honours use, he also
loves, esteems, and honours the person by whom that use is
performed ; and also that the person is loved, esteemed, and
honoured, in proportion as he does not ascribe the use to him¬
self, but to the Lord; for in that proportion he is wise, and the
uses which he performs are done from a principle of good.
Spiritual love, esteem, and honour, are nothing but the love,
esteem, and honour of use in the person of him who performs
it; and the honour of the person is derived from the use which
he performs, and not that of the use from the person. He who
looks at men in a true and spiritual point of view, regards them
in no other manner ; for he sees that one man is like another,
whether he be in great dignity or in little; that they differ,
only in wisdom, and that wisdom consists in loving usefulness,
and consequently in loving and promoting the good of our
fellow-citizen, of society, of our country, and the church. In
this also consists love to the Lord, because all good which is
the good of usefulness is derived from the Lord. Such also is
love towards the neighbour, because the neighbour is a collec¬
tive term, signifying the good qualities which are to be loved
in a fellow-citizen, in society, in our country, and in the
church, and the good deeds which also are to be done to
'them.
All the societiesin the heavens are distinguished according to
the useful offices they perform, because they are distinguished
according to their good qualities ; and those good qualities are
good actions, or charitable offices, which are useful. There are
societies whose occupations consist in taking care of infants ;
other societies whose employments are to instruct and educate
them as they grow up ; others which in like manner instruct
and educate the young who have acquired a good disposition
from education in the world, and who thence come into
heaven; others which teach the simply good from the
Christian world, and lead them into the way to heaven ;
others which perform the same office to the various Gentile
nations ; others which defend novitiate spirits, or those who
are newly arrived froru the world, from the infestations of
evil spirits ; some, also, are attendant on those who are in the
lower earth ; and some are present with those who are in hell,
to restrain them from tormenting each other beyond the pre-
Bcribed limits : there are also others who attend upon those
who are being raised from the dead. In general, angels of
■every society are sent to men, that they might guard them,
and withdraw them from evil affections and consequent evil
thoughts, and inspire them with good affections, so far as they
are willing to receive them freely. By such affections also
they rule the deeds or works of men, removing evil intentions
from them as far as possible. When angels are attendant on
man, they dwell, as it were, in his affections, and are near to
him in proportion as he is in goodness derived from truth, but
they are remote in proportion as his life is distant from good.
All these employments of the angels are functions performed by
the Lord through their instrumentality; for the angels perform
them, not of themselves, but from the Lord; and hence it is
that by angels, in the Word, in its internal sense, are not
meant angels, but an influence proceeding from the Lord ; and
for the same reason angels, in the Word, are called gods.
“These employments of angels are their general employ¬
ments, but every one has his own particular duty ; for every
general use is composed of innumerable others, which are
called mediate, ministering, and subservient uses : all and
each of which are arranged and subordinated according to
Divine Order, and, taken together, they constitute and perfect
the general use, which is the common good.
“ There are so many offices and so many administrations in
heaven, and so many employments also, that it is impossible
to enumerate them, on account of their multitude. Those in
the world are comparatively few. All angels, however numerous
.they may be, feel delight in their work and labour derived
from the love of usefulness, and none from the love of self
or gain ; nor is any one influenced by the love of gain for the
sake of his maintenance, because the necessaries of life are
given them freely ; their habitations, their clothes, and their
food. Hence it is evident that they who love themselves and
the world more than usefulness have no place in heaven; for
the love or affection of every man remains with him after his
life in the world, nor is it extirpated to eternity.
“ Every one in heaven has his work allotted to him accord¬
ing to the principle of correspondence, and that correspon¬
dence is not with the work itself, but with the use of the work.
In heaven he who has an employment or work corresponding
to his use, is in a state of life exactly like that in which he was
in the world—for what is spiritual and what is natural are
blended into one by correspondence ; but with this difference,
that he is in more inward and heartfelt delight, because he is
in spiritual life, which is inward life, and therefore enjoys
more heavenly blessedness.”
Mr, William G-odbe, from Utah, tells us that Spiritualism
there exerts an influence against polygamy.
Spiritualism in Dalston and Hackney.—Last Wed¬
nesday a few friends assembled at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
and presented Miss Florence Cook, the new medium, with a
little testimonial in the shape of a gold locket and chain.
Mr. Cook, who returned thanks on behalf of the young lady,
said that the present would always be much valued because
it represented the kind feelings of the donors; he remarked
that he was “a firm believer in ancient Spiritualism,” in a
tone which intimated that he was not altogether so sure of the
tendencies of the modern movement. In time, as her powers are
developed, Miss Cook will be a remarkable medium. Mr. Morse,
the well-known trance medium, recently gave an admirable
address, under spirit influence, to the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism.
A Practical Dream. — Mr. Coleman informs us:—
“ Some time ago Mr. Macpherson, a connoiseur lin art, re¬
siding at Borne, was impelled by a dream he had to visit a
carpenter’s shopinBome, where, at the moment of his entrance,
the man was about to plane down a square board which had
been lying about his workshop, for the purpose of converting
it into a table. Mr. Macpherson drew the carpenter’s atten¬
tion to its having paint on its surface, and suggested that it
might be turned to better account than making a table-top of
it, and with this view Mr. Macpherson purchased it for a few
scudi. It turned out to be a veritable Michael Angelo ; sub¬
ject, ‘ The Entombment,’ and. it now hangs in our National
Gallery, having been sold by Mr. Macpherson to the nation
for the sum of three thousand pounds.”
The Stone-throwing in Peckham.—The Daily Tele¬
graph, of November 2nd, said that the window-breaking at
Peckham, mentioned in our last, was done by some men and
boys; that two men and one boy were caught with stones in
their pockets, and that they were not punished because
nobody would prosecute. The South London Press, of Novem¬
ber 4th, says that the aforesaid Daily Telegraph paragraph is
“ wholly without truth from beginning to end.” Nobody has
been taken up by the police, and during the past four weeks
a few more windows have been smashed before their eyes. Mr.
John Howes, of East Surrey-grove, Peckham, who has had £20
worth of glass broken, writes to the South London Press that
the Daily Telegraph paragraph is altogether untrue, and that
he and others had, by special placards, offered a reward of
£20 for the detection of the offenders. He adds—“Not a
single man or boy has been discovered with stones in his
pocket; the police have been most energetic, and all praise is
due to them for the manner in which they took up and are
carrying out the matter, but they are as far off a solution as
the night the throwing commenced.” The Daily Telegraph
reporter did not even know the locality, for he calls the scene
of operations “ Rosemary Branch, Peckham,” whilst in reality
the place is several miles away from Rosemary Branch.
Another person who has had his windows smashed, writes to
the South London Press that it was utterly impossible that
the stones could have come over the opposite houses. More¬
over, while the bombardment was at its highest, some of the
police were standing on tops of the houses, as well as in the
streets. The efforts of Mr. Superintendent Gernon, of the P
division, to detect the culprits, have been a dead failure, and
Mr. Inspector Gedge, with all his men, was equally un¬
successful. The crowds of persons who witnessed the
smashing operations, unanimously declared that the mischief
must be done by spirits, and our reason for supposing them
to be right is that plenty of such cases are on record. Mr.
William Howitt has collected a great many such cases, and
printed them in the Spiritual Magazine. The Parisian police
have been baffled more than once by spiritual stone-throwers.
Mr. John Jones, Mr. Coleman, and others, have written
letters to the South London Press about the spiritual hypo¬
thesis, and in one of his letters Mr. Jones says:—“Connected
with the breakage of Mrs. Harding’s window was a curious
fact. The stone broke the window, passed clean over the
inner glass casement, and then suddenly stopped in mid air,
and took a vertical fall into the scales just emptied by Mrs.
Harding of some confectionery, as much as to say, ‘ Now, just
weigh me. ’ The stone was three-quarters of a pound weight.
I had it weighed. It was a large flint stone, yellow tinged,
such as one sees down in the chalk country on the roads, and
in the chalk beds; nothing of the kind about the streets of
Peckham.”
TIME.
“ In the forest, high up on the steep shore, hard by the open
sea coast, stood a very old oak tree. It was exactly three
hundred and sixty-five years old, but that long time was not
more for the tree than just as many days would be to us men.
We wake by day and sleep through the night, and then we
have our dreams: it is different with the tree, which keeps
awake through three seasons of the year, and does not get its
sleep till winter comes. Winter is its time for rest, its night
after the long day which is called spring, summer, and
autumn.
“On many a warm summer day the Ephemera, the fly that
lives but for a day, had danced around his crown—had Jived,
enjoyed, and felt happy ; and then rested for a moment in
quiet bliss the tiny creature, on one of the great fresh oak
leaves ; and then the tree always said :
“ ‘ Poor little thing ! Your whole life is but a single day!
How very short ? It’s quite melancholy! ”
“ Melancholy ! Why do you say that ? ” the Ephemera
would then always reply. “ It’s wonderfully bright, warm,
and beautiful all around me, and that makes me rejoice ! ”
“ But only one day, and then it’s all done ! ”
“ Done ! ” repeated the Ephemera. “ What’s the meaning
of done? Are you done, too ? ”
“ No ; I shall perhaps live for thousands of your days, and
my day is whole seasons long 1 It’s something so long, that
you can’t at all manage to reckon it out.”
“ No ? then I don’t understand you. You say you have
thousands of my days; but I have thousands of moments, in
which I can be merry and happy. Does all the beauty of this
world cease when you die ? ”
“ No,” replied the tree ; “ it will certainly last much longer
—far longer than I can possibly think.”
“ Well, then, we have the same time, only that we reckon
differently.”
And the Ephemera danced and floated in the air, and
rejoiced in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, and rejoiced
in the balmy breezes laden with the fragrance of meadows and
of wild roses and elder-flowers, of the garden hedges, wild
thyme, and mint, and daisies; the scent of these was all so
strong that the Ephemera was almost intoxicated. The day
was long and beautiful, full of joy and of sweet feeling, and
when the sun sank low the little fly felt very agreeably tired
of all its happiness and enjoyment. The delicate wings could
not carry it any more, and quietly and slowly it glided down
upon the soft grass blade, nodded its head as well as it could
nod, and went quietly to sleep—and was dead.
“ ‘ Poor little Ephemera! ’ said the Oak. | That was a
terribly short life 1 ’
“ And on every summer day the same dance was repeated,
the same question and answer, and the same sleep. The same
thing was repeated through whole generations of ephemera,
and all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
“ The Oak stood there awake through the spring morning,
the noon of summer, and the evening of autumn ; and its
time of rest, its night, was coming on apace. Winter was
approaching.
“ Already the storms were singing their ‘good night, good
night! ’ Here fell a leaf, and there fell a leaf.
“‘We’ll rock you, and dandle you! Go to sleep, go to
sleep ! We sing you to sleep, we shake you to sleep, but it
does you good in your old twigs, does it not ? They seem to
crack for very joy ! Sleep sweetly, sleep sweetly! It is your
three hundredth and sixty-fifth night. Properly speaking,
you’re only a stripling as yet! Sleep sweetly! The clouds strew
down snow, there will be quite a coverlet, warm and protect¬
ing, around your feet. Sweet sleep to you, and pleasant
dreams ! ’
“ And the Oak Tree stood there, denuded of all its leaves,
to sleep through the long winter, and to dream many a dream,
always about something that had happened to it, just as in
the dreams of men.”—Hans Christian Andersen.
Miss Kate Fox reached London, a fortnight ago, and
last week left with her friend, Miss Ogden, for Paris. She
only gave one or two seances in London, because she requires
rest. She will visit London again before her return to America.
Mr. Livermore, the New York banker, who witnessed such
wonderful manifestations through her mediumship, may pos¬
sibly visit England this winter.
The Royal Society.—This month the Royal Society has
to sit in judgment upon itself, in determining whether it shall
accept or reject Mr. Crookes’s record of “ Psychic Force ” ex¬
periments. If the members of the council accept the paper
they will do so in the face of popular clamour, such as a few
individuals only, like Professor Huxley, are men enough to
face; if they reject it, the act will live in history as a greater
fall than their suppression of Franklin’s first paper on lightning
conductors. The present council is very deferential to rank,
wealth, caste, and popularity, and the independent members
of the society are not altogether satisfied with the regime, as
proved by a recent fierce contest over the election of the trea¬
surer. General Sabine, the president, resigns his office
shortly.—Hans Christian Andersen.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS*
A Convert.—Your lines are in type.
A. W. T.—In our next.
This month we have received several communications, answering
the attacks on Spiritualism made by nearly all the daily and
weekly papers during the past month. We do not print any of
these letters, thinking that the space is better occupied by giving
useful information, rather than by disputing with uninformed
people who have little or no desire to gain accurate knowledge.
As a general rule, not without exceptions, we do not desire
letters or articles which take notice of newspaper abuse.
Miss Houghton has sent us a letter recommending that a general
exhibition of spirit drawings and paintings of all kinds shall be
held. Her letter has just been printed in other journals, so we
cannot keep out fresh matter to make room for it here. Those
who desire to see such an exhibition had better write to Miss
Houghton, at 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, London.
If a special exhibition would not clear expenses, it would bo in-
interesting if a large collection of such drawings were displayed
at a soiree.
M.D., Bristol.—Your letter about manifestations would carry no
weight without the publication of your name and address. May
they be added ?
The following books have been received and notices of them will
appear in pur next:—Fragments of Science for Unscientific People,
I by Dr. John Tyndall, F. B. S.; The Spintual Pilgrim, by J. M.
Peebles, late U. S. Consul at Trebizondej The Alpha, by E. N.
Dennys.
Is not the title “ The Birmingham Psychological Society” inju¬
dicious ? To some extent it conveys the idea that it is a society
formed for scientific research, whereas it performs proselytising
work, and opens its proceedings with music.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 15, 1871
FACTS FOB, NOIf-SPIEITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRIT IT A1XSM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley,
C.E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
hem carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, , the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of "Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of'- Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. , In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the; names of the following gentlemen: as
those who have long been inyestigating the sub¬
ject:-^',.'
“Oromwell P. Varley, Esq., Eleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., -Holly House, Bark¬
ing; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-sfreet,. W.C.? S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-Street,;S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
..Hb^Jf^Esq., -Tfy^Qrchirtl,:.Hjere^reen. Esher, Surrey;
•'&sbetJ.”GBambersr;,iEyrq.;:.Et->Andrew’sj-EdiribUrgh-v-H.
lepshhaT’ Psq./' Kilmofejr%qh§.e,i.' Nc!nvbbii; ■’J..'i'Gr
'si0M’’frf6fq; ,EsqC 52,'^Gjtfqcester-ctpscqtR; .NvASj,;
WilSih^bn,-‘Esq.*, -OalcflelS, Kubrim;'“Dord”Adare, _5,'
BuckiughsjmrgatepThe. Master of-Lindsay; Grosvenor--
square.”-
Mrs. Do Morgan has written a book, entitled
From ' Mdtten' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives; many interesting particulars, the result of
ten, years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
. “ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal oj
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“July 13th, 187Q.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difflcultie-< in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the . good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by 0. 0.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
Signor G.' Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred, guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi- ,
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per : testes-ri,e,, by
' witnesses of : established ..(ffi^raCfter. r, A, majorityi of
’fabte:;;havA',«*JSdbdeh estsibHslied, ''therithofe^diguur^s'
,a^et-to, ).be}opg^qj;the::partT.vaeeepting.fiiis .ChRMnge f if
the ’verdict .be that ■ these . facte- drheptfblisheiTrthethDuJ
sand guineas to bo mine. - v j f . ...
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way,11 offer, a like challenge of five hun- ;
dred guineas (tp.be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one-
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
"When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO EORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will he no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, hut no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings.' The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of .each ■ sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
■ freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
maymak their appearance.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
. Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfield-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
98, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
. Jit provides Government Security for the Life Premiihri
Fitnds . ( 'f - '
-.Allthe Prgfniutps C^dth the'e^ception^ of. ohe-flfth for'
‘Exper^es-of, Management, Reserve, arid' Bonuses) are.
invested iri .the'Nariies of Trustees, for -the sole purpose,
of-meeting Policy claiihs. These frostecn act indepen¬
dently of the Directors. ■
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus Using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up’,’.Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a. “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Stances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy,. 134, Penton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
T>EADINGS from the Poets, &c.—DR.
XV HUGH McLEOD is prepared to enter into
arrangements with public institutions', of private parties,
to give Readings, in London, driring the winter months.
Terms on application to W. Sinclair, office of this paper.
A YOUNG LADY, aged 20, a Physical
Medium, desires a Situation in or near London
as GOVERNESS. Teaches English, Arithmetic, Music,
Singing, Rudimentary French and Drawing. Disen¬
gaged at Christmas. Good References. Address,
C. M. M., 3, Comwallis-road, Holloway, N.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. XX—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debateable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World/’ 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth.
\In a few days.
Hints on the eyidences of
SPIRITUALISM. Crown 8vo. Cloth 2s. 6d.
[Nearly ready;
London: Trubner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
Now Ready. 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery)
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
A thsneeum.
“It contains more truth,poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light.
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGlAL INSTITUTE OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND IRELAND, No. II. October 1871, containing
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Rev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, &c., among the
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G.N. Price on the Quissama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut. Musters, R.N., on the Races of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Coin¬
cidences among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Trubner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pom^r;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson’; Mr. Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson;. Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, LCon Favre,-. Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home,- William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &C., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg : his
% LIFF. AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. ' Whcinin, the : IJi^tory;' j;he,..B,Qetrjries, and
'the. othdr-World'Expefieices bf the great Swede are con¬
cisely and '.faithfully set forth; * also the ’singular Origin
and- Condition of the Sw.edenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel - Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—l. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. ’ II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, ‘ aged 46. IH. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80r
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of
his comments, and the picturesque detail with which he
crowds his pages, that Mr. White at once captivates
attention, The work may be described as a long ex¬
haustive gossip about Swedenborg, his writings and his
disciples; pleasant thoughtful gossip from a mind which
impresses you as being kindly and truthful above the
common. We can with confidence assure thoughtful
readers that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s
biography than in any work of the year whose professed
object is to entertain.”—Pall Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Alien,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency.
No. 26 contains the Official Report of the Committee of
the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, the result of two
years investigation.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
The Quarterly Review on Spiritualism 209
Spiritual Powers ... ..; ...•  210
The Report of the Committee of the Dialectical
Society on Spiritualism  211
The Sensations of a Conscious Clairvoyant  212
Miss Fowler’s Mediumship    213
Mrs. Bassett’s Mediumship  213
POBTRY:—^Pictures of Memory  214
Correspondence :—The Quarterly Review on Spirit¬
ualism and the Report of the Dialectical Committee
—Warning by Dreams at Sea—The Spiritualism
Committee and Dr. Edmunds—The Report of the
Dialectical Committee   214.
Spiritualism in Birmingham 214’
Life in the Spirit World   215
Spiritualism in Dalston and Hackney  215
A Practical Dream   ... .).   215
The Stone Throwing in Peckham    215
Time ... ... ;  ... ... ... ... ...   215
The Royal Society    - ...  215
Answers to Correspondents    - 215
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published,
r by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
