lUGiSr'ELED AS A NEWSPAPfiR.]
J Ol'aiXiA !<
os< f-gYdSo^o^idS^
Ijbwriiiij rxrtttt^d^b- toiflj m §nfaiir.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule*
*jyard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :.
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 244.—(Vol. X.—No. 17.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
Spiritualism Considered as a Revivifler of the Churches... 193
The' Phenomena of Clairvoyance. By the late William
Gregory, F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edin¬
burgh University ..i ...•    -... ... . ... 194
Spiritual Influences in'the Convents of Rome. By Catherine
Woodforde  ... ... ...    ... 196
The Rev. Canon Gilbert on Spiritualism:—Mr. Eglinton
giving a Seance to Roman Catholic Priests—What is
Spiritualism?  '    Wm i„ t.i 198
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—A Prophetic
Dream in relation to Trivial Circumstances—Money
Recovered through Prophetic Dreams—Prophetic
Dreams Imperfectly Impressed—A Dream about a
Drowned Man—Mrs. Siddons—On Certain Psycho¬
logical Peculiarities Observable in the Hereditary
Transmission of Endowments and Qualities—Psycho¬
logy Proved by Molecular Motion    199
Inquirers’ Seances. By William Newton, F.R.G.S 202
The Cross of the Legion of Honour Conferred upon Mr.
Calder  ... •   ■ 202
Spirit Identity...,   ... ....    ... 202
Poetry:—The Departure   202
Correspondence:—Spiritualism and the Churches—Mrs.
Lawrence—The Phantom Dog near Malvern Link ... 202
Literary Notice:—Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism.
By D. D, Home  ...     ... 203
High Court of Justice. Queen’s Bench.—First Division.
—April 19. The Queen v. the Justices of Middlesex.
—The End of the Slade Case     204
Paragraphs:—Psychological Phenomena among the Scot¬
tish Peasantry, 195; Spiritualism in Brighton, 195;
Biixton Psychological Society, 199; Which is Best?
201; Alleged Prophecies, 201 ; Fortnightly Meetings,
203; Mr. Williams in Birmingham, 203; Dr. Davies’s
Lectures, 203; Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage   204
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for April, 1877.
Monday, 16?/;.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8 p.m.
Tuesday, 17?A.—Members’Neance, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
,, —Soiree Committee at 5.p.m.
Thursday, 19?A.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 20th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 2Wi.—Members’Seance, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Wednesday, 25?A.—Grand Musical Entertainment' at 38,
Great Russell-street. Commence at 8 p.m.
Thursday, 26?A.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 27th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, ZOth.—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
EAST END SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
THE next QUARTERLY TEA-MEETING
will be held on Sunday, May 6th. Tea on the table at
5 p.m. Tickets, Is. each. To be followed by an open meeting,
which will be addressed by normal and trance speakers.
Early application for tickets should be made to prevent dis¬
appointment. Mr. Morse has kindly offered to give a special
seance for the benefit of the East End Spiritual Institution,
which will take place on Thursday evening, May 3rd, at 8 p.m.
All friends are invited to bring as many inquirers as they can.
A collection will be made. The first Wednesday evening in
every month will in future be devoted to experiments in mes¬
merism with a view to obtaining the phenomena of clair¬
voyance more generally than at present in the spirit circle.
E. W. Wallis, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spirituali&ts
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
. . COUNCIL.
Mr'. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, ■ ' Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evehings, at 7.46 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus,
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’i the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spirituahst newspapers and magazines arc
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .‘—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names, in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for-;the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wlttgehsteln (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Oalder, President or the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, andChevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. - New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Leaden, W.O.
April, 1877,
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c.', &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
THE EIGHTH QUARTERLY CONFERENCE OF
THE LANCASHIRE COMMITTEE.^
HIS Committee will hold their Eighth
Quarterly Conference in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-
street, Manchester, on Sunday, May 6th, 1877.» Th*e morning
sitting (10.30) will be devoted to the secretary’s report and
the election of officers for the ensuing quarter. . The afternoon
(2.30) will be devoted to general speaking on “ The Pro-
pagandism of the Movement.” In the evening (6.30) Mr. John
Lamont, of Liverpool, will give an inspirational address.
Tea will be provided in the Hall.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and sednce, 5s. 6<L; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
ARJDIFF.—FREE* LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual •Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE •» described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allin, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.’
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall <fc Co.
Now ready, in 8vo., cloth bound, price 16s.
Lights and shadows of spirit¬
ualism. By D. D. Home. “Light, more light.”—
Ooethe.
London: Virtue & Co. (Limited), 26, Ivy-lane, Paternoster-
row.
M
R. J. COATES, the Mesmerist, will give a
series of seven entertainments at the Albert Hall,
Virgel-street, Scotland-road, Liverpool, commencing Monday,
the 16th inst., and every evening, at eight, and at three and
eight, Saturday, the 21st inst. These entertainments are highly
spoken of by the Press.
THREE SHARES, value £100 each, in a
private Syndicate or Company, composed mainly of
Spiritualists, FOR SALE on most .advantageous terms. The
holder is reluctantly compelled to part with them under
special circumstances. Full particulars to he obtained of X.,
care of the publisher of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O.   . 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Mrs. Beal, East-street, and Mr.
Bray, St, James’s-streeU
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays’the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
HATOHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &0.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.Ck'
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional • literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. | Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
^ 1, Castledlne-road, Anerley, S.E.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST,
April 27, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.WestBrompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbmy, Mancbestef.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 2X, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., K2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. ' „ ,
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Bogers, E. D., Kose-vllla, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin it., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.  
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A,, 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John; 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Soutbsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelpbi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, It., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghtdn, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.’
Humphreys, H. T.,3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton,
lyimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-viila, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. i
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wjison, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrsy 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq,, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,union Springs,CayugaCo.,Newyork,U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.Wi
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomeiy-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
H. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society; Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
. This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secreiai'y.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Sirs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A, Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby,
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1;—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Balidjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmiiran Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, E^sq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
M. Leymariel l, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Growell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
- -U.S.A.- ■
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., Merignac, Gironde,1 France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee,'U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. IJ.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Gne of the best hooks published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubjeet. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
, In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-.
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SociitA
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
URATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to 'he Spiritual Philosophy in the
; world! Issued weekly, at Np. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
; Mass. Colby and Rich, publi hers and proprietors. Isaac B.
; Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
| paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
; and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
i reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
! philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
I writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
j advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
' Office, 38 Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
LS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, ’clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
■R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atliugworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manases,—Mrs. A. C. Bdrkk
Mrs. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5a It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
vecemthi produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Otheb
Obsebvebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a prim'objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions wo
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of tbe task itself ? To those who are un
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-,
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 88, Giusai Russell Street, London, W.C.
VojLujviE Tejh. ' Number Seyejmteejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 27th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM CONSIDERED AS A REYIYIFIER OF
THE CHURCHES.
In another column will be found a report of the sermon
on Spiritualism delivered last Sunday morning at the Boman
Catholic Church, St. Mary’s, Moorfields, by the Bev. Canon
Gilbert. From his account it will be seen that he invited a
youthful medium to his house, put three Fathers of the
Church to hold him at a table, whilst he (Canon Gilbert)
sat a little distance off watching everything which took
place. Thus, in the first place, the reverend observers—
naturally enough from their want of knowledge—imposed
their own conditions upon the invisible intelligences present
instead of waiting for orders; they were working upon the
amusing though false assumption that the unseen powers
around them were at their beck and call, and would submit
to their control, for they did not know that they were deal¬
ing with a power which revisits the earth to comlnand, and
not to obey. When power is first drawn from a physical
medium he is almost always nervously convulsed, there are
violent contractions of his arms and legs, sometimes the
table is pushed away from him with much force, or his chair
is pushed back by the spasms in his legs or arms, then not
unfrequently his head falls backwards over his chair, and he
lies before the spectators in a dead trance. All these things
commonly enough occur before any manifestations begin.
Whether the trance occurs or not, and it is most frequently
absent, the phenomena usually begin shortly after vital
energy of some kind has, with these external indications,
been abstracted from the medium. This is in accordance
with the law of the conservation of energy, for, by that law,
if a solid object is moved in one place, force must have been
drawn from some existing source to do it, otherwise there
would have been an act of creation—a miracle.
But Canon Gilbert, who, like his friends, knew nothing
of this, made an outcry directly he saw the slightest
trembling in the arm of the medium, who truly enough said
that the motions were involuntary ; the interruption never¬
theless had the effect of stopping the incipient symptoms of
power being withdrawn from the medium, and induced in
him a desire to resist the physiological disturbances. The
reverend gentlemen watched the unfortunate youth like
hawks; if his hand twitched there was an outcry ; when the
muscles of his neck were observed to move there was another
outcry followed by a palaver; probably they dreaded lest
by twitches his medulla oblongata might drag an arm-chair
across the room. And so these observers, by their own
ignorance, imposing their own conditions upon certain
phenomena not under their control, and of which they knew
nothing, prevented any manifestations. Other conditions
than we have here mentioned have to be complied with to
get good manifestations; some of them are stated in a little
tract called Mediumship and its Varieties^ of which we have
sent Canon Gilbert a copy, and all can be learnt by the
uninformed by attending any good circle.
In London, at the present time, the ministers of the
Boman Catholic Church have some bottles of the Lourdes
water, with which cures have commonly been effected in
other countries, if not in this. We admit the fact. Canon
Gilbert and his brother clergy have doubtless unbounded
faith in the miraculous cures of the water of Lourdes. We
will tell how their claims as to the psychological influence of
this water can be tested, just as the three ecclesiastics tested
the psychological powers of Mr. Eglinton. Canon Gilbert
shall bring a bottle of the Lourdes water to the premises of
the National Association of Spiritualists, where, a sick
person shall be in attendance, or an enthusiastic member
shall volunteer in the cause of truth to be made sick by
drugs for the occasion. Canon Gilbert shall then be
firmly grasped by both wrists by two members of the
m
| i council, in order that he may not surreptitiously extract a
| ! pill or cunningly-concealed homeopathic globule from his
i|j pocket wherewith to effect the cure; while his wrists are
111 held, he shall be permitted to administer the water to the
|) patient. If his elbow shall twitch in the direction of his
| j coat-tail pocket, Dr. Wyld, who shall sit and watch behind
| j him, shall immediately raise an outcry to the two holding,
| his wrists that such motion has been observed; he shall
I j then be called upon by three or four members present
|| | to account for the same. Should he reply that he did,
If it unconsciously, or that it was of no importance, that
||j saying shall be reported in a very meaning tone at the next;
II public meeting of Spiritualists. Should he further, with
(I Jesuitical casuistry, argue that the spiritual conditions
11 were too much those of the persons who held him, and
| too little those under which the Lourdes water had
| | previously effected its cures, and that furthermore the
j I witnesses were four to one against him—a very proper
| | and reasonable reply under the circumstances—he shall,
j in the broadest spirit of fairness, be told that two daily
II i newspaper reporters shall be called in, and that they shalL
| I record what takes place, while Spiritualists shall not do so.
! 11 He shall further be told that if he does not submit to these
| | conditions, he ought never again be permitted by his Church
j j to preach at Moorfields or anywhere else. Bemembering,
III the way in which the penny papers deal with Boman Catholic.
111 miracles, and the sanctified nature of their reporters, he must
| | at once see the fairness of the proposition—the identical
111 proposition he made to Mr. Eglinton as the very quintes-
|j| sence of justice.
| I Just at the present time nothing is so much needed by
| | the churches as the phenomena of Spiritualism. Mate-
111 rialism is rampant everywhere, more especially among the
I | intellectual classes, among whom the authority of the
I i churches is either openly denied or more frequently prac-
| j tically ignored, and ecclesiastics are unable to prove that
| | they possess any authority, because they hold only the husks
| of a departed truth—the a signs which follow them that
i | believe,” and the spiritual gifts which Paul exhorted Chris-
| I tians to cultivate, being both absent and preached against.
I i The temporal power of the Pope is destroyed, and the ques-
| | tion raised whether another Pope shall ever be appointed ;
I moreover, Boman Catholics have so shifted the basis of
| i their belief to suit modern requirements that on their knees
|) every Sunday they pray in public for a heretic monarch—
| the Queen—who some centuries back would have been
| roasted by their Church. Then, again, as regards the Pro-
| testant Church, even Conservatives admit that its severance
II from the State is now only a question of time, and all churches
| alike are treated as superstitious by nearly all the schools of
II modern science. As education progresses priestly power dies
j) I out. Why is this, when man has aspirations after a higher
j i life—when it is natural to him, and is to his happiness and
III moral welfare, to believe in a life hereafter ? Because the
| j I churches give their flocks as proofs of their authority nothing
l|| but assertions, and traditionary legends riddled with the fires
m of modern criticism. They can prove no authority; the
|; | spiritual fire, the signs and wonders, once in their midst,
I | having died out as the world and temporal power came in.
j People now ask for bread, and receive the dead ashes of the
[ j j past. When, instead of hopelessly preaching to a sceptical and
II j sarcastic generation about the reality of the handwriting on
[!{j the wall at Belshazzar’s Feast, Canon Gilbert shall show in
||| his church, at Moorfields, handwriting in course of produc-
| j tion by a living spirit hand, as the result of his. patient
| I inquiry into Spiritualism and his assistance in still further
| I developing the phenomena, what a lively fluttering there will
| | be in the dovecot of the Materialists! When that day comes,
1 * I two priests will not be gripping the wrists of the unfortunate
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 27, 1877.
medium or prophet, neither will Canon Gilbert sit watching
him like a hawk, and irreverently making an outcry every
time a muscle of his neck moves : the clergy will then no
longer work upon the egotistical assumption that the invis¬
ible intelligences which produce the handwriting will do
their bidding, or pay the slightest attention to any authority
they may assume. And in that happy coming time, when
Canon Gilbert shall tell of the levitations, of the floatings in
the air of the saints of his Church, scientific scoffers may be j
dumbfounded by the rising in the air of one of the clergy, j
just as Mr. Home floated horizontally about in the drawing- |
room of Mr. S. C. Hall, and was felt all over by the Rev. j
Maurice Davies, D.D., of Kensington, while he so floated, to j
make sure that nothing was attached to him.
The phenomena of Spiritualism throw considerable light j
upon the traditions and ceremonies of the Roman Catholic j
Church, and draw the attention thereto of persons who pre- j
viously had looked upon them with the irritating contempt |
of science, and as devoid of rational foundation. For instance, j
many persons in private life in all parts of the world, quite j
independently of each other, after developing writing medium- |
ship in themselves, find spirits coming to them full of j
trouble and of sorrow, asking above all things to be “ prayed j
for; ” this tends to prove that the Catholic custom of Praying j
for the Dead had a prehistoric origin in real spiritual truth. j
Then again, the levitation of the saints fin ancient times, the j
appearance of spirit hands and other phenomena, can, in the j
light of modern spiritual manifestations, no longer be con- j
sidered by heretics as priestly fabrications. As a further j
example of the advantage of the study of practical psycho- j
logy, it may be pointed out that the absolute control which j
priests exercise over their flocks, so that the latter are in most j
cases deprived of all power of thinking for themselves, is j
explained by mesmerism. In mesmerism the power of one |
mind over another is pushed to its utmost limits, until such j
effects are produced as those we shall record next week, as j
presented at a lecture delivered at Brixton recently by Mr. j
Redman. If the voice of authority is brought to bear upon j
children with great force, and continuously, between the j
ages of seven and fourteen, they can never think for them- |
selves afterwards, and will always be the subordinates of the j
ecclesiastics by whom they were originally spiritually j
maimed; they are thus rendered as helpless spiritually as 11
they would have been in the physical world had their legs |;
been sawn off when they were young by their elders. The !!
teachings of the particular Church have nothing to do with IJ
the result, which is produced solely by the crushing of |1
young minds by the brute force of authority, while they are j!
unable to defend themselves. In Spiritualism there is j]
nothing of this kind, and the proportion of credulous people I <
to those among other denominations is small, the great h
majority of Spiritualists being critical, scientific persons, j
possessing the power to intellectually sift and to analyse; j <
consequently, when Canon Gilbert, last Sunday, again and
again uttered the refrain of “ And still they believe!” there
being nothing of that kind in Spiritualism, we felt compelled j \
to suppose that the sarcastic remark was in reality levelled j
by him at his own flock, which presented such a glorious j
example of his illustration. Their absolute obedience to him j <
must have often been a puzzle to a man of his intellect, if |
he has never witnessed the subjection of sensitives to the j
operator on the public platform of a “ biologist,” who can !
make boys eat a raw cabbage under the full conviction that j
it is an apple. Such are a few of the curious psychological j
problems presented to ecclesiastics, which may be solved by j
the practical study of Spiritualism and its phenomena. } j
Canon Gilbert we assume to mean well, and to have no j
desire to state anything but the truth to its uttermost, though j
he has been too hasty in culling one half of his sermon from |
a seance conducted without experience, by himself, and the j
other half from Asa Mahan’s book, from which he innocently |
quoted several vital statements which were inaccurate—had |
not a shadow of foundation—consequently had better have !
been ascribed to the real author than put forward as his own. j
More especially should he have been careful about preaching j
upon an important subject before he knew anything there- |
upon, when he remembers how many devout and intellectual |
sons and daughters of his Church are Spiritualists. Assuming j
then, that he is not more afraid of publishing our side of the 1 ‘
question, than we have been printing his to the length of
two columns, we asked him but to utter from his pulpit in.
his next sermon, the following paragraph, without alteration
or emendation :—
& In reference to what I said on the last occasion about alleged imposture
among professional mediums, the Editor of The Spiritualist has asked me to
tell you that there are but two or three professional mediums in the whole of
Great Britain, and that Spiritualism rests, not upon them, but upon manifes¬
tations evolved at home among private people. He recommends you to have
nothing to do with any professional medium or Spiritualist, but to form
circles in your own homes, by four or five of you sitting, with no strangers
present, in subdued light with your hands upon a table, and singing hymns,
after opening the seance with a prayer for manifestations like those once
vouchsafed to the Saints of the Catholic Church, coupled with the request that
if the supplication is evil, nothing whatever may take place. He says that
experience tends to show that one out of every three or four such circles obtains
the phenomena, consequently that many of you may thus obtain them with no
Spiritualist present, whereby the imposture theory I broached last Sunday
week is in has opinion answered.”
If Canon Gilbert is not afraid to give them this homoeo¬
pathic fragment of honest truth, it will take yards of preach¬
ing to get it out of their heads afterwards.
THE PHENOMENA OF CLAIRVOYANCE.*
BY THE LATE WILLIAM GREGORY, F.R.S.E., PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT
EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY.
The clairvoyant can often perceive objects, which are
wrapped up in paper, or enclosed in boxes or other opaque
receptacles. Thus, I have seen objects described, as to form,
colour, surface, markings, down to minute flaws and chipped
edges, when enclosed in paper, cotton, paste-board boxes,
wooden boxes, boxes of papier mache, and of metal. I have
further known letters minutely described, the address, post
marks, seal, and even the contents, read off when the letters
were enclosed in thick envelopes or boxes. No fact is better
attested than this; Major Buckley, who would seem to
possess, in an unusual degree, the power of producing in his
subjects this peculiar form of clairvoyance, has brought, I
believe, upwards of 140 persons, many of them of high
character and education, and 89 of these even in the
conscious state, to the point of reading, with almost in¬
variable accuracy, although with occasional mistakes, printed
mottoes, enclosed in boxes or in nutshells. He causes some
friends, who wish to see and test the fact, to purchase a
number of these nuts, in different shops, and to seal them
up in a bag, from whence they are taken by the clairvoyant
by chance, read, noted, and opened. It is physically im¬
possible for any of the parties concerned to know the con¬
tents of any one nut; at the utmost, a clairvoyant, who has
had much practice, may, after reading the first few words,
guess the remainder of a motto previously deciphered. But
out of a certain number, the majority, sometimes all, have
been found new, and besides, new clairvoyants constantly
succeed in this well-devised experiment.
In regard to this particular form of clairvoyance, I would
observe, first; that only a certain proportion of sleepers
possess this power, so that any one may very probably not
have it; secondly, that the same clairvoyant may succeed
at one time, and fail at another, from causes explained in
the first section ; thirdly, that it occurs more frequently in
the experience of some mesmerists than in that of others.
Major Buckley, for example, is very successful, while there
are some mesmerisers who never produce it at all, but who
call forth, perhaps, other equally wonderful phenomena.
No one, therefore, is entitled to deny the fact, because he
does not meet with it in his own cases, or in any given
case, or on any one given occasion.
There are some clairvoyants who cannot thus read or see,
unless some one be present who knows that which is to be
read and seen, therefore in these cases it is performed by
sympathetic clairvoyance, or thought-reading. I would here
add, that it would appear that some clairvoyants can thus
read at one time directly, at another only sympathetically,
and at a third, perhaps not at all. This is an additional
reason why a failure, or even a few failures, do not entitle
us to reject the fact, save as a speciality in the individual
case in which the failure occurs.
Proceeding onwards, we next find our sleeper perceiving
objects in the next room, or in that overhead, or in that
below. This is a frequent phenomenon, requiring no special
preparation, and usually brought to light by the sleeper, of
* From Gregory’s Animal Magnetism.
April 27, 1877. THE SPIBITUALTST. 195
his own accord, remarking what takes place there. It can- j j
not be referred to ordinary sympathy with the operator, for | j
the latter often does not know the room described; and ||
when he does, changes or events in it, taking place at the | {
moment, and unknown to the operator, are noticed. I have j <
myself seen it frequently. |
It often happens that when the operator knows the room !
described, he and the clairvoyant will dispute about some | <
trifling matter, in which he declares the clairvoyant to be I
wrong, just as I have explained under the head of sympathy, j
But it also frequently occurs that the clairvoyant proves to j
be right, some change having been made since the questioner !
last saw it, or even during the experiment. It is needless I
to quote cases, for this is one of the very commonest j
phenomena, and there is none which more forcibly impresses I
us with the fact that the clairvoyant really sees that which j
he describes. But again it must be borne in mind that only j
some clairvoyants exhibit this power, and that those who j
possess it do not possess it at all times, nor, when they do, ;
at all times in the same degree. j
The next step is, that the sleeper can see into another j.
house, as it were, mentally, and describe it in every part, j
just as he does in the case of the house in which he is. j
This I have often seen, and have had opportunities of I
satisfying myself that his vision, at least in some cases, is |
not determined by sympathy with the operator’s mind. j <
In the first place, his description is that of a person |]
seeing and examining, for the first time, what he describes, j
He attends to the minutest details of the objects he looks [
at, but often omits, till his attention is called to them,
objects on which the mind of the operator is dwelling at the |
time. Secondly, he observes the persons who may be in |
the room, and what they are doing, the whole of which may !
be, and often is, unknown to his questioner, but is after- j
wards ascertained to be correct. Thus, in one case which I
examined, the clairvoyant found my house, which he had j
never seen nor heard of, and the situation of which he was
not told. He first noticed the number of steps at the door j
(which I could only have guessed at) correctly; he then j
entered, described the lobby-table and the piece of furniture j
beyond it, on which coats and hats are hung; but omitted I
to notice, till I urged him to look, a pillar in the middle of |
the lobby. He then described the situation, direction, and |
shape of the stair, but stopped to scrutinise the stair-carpet j
and “ queer brass fenders ” (carpet rods) which were new to !
him, but of which I never thought for a moment; then |
entered the drawing-room, minutely and accurately described j
the furniture and ornaments, as far as time was given him |
to do so; noticed various striking peculiarities; saw at one
time, a man sitting in the room (the man-servant at the j
hour of prayers), and at a later time, only a lady, in a |
particular arm-chair, engaged in reading a new book (which |
turned out quite correct). I give this as a recent specimen !
of a fact often observed.
In another recent case, a lady, who became a clairvoyant at j
the first sitting, having been mesmerised by Mr. Lewis,
described the same house, and also saw, in another room, j
a certain lady and gentleman, quite unknown to her, as was
the house also ; the lady, in a particular dress and head¬
dress, sitting on a sofa with other persons, the gentleman |
standing at a large round table, on which he leaned his j
hand; on the little finger of the hand was a ring, and he j
was conversing with a short, dark-haired gentleman. All of |
which was correct at that moment, save that she called the |
hand on which she saw the ring the right instead of the left. |
This is a frequent, but by no means an uniform blunder of |
clairvoyants.
The next fact is, that the sleeper, at the request of the j
operator, and frequently of his own accord, visits distant j
places and countries, and describes them, as well as the |
persons in them. This may, as I have already said, be done j
in some cases by sympathy; but there are many cases in )
which ordinary sympathy will not explain it.
Thus, the clairvoyant will often see and describe accu- j
rately, as is subsequently ascertained, places, objects, and j
people, totally unknown to the operator, or to any one pre- !
sent; and he will likewise, in describing such as are known j
to the operator, notice details and changes which could not j
be known to him, *
11 The clairvoyant appears, as it were, mentally to go to the
[| place named. He often finds himself, first, in no place, but
'I floating, as it were, on air, or in space, and in a very short
11 time exclaims, |l Now, I am there.” The place named is
[| the first, as a general rule, that presents itself to him. But
■ whether it be so, or whether he sees, first, some other place,
! a certain internal feeling tells him when he is right. If it
;j be a distant town, and no house be specified to him, he will
| either see a general panoramic view of it, as from a neigh-
! bouring hill, or from a height in the air, and describe this
j as he would a map or bird’s-eye view, or he will find him-
! self in some street, place, square, or promenade, which,
j although not specified to him, is at once recognised from
! his account of it. He sees and describes the trees, roads,
| streets, houses, churches, fountains, and walks, and the
| people moving in them, and his expressions of delight and
surprise are unceasing. If sent thither, to use his almost
| invariable phrase, a second or a third time, the sleeper will
| see the same objects, but remarks the change on the living
I part of the picture.
| Psychological Phenomena among the Scottish Peasantry.—Joseph
I Dobie, of Stirling Centre, Minnesota, U.S., who formerly lived in Scot¬
land, and while a young man joined the Established Church there,
| f writes to the Banner of Light:—“ Although a church member, I was a
II believer in spirits coming back and communing with men, and no church
influence could erase it from my mind; and that was the general belief
j in Scotland in my boyhood days. But now, if you mention Spiritualism
[j to them, they will fly into a passion, call you an ‘ infidel,’ and tell you
j that it’s ‘ all a Yankee humbug,’ as they told me last summer, when on
I a visit to my native land. On the farm where I was born and raised to
) | manhood, some very mysterious things happened before the date of
: modern Spiritualism. My mother was sitting all alone one Sunday
night, after all the rest had gone to bed, and suddenly she heard a sound
like the tramp of a small troop of cavalry coming into the door-yard
from the north. She supposed it might be horses that had broken out
of the pasture lot, and thought that they could get no further, as she
had been out last and shut the gate; but to her surprise, the gate was
instantly thrown open, and they passed on. She went out to ascertain
what the matter was, but saw nothing, not even any tracks, and when
she attempted to shut the gate, she discovered that the iron hook that
fastened it was broken in two! Afterwards all were satisfied that no
horses had been there. Another time, one of my sisters was sent on an
errand in the forenoon of the day. She was barefooted, as it was in the
summer time, and in going over a thorn hedge she got a thorn in her
foot, and being only about nine years of age, she sat down and com¬
menced to cry because she could not pull it out. A voice spoke to her,
and asked what was the matter. She looked to see where the voice
came from, no one was to be seen, but the thorn had been extracted
from the foot. Many other singular incidents happened on that place
forty years ago and over.”
Spiritualism in Brighton.—Last evening, in the King’s Apartments
of the Royal Pavilion, Brighton, an inspirational oration on “ Spirit¬
ualism as a Science and as a Religion,” was given by Mr. W. J.
Colville. There was a very good attendance. The Chairman (Mr. W.
Gill) introduced the lecturer, and in doing so remarked that it was not
a subject decided upon by him, but one which had been selected for
him. The lecturer, in opening his subject, remarked that if they
found anything in the world which could be a science and a religion at
the same time, it must, undoubtedly, be acknowledged that they had
made a discovery which would be of the utmost importance to the
human race. Science and religion were two great powers, and had
always been great powers in the world; and there was, perhaps, never
a time when science was so great a power as at the present time.
Religion, too, was a great power amongst humanity, and was bound up
with science, the two proceeding from the same great source. Sucfi
was Spiritualism, which rejected none of the known sciences; there
i was nothing in Spiritualism which in any way contradicted that which
had already been brought to light. Spiritualism was a science which
upheld the mind and concerned the highest part of human nature, and,
j while it did not contradict any known truth, it revealed truth which
could not be shown in any other way. He asked them, therefore, to
j cultivate faculties which would enable them to communicate with
those spirits who were ready and willing to communicate with them
and cheer them with their presence and with their words of sympathy
j and love. Speaking of the recent persecution of mediums, he re¬
marked that it was wrong to interfere with those who were only
searching for the furtherance of the truth. In concluding, he stated
that the laws which Spiritualism imposed were purity of mind and
body, and obedience to the laws of God as revealed by Nature in
thousands of different ways. Questions relative to the subject having
been invited, a number were asked, amongst which was one inquiring
who the spirit was who had controlled the lecturer throughout the
| address. In reply, the lecturer stated that he was the spirit of George
Rush, of the United States, who passed away in the year 1857. A
j hymn having been sung, at the request of the chairman several subjects
I were submitted for the impromptu poems, the two chosen being
'] “War” and “The Last Man,” upon each of which themes the lec-
1| turer declaimed a nuinber of verses, which were greeted with applause.
II The proceedings were brought to a close shortly before eleven o’clock
'I with the benediction.—Sussex Daily News, April 19th,
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES IN THE CONVENTS OF ROME.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE. .
Mediums are sacred from the doubts, suspicions of false¬
hood and unbelief, which may assail other minds when they
are informed of miraculous powers inhering in objects which
in outward appearance are either insignificant, paltry, and
tawdry, or repulsively ugly. They do not drift out into the
broad ocean of absolute rejection of everything supernatural
wherein the mind finds no anchorage for its hopes, no haven
of calm certainty, but is reduced to the necessity of per¬
petually drifting with the winds and tides, until at length
some hidden rock of stubborn fact catches the frail vessel of
unbelief and makes it a wreck. Relying upon the infallible
spirit sense, the truly developed medium remains passively
receptive to what may be revealed by contact, or contiguity,
permitting no prejudices of the mind for or against, knowing
full well how deceptive are earthly appearances, and how
fallacious human reasoning. If there be spirit power in an
object, or place, a medium will feel its nature and describe
it. If the influence be beautiful and pure, the medium’s feel¬
ings will be those of calm or peaceful happiness, or joy;
if the contrary, the medium will be sad, restless, uneasy,
wretched. If the alleged possession of power be a false pre¬
tence, the medium will know it too.
Passing in front of the sarcophagus of Egyptian porphyry
enclosing the remains of St. Bartholomew in the church
dedicated to him, the writer, not observing that it was a
sarcophagus, for the priests have converted it into an altar,
felt herself arrested by a singular influence, which seemed to
come forth and envelope her, stilling her to quietude and
holding her spell-bound. It was a calm, placid influence,
indeed rather as if a friend held your attention with
affectionate interest, but also with a powerful command. At
once the thought came—“There must be some one buried
here, or St. Bartholomew is really in his church.” Then
fdi4 the first time, casting inquiring looks around, it was per¬
ceived that the altar was in shape like a sarcophagus of Iji
ancient days, supported by feet; and afterwards the fact was j j
ascertained that the remains of the martyred Bartholomew | I
had here found sepulture. A gentle presence, but new and j j
strange, accompanied the writer until she left the church, I |
and the conviction was forced upon her that it was Bartholo- | r
mew ; but she did not hear a word until after reaching home, | |
when the good benignant spirit addressed her, and spoke of I |
the work he was happy in doing for souls who resorted to §
himior help ; of the compassion and tenderness with which ’ j |
it was necessary to deal with beings immured in the flesh; | |
and that spirits putting aside all considerations of ignorance | |
or error in those who addressed them, sought only for the | j
pure flower of loving trust and faith, and that earnest devo- j j
tion which proceeds from it. Much could be done for souls m
who were of this type, and although spirits had not the j j
power to alter external circumstances, nor change the I j'
character of society, yet to each individual was given as : | j
much as he could receive of those dispositions, and inclina- ! j
tions essential to preserve him from lower spiritual de- | I
gradation, and in some cases to ensure progression, however j j
slow. ' ! j
This Was in answer to prayer, which formed a link be- j j
tween them and the applicant, by which they could reach the j J
soul by the permission and grace of God, whose Divine love | |
it was, flowing through them, gave them the power. Even if]
when mortals prayed direct to God, the Divine help was |(
given through attendant spirits and angels; all souls being j j
thus linked together and to God, through various gradations, jjj
He said he was the tutelary spirit over the church dedicated j j
to him, and had a large number of spirits working under him || |
for the relief of human necessities. All spirits who knew jV.l
anything about it—and strange to say there were many who j( j
did not—rejoiced at the new light from heaven descending j j
into the minds of men concerning the influence of spirits jij
over them, their constant nearness, and the possibility of j j
communication between the two worlds. They were looking j j
to see it recognised by the churches, and made a part of j j
education. That the office of a medium should be considered I j j
as holy as that of a priest, and should not be degraded to
low uses, mediums should dedicate themselves to the love j I
and services of God. Spiritualism was the hidden heart of j |
all religion, as it was of life itself, for there could be 11
no life without spirit. The Romish Church veiled it
too much, jealously reserving it for the holy in that
church alone. Other churches rejected much of it as .
Roman Catholic mummery and superstition, and in their
desire to escape the so-called errors of that Church, had fallen
into the greater error of almost suppressing the action of
spirit in their midst altogether. Spiritualism was for all
men; properly exercised and directed, it would tend to the
exaltation and uplifting of the race, and the firmer establish¬
ment of religion. Were it not for the power of spirit, and
medial receptiveness in man, the Church would never have
had its martyrs and saints; but it was the spirit working in
and upon man which has been, and is the origin of all
human greatness. So said my communicant.
The same afternoon, on visiting another church, the
writer was struck by the extraordinary sensations of spirit
influence apparently rising from the stone pavement through
her feet, and thence up the body, until she could scarcely
retain her footing. She did not know there were catacombs .
beneath, until the guide offered to show them; then the
extraordinary sensations were accounted for.
From the quietude maintained in most of the Catholic
churches, the “ dim religious light ” pervading the incense-
filled aisles where worshippers are grouped in silent prayer, from
the care taken none shall touch the holy vessels but the priests,
and from the sacred seclusion in which the Blessed Sacrament
is kept, where the -ever-abiding presence of Jesus is faith¬
fully believed in; from all these externals, and from the
general feeling pervading the atmosphere, a well-informed
Spiritualist will at once perceive that a concentration of
spirit-power is not only possible, but being invited, is most
certain to take place. Every external encouragement is
given for it, and every pains taken, perhaps unconsciously,
or by that inspiration which comes to all, to prevent the dis¬
sipation of the influence. The churches thus become highly
charged seance chambers, not perhaps for physical manifes¬
tations, but for the outpourings of a spirit whose manifesta¬
tions are silent and private. So powerful are the emanations
proceeding from some altars during the exposing of the
Sacrament, that I have been compelled to fall upon my
knees, when passing them, and have remained enchained in
a species of absorbed but conscious trance, until fatigue of
body has compelled me to rise and gradually withdraw from
the influence, reluctantly, for the feeling is one of great
holiness and sweetness. Always, when the richly-gilt and
ornamented sacred receptacle for the Host is lifted by the
priest for the adoration of the people, the writer has seen
long rays proceeding from it, and darting out amongst the
congregation, where every head is bowed in reverence; and
most undoubtedly the blessing of a holier influence goes forth
into all those lives, for a medium feels it most sensibly.
And why not? We must deny that God can help us at all,
or will answer our prayers, if we deny that He will grant His
spirit presence, and pour forth His blessings where and when
we ask. It is impossible that He should not. To pray is to
open the door to the entrance of His spirit, whether Catholic,
Protestant, Jew, or Mahommedan, all will receive of that,
spirit as they can. .
I can only speak of things as they come to my intelli¬
gence, and to my medial faculties; trying to avoid all
narrow prejudices, and viewing men and customs by the
light shed into my mind by my guardian spirits. It may be
necessary to speak of errors and abuses further on, for
human institutions are prone to grow old, when they no
longer suit the fresh, youthful spring of advancing minds,
and require to be rehabilitated, or to pass away, giving birth
to new forms, better adapted to the requirements of the age.
Nothing on earth that the writer has ever experienced
can surpass the feeling of sanctity and purity pervading the
chapels in certain convents. In the Trinita de Monti, going
in for the evening benediction, one of the most beautiful
services of the Catholic Church, you may see the young girls
confided to the nuns for education enter the church in pro¬
cession, on the other side of the grating which divides them
and the altar at which the priests officiate, from the public.
They are draped in long gossamer veils of white thrown over
their usual school dress, and entering with well-tutored
bearing of gentle dignity they separate into couples before
the altar, where they make a little graceful salutation, and,
196
fllE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 27, 1877.
197
April 27. 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
turning, take their places in the benches assigned to them.
The nuns, from some invisible choir overhead, sing the
Latin hymns,* the incense rises in clouds before the altar,
where several priests are officiating, and a more grateful
incense of prayer rises from the many hearts of the rapt
kneelers. What atmosphere more favourable to spiritual
presences and influences of the highest kind than this, kept
undisturbed and undefiled from the outer world, and purified
by incense, which it is well known is powerful to dispel
low or evil influences—to say nothing of that constantly
uplifted voice of prayer; that cry of the spirit from earth
to the spirit in heaven; that demand which ever meets its
response. This atmosphere through which the aspirations
of the pure and innocent souls here assembled each day go
up bringing down saintly presences, and the Divine spirit, :
potent to touch each heart in some way or other, is cleansed
by the constant transmission of holy spiritual influences,
and becomes charged with astral fluid, as sensibly felt by
the medium as that of any seance room; and indeed may
we not call these the most holy seances, held for the filling
of souls with the manifestations of that Spirit who on earth
said : “Behold, I am with you always !” Again the vision
of angelic children salutes the clairvoyante eyes. With
looks of gladness they, this time, precede and follow a
stately being clad in pontifical robes, who comes forward in
spirit form uttering words of blessing, and presents his ring
to you to be kissed, whilst he gives the name of Fenelon—
a gracious remembrance of an old medium friend in a
foreign land. Your little spiritual by-play of kissing the
holy bishop’s ring, the loving words uttered, and the
beauteous scene of the angels takes place whilst you are as
still as a statue in outward seeming, and no one but your¬
self is conscious of it; but it is a reality, for the spirit can
project itself from the body, and salute spirit-friends, and
converse with them without the rest of the world knowing
anything of it.
In the still more secluded convent chapel of the Blue
Nuns, as they are called from the colour of the very pretty,
picturesque habit they wear, the sense of spiritual presences
is overpowering. Candles are kept constantly burning upon
the altar, and throughout the day, at whatever hour you
enter the chapel, one or two of the blue-robed nuns, covered
to the feet with white veils, can be seen kneeling before the
altar in prayer. It is said the Blessed Sacrament is here
exposed, and prayers are perpetually being offered up before
it, One or two of the nuns are always present, coming at
stated times to take each other’s places, and remaining
absorbed in motionless prayer until relieved by the entrance
of others, when in total silence they rise and go out. Their
bearing is marked by the most respectful dignity and
solemnity, and the quiet stillness is disturbed only by the
soft rustling of their garments: holiness is in the air, and
holiness in their looks. If any of them are mediums, here
would be the most favourable spot for heavenly visions and
ecstatic trances. When the church services are to be per¬
formed, the sisters enter in solemn procession, and place
themselves in their seats; a grating separates them from
the rest of the congregation. The choir is stationed some¬
where above the altar, out of sight, and some of the gentle
nuns still retain sweetness of voice.* You may fancy it a
choir of angelic spirits chanting the litany of the Blessed
Virgin, up where the clouds of incense rise to form a
resting-place for their etherial feet: the whole earthly
scene vanishes—you behold only clouds and angels, but
you on the earth seem a part of that scene, and it feels
quite natural when the Virgin Mother herself, accompanied
by a smiling spirit in the dress of the Blue Nuns, walks
down the. aisle, and out to you* and, with gentle words of
blessing and love, covers you all over with her spirit-robes,
like a celestial aura, as a sign of protection and holy influence,
whilst with bowed head you listen to the sweet whispers
breathed into your spirit-hearing—“ You are welcome here,
dear child 1 Mary loves you 1 You see now that I answer
prayers addressed to me; that I come with spiritual gifts
* “The impression is very singular; moreover, it is well-known that no one is permitted
to see the fair singers, so this caused me to form a strange resolution. I have composed
something to suit their voices, which I have observed very minutely, and I mean to send it
to them. It will be pleasant to hear my chant performed by persons I never saw, especially
as they must in turn sing it to the ‘ barbaro Tedescbo,’ whom they also never behold,”—
Mendelssohn’s Letters!
!| and blessings, with other loving ones, to shed heavenly
influences here and elsewhere, for to my spirit distance is
nothing. The love offered up to me draws me powerfully to
earth, and I am much here, working for Jesus. So also are
thousands who love Him: many have died for Him. God works
by intermediates, through ministering spirits, thereby blessing
us tenfold by permitting us to convey to you these sweet an¬
swers to prayer. Dear women on earth do good to the poor; why
should not we from the spirit-world ? Call not those loving
prayers offered to me idolatrous ; it is a loving service
offered as by one friend to another, and love is ever requited. '
I am a free spirit, to go where it pleases me. It is not
contrary to the laws of Heaven that I should respond to and
requite as far as circumstances render possible the love
offered to me. An invocation brings the presence of the
spirit invoked, and can Mary resist the cry of the suffering
and loving here below ? No ; on the wings of love I come,
and, excusing the errors of ignorance, give peace, happiness,
comfort, and strength of spirit to do well for Jesus’ sake.
You, as a Spiritualist, know that what I tell you is true.
At your seances spirit power is concentrated, so that many
wonderful things are accomplished ; so in the churches may
spirit power be concentrated, and the spirits fervently
solicited by Roman Catholics are wont to gather in strength
in the churches (as your open vision has revealed to you), or
by the bed-sides of the sick and dying; and, ofttimes,
aided by the faith and prayers of those gathered around,
perform acts of wondrous healing. Bear these my words
in mind, you who have experienced the blessings and joys
of open communion with spirits, and try to see the merciful
dealings of God with man throughout all time.”
If the foundation be laid, or the vessel prepared for high
spiritual influences, they will surely descend and fill the
| lives of mortals. The intention in life is the main thing:
| let the intention be good, and the life will spring from that
| in as fair beauty as it can attain. A life of self-abnegation
| from the pure, simple love of God, and the desire to reach'
| thereby the angelic, or heavenly state, will inevitably bring
! its fair results of innocence and purity. Around such lives
I angels must gather, making that beautiful atmosphere of
| peace, love, and gentle sweetness which all must feel more
| or less, even the most hardened in selfishness—the most
] sunk in that stupidity to higher feelings which besets the
I monster of egotism. According to the life, such is the soul-
| aura surrounding the individual, penetrating to the spiritual
| sense of others and attracting them with love, or repelling
| them with dislike. If the soul exhale its life in acts of
love, mercy, gentleness, and sweetness, returning good for
evil and avoiding all emotions of harshness or. anger, or
uncharitableness, or deceit or falsehood, or unworthy pride,
the aura surrounding it will be laden with sweetest fasci¬
nations; will positively, indeed, reach the senses of spirits,
or highly-developed mediums, as a palpable fragrance. This
has been frequently experienced by the writer. The private
room, boudoir, or bed-chamber of a woman of this type
(even the sterner sex may not be without those beautiful
characteristics), constantly filled with the subtle aura, be¬
comes redolent of fragrance to spiritual senses, and fascinates
by its calm, its gentle joy, its sweet peace. Such sweet
exhalations the highest spirits bring with them, making
you long to be wrapt in them for ever: such delicious soul-
emanations have lovers for each other, for the spirit, rising,
| in the exaltation of love above the flesh, senses that which
I others cannot perceive, and laps itself in an elysium: the
! two spirits bathe themselves in each other’s aura, and are
| mingled in an eternal amalgamation of soul long before
| union is consummated externally.
If one life can give forth, like a fragrant flower, so much
] sweetness into the lives of others, doing also a certain amount
| of good, how much more powerful for good must be a com-
i munity of such lives gathered together in the harmony of one
| common purpose, how much stronger the spiritual emana-
| tions. It is questionable whether (although in the case of
I convents the mistake is the isolation of such lives) the sur-
| rounding world would be as good and as happy without them;
! They form a nucleus of prayer, a centre into which pour high
| and purifying spiritual influences, and this cannot take place
I without good being done to other souls too. It is like a
P fountain of water springing up in an arid waste, or a broad
198
THE SPifttTtJALli§1\
Apjul '27, 187?.'
dusty street; the passer-by, absorbed in self and worldly in¬
terests, may take no note, but the air is freshened and puri¬
fied ; and at length the weary wayfarer may arriye who
finds the fountain to be the source of refreshment and new
life, and haying received what he wanted, he goes on rejoic¬
ing because of the fountain.
Reversely, an evil life gives forth poison into the lives of
others, and so painfully powerful are the spiritual exhalations,
that a refined medium becomes oppressed, saddened, and
even suffers bodily torture in the noxious presence, to the
extent of deadly sickness and vomiting. It is not necessary
to know the person, or even to look in the face, the aura is
sufficient; from that flows upon the opened spiritual senses
of the medium a knowledge of the life; of its sensual gross¬
ness, of its selfishness, of its duplicity and falsehood, of its
baleful, blighting power of hatred and anger. How often in
theatres, or at concerts, or in lecture-rooms, an individual, a
stranger, takes his or her place next to you. If unfortunately
it be one deformed in soul from indulgence in evil passions,
however much, or however little, the truth-telling aura will
soon impart it to your loathing senses. Y ou shrink from the
knowledge, and forcibly shut it out, praying spirit friends to
cut off the malarious influence from you; but you may be
thankful if you leave the side of that individual with no
ill effects.
those dens of wickedness which it is supposed the human
race cannot do without; how baleful the exhalations pro¬
ceeding from the myriad public-houses thronging the streets
of cities, through which, hell itself may pour forth its deadly
soul-venom, stupefying the spirit unto death. The concen¬
trations of spiritual pestilence become centres of poison,
constantly permeating the air to the infecting of souls. In
contrast, communities gathered together for the purpose
of leading lives as nearly approaching to heavenly perfection
as they are capable of conceiving, are like spiritual paradises,
wherein the angels gather a thousand heavenly graces,
which go forth to the surrounding world as subtle purifying
zephyrs from a garden, to stay the effects of moral disease,
to cleanse and clear away spiritual infection, and to restore
heavenly health and life to many who have fallen victims to
the spoiler.
Borne, April llth, 1877.
THE REV. CANON GILBERT ON SPIRITUALISM.
MR. EGLINTON GIVING A SEANCE TO ROMAN CATHOLIC PRIESTS.
Last Sunday the Very Reverend Canon Gilbert, D.D., preached at
the Roman Catholic Church, St. Mary’s, Moorfields, London, on
“Spiritualism: its Manifestations and its Scientific and Religious
Aspects.” The church is close to the Broad-street and Liverpool-
street railway stations, is one of the largest and richest Roman Catholic
places of worship in London, and on the occasion now under notice it
was quite filled with listeners.
Canon Gilbert said:—
“ And Pharaoh called in the magicians and the wise men, and they,
by Egyptian enchantments and certain secrets, did the like”—that is to
say, they changed the rods into serpents, and the rivers into blood, as
stated in the eleventh chapter of Exodus. What is Spiritualism?
Spiritualists are divided among themselves as to the cause of the
phenomena in which they believe, and according to the theory they
hold as to the cause of the phenomena, so will he the answer to the
question I have put. The majority hold that, as we by electricity can
communicate with persons in New York and other parts of the world,
-eg there is a force in nature by means of which persons in certain
mental conditions can communicate with disembodied spirits in the
other world; and they believe that these spirits ring bells, play musical
instruments, move chairs and tables, walk about the room, and some¬
times dematerialise their mediums and pass them through closed doors,
as well as produce many other startling phenomena: this may be called
the “ disembodied spirits ” or “ ghost ” theory. The second theory is
held by some of the cleverest Spiritualists, who deny the intervention of
disembodied spirits. They say that there is an odylic force, and that
persons in certain abnormal conditions of mind are able to bring
this force into activity, and thereby to produce the phenomena. Reichen-
bach, Mahan, and others hold this view; they think that it is owing to
odylic force that voices are sometimes heard around sick people lying in j
bed, and that by it articles of furniture are sometimes moved. The I
third theory is that held by Mr, William Crookes, Dr. Carter Blake,
and Mr. Seijeant Cox. These have adopted the theory of what is called
psychic force; they say that as by means of our will our souls can act
upon our bodies, so certain persons in abnormal conditions can act upon
solid matter outside the body and produce the phenomena. Mr. Serjeant.
Cox says that there is no proof whatever of the presence of the spirits
of the dead. Why, then, are those I have named called Spiritualists ?
| Because they think that the soul produces the activity in this force;
j this is why they call themselves Spiritualists. The force is only
( produced in the presence of certain persons called mediums. I now
come to the fourth theory. High and good persons and ecclesiastics
| believe that they are produced by diabolical spirits, determined upon
( men’s utter ruin; therefore the importance of Spiritualism, as it regards
Christianity, I think it impossible to over-estimate. If, however, it
i can be shown that the manifestations are produced by ordinary dis-
| I embodied spirits, then they give us a telling argument against all
infidels, and are great facts in proof of the immortality of the soul. If
m it be true that it is psychic force, some of the phenomena which took
||| place in the lives ®f the saints will have to be reconsidered in a new
] i light. If it be proved that the phenomena have no real existence, but
| | are rather the result of impressions produced upon weak minds when
! | acted upon by tricksters and conjurors, it becomes the duty of every
I) Christian to pull to pieces the imposition. To examine these propositions
| ( under their four different heads, I shall give four discourses on four
| alternate Sundays. To-day I will give you some of my own experi-
i | ences, and afterwards those of others.
| When these lectures were announced several Spiritualists at once put
11 themselves in communication with me, and among them was a lecturer
| at one of the London hospitals, a believer in psychic force. He told me
j that the best medium I could get was Mr. W. Eglinton, of Walthamstow,
I who frequently produced manifestations on the premises of the National
| | Association of Spiritualists. Another he advised me to try, but said he
I | would, if he could, play tricks. So last Monday week, at eleven o’clock,
| j Mr. Eglinton came to our house. I questioned him as to his theory of
| ! the phenomena; he said that he did not believe in psychic force, but
| j that they were produced by disembodied spirits. I asked him what he
| i desired to be done, and he wished to know whether we required a light
■j or dark seance, as he wanted to do what we pleased. I asked for a light
J one, and the three reverend gentlemen who are sitting near the altar
i this morning, took their places round a table with him, holding both his
hands, whilst I sat at a little distance looking on. They had not been
long seated, when I remarked that Mr. Eglinton was trying to push
j the table with his left arm. He said that this motion was entirely un-
I conscious on his part, but he could not deny that the movement was
there. Later on I pointed out motions in his right hand, and the two
i 11 clergymen who were holding his hands felt the motions, but he said that
| | they were produced quite unconsciously. I next pointed out that he
j i was beginning to move his legs, but he said that he was quite unconscious
| | of having done so. Again we went on, but he saw that he was watched
II very closely. He drew a long breath, and I noticed that that had a
j tendency to move his arms, and they to move the table, but he said that
! | the drawing of the breath was involuntary. Then the muscles of his
j leg moved, but he said that he was quite unconscious that they had
i ( done so.
| [At this point there was much giggling and tittering all over the
j Church, which state of liveliness continued until the end of the sermon.]
i! We sat for three-quarters of an hour, and then he said that the spirits
| were a longtime coming, hut we replied that we were so anxious to see
| them that we were willing to wait all day; he, however, remarked—
j “ We will break up at twelve o’clock.” It was most painful to see his
| motions.
11 I must remark that if there had been other persons present more
11 nervous, I am sure that that table would have moved, and that there
|> would have been raps, and sounds, and divers manifestations. I
| asked him if the spirits would play on two musical instruments
I in the corner of the room. He sat looking at these instruments
for a quarter of an hour fixedly, but they did not play, and the
i| spirits did not come. I next said to him, “I have heard that
II you can write on a slate without contact with it.” He replied, “I
! have that power.” I said, “I have here a slate covered with brown
| | paper, and so anxious have I been to be convinced that I have not even
| | shown it to my brother clergymen. I will put this slate under my arm.”
j|i I held it there for a quarter of an hour, but no writing came. Next I
I) said to him, “I have heard of solid objects moving in your presence;
i I there are two light objects on the mantelpiece, consisting of tape and
j i cotton, will they move without touching them ?” He tried for a quarter
in of an hour, and then said, ”I think we had better give up.” I
i | said, “ Not yet. I have heard that you can produce a double
j | self and spirit-hands.” He said that that was usually done
in partial darkness, so the blinds were lowered, and he went
into the darkest corner of the room, and the clergymen held his hands
on either side. I need not add that there were no spirit-hands
and no double self. I then said, “ There is another test. It is stated
that solid objects sometimes move when you touch them. Here is a
perfectly flat half-hundred weight; will you put your fingers on the top,
and if it moves I will believe in you.” He did so, and nothing came. .
This sitting lasted for two hours, and we would have given him six if
necessary. You will agree with me that it was a miserable failure. I
then said, “I will pay you the money.” He declined, but I said, “ I
insist upon it, but I will not pay you how, I will send you a cheque.”
I told him that we were not at all satisfied with the seance. He then
said, wisely or unwisely—you must form your own opinion as to that—
“ I have power to make raps with the joints of my toes.” He tried but
failed, saying that the weather was too cold. I afterwards wrote to him
and sent him a cheque for .£2 2s. I said in my note that the effect of
the stance was very bad upon us, and that we could not believe that what
we read about his manifestations at the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists were anything but delusions. He wrote back thanking me for my
cheque, but positively declined to give me any more seances, because he
said that the conditions of the first seance were too much ours. I then
proposed to pay him £2 2s. each for stances under his own conditions, ,
and in the darkest room we could make in our house. He declined,
saying that four to one would be there to report against him. I then
gaid that I would pay two reporters from the public papers to report
Apkil 2?. 187?. TfiE SPIRITUALIST. 19^
what took place, and that the clergy should not report, but I have
received no reply. Now, I leave it for you to judge whether my offer is
not a fair one, and whether all Spiritualists should not bring their influ¬
ence to bear on him to accept my proposition, and in the event of his
then refusing to do so, that he should be allowed to give no more seances
on the premises of the National Association of Spiritualists.
The substance of the remainder of Canon Gilbert’s sermon, which we
are obliged to abbreviate, was that Mr. D. D. Home had long been
regarded as one of the chief mediums connected with Spiritualism; but
that whenever he gave sittings under conditions which did not allow of
trickery they were found to be imposture, and that Sir David Brewster,
the St. Petersburg Committee, and old Mrs. Lyon—from whom he had
obtained £30,000—had proved this to be the case. When musical
instruments flew about at the stances of the Davenports after they had
been slyly painted by one of the observers, paint was found upon the
lips of the mediums when the light was struck, yet Spiritualists still
believed in them. In New York, when a light was struck, they were
seen holding the instruments themselves, yet they were still believed in,
so prejudiced were the Spiritualists. In London there was a Katie
King, who lived about 200 years ago, who did not talk in the style of
that time, but in the phraseology of the nineteenth century, yet the
Spiritualists believed in her. She afterwards went to America, and
became attached to a Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, and one night outside the
house where they were giving a seance a man was keeping watch, and
seized another man whom he found about to enter the house with a
gutta percha tube over his arm. He then found that it was a woman in
a man’s clothes, and although she fought hard and broke the tube over
his back, she was secured, and confessed herself to be Katie King; yet
now Spiritualists believe in Katie King, and it has been the same with
all the mediums down to Dr. Slade, Mr. Monck, Mr. Lawrence, and
other impostors. Again, all the phenomena that had been produced by
Spiritualists had been shown by legerdemain at the Polytechnic and at
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s. Of the performances of the latter, Mr.
Joy once wrote to The Spiritualist newspaper—“ If this be trickery, then
‘ Othello’s occupation’s gone’ ” An experienced Spiritualist—Mr.
Benjamin Coleman—also wrote to The Spiritualist—“ They are not only
clever adepts in legerdemain, but are also powerful mediums.’’ So when
Spiritualists would not believe that Maskelyne and Cooke were con¬
jurers, it became evident how hard it was to deal with such people so as
to drag away any false notions they might have in their minds. Was
Spiritualism an imposture which had too long cheated the public, and
ought to be rooted out ? Nothing of the kind. He had said very little
that morning, but dealt only with one aspect of the subject, from which
they might reasonably draw the following conclusion—“If it is certain
that all the phenomena reported by Spiritualists can be done by legerde¬
main, we ought to believe none save those which take place where no
trickery is possible.” They would, secondly, agree that medium after
medium had been detected in imposture of the grossest kind. Some
Spiritualists had told him that the phenomena had been well tested by
men of science. He intended to consider and pass judgment upon the
value of this assertion. They had also said to him that he must
remember that the Egyptian musicians did all that Moses had done.
But it was not by the agency of God, and they did not do all that Moses
did, for although they turned rivers into blood they could not turn them
back again. He would again impress upon them that if the phenomena
of Spiritualism could also be produced by legerdemain, they could not be
too cautious nor too sceptical; he was quite sure that if he and a few of
the clergy were to give a seance, rapsjand other manifestations could be
artificially produced, whereby they could send away the congregation
fully believing that they had had a real seance. Thus, testimony as to
the value of the reality of the phenomena was only valuable when
given by people who knew how to criticise, to sift, and to analyse.
Mas. Emma Hardinge-Britten has since appended her name to the
circular of the Theosophical Society published in the last number of
The Spiritualist.
Next Thursday, at 8.15 p.m., Mr. John Rouse will give some
“ Original Readings in Rhyme on Popular Subjects,” obtained through
his own mediumship, at the rooms of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Brixton Psychological Society.—The annual general meeting of
this society was held on Wednesday, April 18th, at 6, Loughborough-
road. North Brixton, Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, president, in the
chair. The president remarked that if the tenets held by Spiritualists
were not based upon fact, they (the Spiritualists) were worthy of
severe reprobation; but if their main conclusions were true, it was
indeed, and would hereafter be, recognised as a great honour to have
belonged to their ranks. Again, if the phenomena were true, it was
an obligation to one’s own conscience and to humanity to forward in
every way the recognition of such important truths. He felt convinced
that the members of the society were resolved, not only that it should
continue in existence, but that it should take its fair share in the work
to be done. At some future period, which might be not very distant,
the raison d'etre of the society might be fully recognised, and its
sphere of action greatly extended. In the absence of Mr. E. P. Ashton,
one of the auditors of the society, Mr. H. Withall was requested, and
kindly consented, to audit, in conjunction with Mr. Tapp, the accounts.
A balance of £1 8s. ll|d. was announced. It was proposed by Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and seconded by Miss Withall, that Mr. T. H.
Edraands be invited to become a vice-president of the society. This
was carried unanimously. Mr. Withall proposed a vote of thanks to
the officers of the society, and especially to the president, for the service
rendered to the society through their being enabled to meet at their
present rooms. The proceedings then closed,—Emily G. Fitz-Gerald,
Mon. Assist. Sec. \
| THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
(i Ox Thursday evening, last week, at a meeting of the Psychological
>| Society held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, Mr.
<1 Serjeant Cox presided. Among the members present were Mr.
{\ Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I.; Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary
) i secretary ; Mrs. Speer ; Miss Allen ; Lord Borthwick ; Mrs. Tennyson
(j Ker, Mrs. Burton-Burton; Major S. R. I. Owen, F.L.S.; Mrs. and
jl Miss Jacquet; the Misses Corner ; Dr. George Wyld; Mr. Crookes,
jun.; Mr. A. Vacher; Mr. C. C. [Massey; the Rev. W. Stainton-
<j Moses, M.A. Mr. George Harris, F.S.A. ; Mr. W. H. Coffin; Mr.
j Gordon; Lady Colquhoun; Mr. J. H. Gledstanes; Mr. J. N. T.
) Martheze ; Mr. F. Percival; and Professor C. J. Plumptre.
\ Professor Barrett was elected an honorary member of the society;
) after which the minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
) The Rev. W. S. Moses then read the following records of psycho-
\ logical phenomena, which he said had been furnished to him by friends,
) and were thoroughly well authenticated :—
)! A PROPHETIC DREAM IN RELATION TO TRIVIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
j Some ten years ago I was preparing to pay a visit to a friend in .
| Cambridgeshire. I had never been in that county, and my friend was
) i a new resident there. But I knew that when with her I should be only ,
I an hour’s journey by train from H , where there still lived an old ,
| gentleman whose house had always been open to my father when he
| had been at the University; and my father proposed that, if possible,
! I should go over and call on his old friend. At this time my maid was
) | trimming a white dress of mine with black lace, and I had given orders
< I one evening that the lace was to be put on in a straight band. When
j she called me the next morning she awoke me suddenly from a dream ;
j j and I lay for a few moments thinking of the dream, which would have
(| faded from my memory had not a feminine weakness impressed it on
| me. All I remembered of it was, however, only what I was dreaming
) | at the very moment I was awaked; which was, that I was in a strange
(j room, wainscoted three feet high, and that I was standing near a
j dressing-table, with my white dress on with the black lace on it, not in
)! straight bands, but in festoons; and, trailing over my dress, one end of
(j it in my hand, was a long, broad, old-fashioned worsted-work bell-rope.
\ I A maid came into the room, and, turning round to her, I said—“ Look
| at your bell-rope; I have pulled it down in ringing for you.” In the
(i course of the morning following my dream I told my maid that I had
|! changed my mind about the black lace, and that she was to put it on in
m festoons, as I had seen it in my dream; which accordingly she did.
j { I went into Cambridgeshire, and in course of a few weeks I went over
|)| to H , and called on my father’s friend. He was not at home, so I
! ! left my card and address. He came to see me, and invited me to pay
| j him a few days’ visit, which I did. While dressing for dinner the first
|) | day I arrived at his house I rang the bell for the maid; in pulling the
j) i bell the rope came off from the top. Still my dream did not recur to
| \ i me. With the long, broad worsted-work in my hand, I returned to the
|); dressing-table; and, as the maid entered the room, I turned my head
! | round to her, and saw the bell-rope trailing over my dress, with its
|\| festooned trimmings. I looked at her and said—“Look at your bell-
i)! rope;’’ and then my dream jiashed on my memory. I should have said
i j then, as I have often said of other such flashes of a sense that events
| \ | have occurred before—“ Oh, it is a case of unconscious cerebration; I
j have not really dreamed it.” But in this instance the trimming of my
i i dress had been altered in consequence of the dream.
jji MONEY RECOVERED THROUGH PROPHETIC DREAMS.
| | About the year 1830 there was living near Windsor a retired Waterloo
|) j officer, Colonel Y , with his wife and three daughters. He one day
i( received a letter from his family lawyer requesting the loan of £300.
j j i The lawyer assured the Colonel that the money would be returned in a
| I very few days; that it was required to meet a mere temporary demand,
j (i which, though a large one, was only a transfer of funds; that he would
| i give security if the Colonel wished it, but that it really was needless,
j (| only it was absolutely necessary that the money should be in his hands
Hi on the following day. The Colonel was not a rich man; he could ill
I afford to lose £300; nevertheless, being on friendly terms with his
|| lawyer, he decided on complying with his request, and he sent the
| cheque for £300 by post that evening. His wife and daughters knew of
| the transaction, and made no objection to it. But that very night the
second daughter, Emma, awoke from her sleep, disturbed by a vivid
dream that the lawyer had levanted with the loan, leaving his affairs in
j complication, and having defrauded several of his clients. Much
disturbed by the powerful impression of the dream, Emma awoke her
elder sister, sleeping in the same room, and told her the dream, and her
own disturbance thereat. The elder sister talked the matter over, but
concluded by advising Emma to go to sleep, for “ it was only a dream”;
j) | and the lawyer was such a respectable man, that it was absurd to think
j i of his being guilty of fraud. Emma at last fell asleep again, but only
! j to awake again with a repetition of the dream. This time she got up,
| | went to her parents’ room, and told her father of the dream and of her
j | own impression of the truth of it. He, however, thought nothing of it,
! j and bade her go to sleep. A third time did she sleep, and a third time
|) | did she in dream receive the reiterated assurance that her father would
! | lose the money. She went a second time to her father, whom she now
\{\ inspired with some anxiety, so much so that he at once arose, awoke the
!)| household, and ordered the carriage with post horses to be ready by six
j (| o’clock in the morning. He wished to arrive at the lawyer’s private
j j house (to which the lawyer had requested the Colonel to direct his
jo letter), before the lawyer should receive the letter, and then he
I | purposed telling him that he had altered his mind. The Colonel
jji and his daughter Emma posted up to London, arrived at the
j/j lawyer’s house, asked if he were at home, and were told he was, but
j (j was not yet downstairs. The servant showed the early callers into the
Ui dining-room, where, on the breakfast table, the Colonel saw his own
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 27, 1877.
letter. He at once secured it, and put it into his pocket before the
lawyer came down. When he appeared, the Colonel made excuses for
his early appearance, adding that he came to make his own apologies !
and regrets for not acceding to the lawyer’s request, but he could not ||
lend him any money. . ^ jj
Three days afterwards the Colonel at Windsor received news that the j<
lawyer had escaped abroad, his frauds and embezzlement having been j!
discovered. Emma’s dreams had been perfectly correct. j<
PROPHETIC DREAMS IMPERFECTLY IMPRESSED. jj
The following dreams were not precise presentations of subsequent |
events: in some respects they are more wonderful, as there seems to : I
have been an effort made, but in vain, to represent the coming events, j
AH that was accomplished was the misrepresentation of a very extra- | (
ordinary occurrence, and yet so peculiar were the circumstances, that j>
one cannot fail to see something more than a chance coincidence in the u
matter of the policeman and the rings, and something more than idle i (
fancy in my maid’s waking impression.—G-. T. C. M. j j
In 187—some of our most intimate neighbours were Mr. B. and his j<
only son George. Mr. B. was a widower, and George was the hope and ] <
ambition of his life. The young man was a barrister on the  ]!
Circuit, but at the time when the dream and its tragic explanation j(
occurred he was at home, and had a small boat for sailing on the !(
estuary near which he lived. His father had given to George on his jj
coming of age some valuable rings of his mother’s, and George used to j/
wear some of these all day long, however rough might be his occupation, i (
More than once, when out sailing with him, I had induced him to take ! j
off these rings while he was pulling oars and tackling ropes, &c. Mr. j j
B. was a county magistrate, and consequently George was known to all ij
the police in the neighbourhood, and he knew some of the police jj
serjeants by sight and byname. One Saturday morning, before going j(
down to the breakfast-room, he went into his father’s bedroom to jj
narrate a dream he had had, and which was so vivid, and had made jj
such an impression, that he thought it best to tell it at once, in case it j (
should prove prophetic. I dreamed, said he, that I was walking up jj
Fyle Hill—two miles from here—and that I was stopped by police j
serjeant Turton with a stranger. Turton asked me to give him up the jj
rings I had on my hand, which I refused to do, of course. He persisted j
in threatening to use force to compel me to give them up ; but though ij
he had a friend, and I had not, yet he did not touch me. He then said, i(
“ Well, Mr. George B., as you won’t give me the rings, you must give jj
me a cheque on Martin’s Bank in the town. Somehow I did yield to jj
that demand, and gave him the cheque; but having done so j)
I instantly returned, got to the Bank before Turton did, and jj
told the clerks not to cash it, as it had been obtained from me under j j
compulsion.” This was the dream. It was never exactly fulfilled, but jj
its partial solution was received next day, Sunday, for at mid-day on jj
Saturday George B. went out alone, for a few hours’ sail on the j
estuary, assuring his father he should be home to dinner. A violent j
gale set in suddenly, a gale which did much harm all along the south j
coast, and it must have capsized the boat, for the young man did not ij
return home; and on Sunday morning a report reached Mr. B. that a jj
boat, like his son’s, had been found driven on shore on the coast beyond j
Fyle Hill, in the beat of Sergeant Turton’s duty. The poor father, j
with his old servant who had been nurse to George, drove at once to j j
the place, saw the boat with its remains of tattered sail, but there was jj
no trace of his son. At last, after some hours, the body was found j
washed up on the shore further away. It was carried into a little jj
public-house, where Mr. B. had it taken, Turton, the policeman, jj
assisting. There was nothing further to be done, and the unhappy ij
father left the inn to return home. Just as he was getting into his jj
carriage Turton came to him and said, “ If you please, sir, I have ven- j
tured to take these rings off Mr. George’s fingers, as I think they are too j j
valuable to be left in such a house as this.’’ The very man of whom ij
George had dreamed as desiring to deprive him of the rings, did jj
actually take them off his hand 1 jj
Of course a sharp look-out was kept all along that shore for anything j
else that might he washed up; and on the Monday evening Turton jj
came to Mr. B-, bringing his son’s hat, a straw hat, with the ribbon of j
his college round it. “And if you please, sir, I dreamed last night jj
that young Jewsbury, the fisherman, picked it up, and brought it to me; jj
and this afternoon who should come with it but young Jewsbury. He j
didn’t know whose hat it was, but I knew by the ribbon.”
To this sad tale I may add a prophetic impression, not a dream, j
which occurred to my own maid the Sunday previous to the fatal Satur- jj
day. She had been for many years in one family, and was seated in jj
church next to the old servant of Mr. B., who had been nurse to George; jj
and the two faithful women were not very far from Mr. B„ who was jj
also in church. My maid was distracted for a considerable time during ij
the service, with a painful sort of waking dream that her master’s only j
son (my brother) was drowned, and that she and her master were look- j
ing for his body, which they eventually found under a wall on a shore ! j
Here, as in George’s dream, there was a confusion in the presentment j
of the fact. j
A DREAM ABOUT A DROWNED MAN. j
The following is from the Spiritual Magazine, June, 1873:— j
On Saturday night a villager named Andrew Scott dreamed of being j
along the coast on St. Cyrus sands, and finding a man among the rocks j
under Whitson Houses. On the following morning he told his wife he j
would go and see if there was anything in his dream. He took another jj
man with him, to whom he told his errand, and on reaching the spot, j
there was the drowned man, washed among the rocks, just as he had jj
seen in his dream. He was taken ashore, and the case reported to the jj
St. Cyrus authorities. He is supposed to be one of the men belonging jj
to The Providence, wrecked Dec. 19. : jj
(Signed) Daniel Hamilton, Johnshaven, Kincardineshire. jj
•Jan, 20, 1873, i I
Mr. Stainton-Moses then asked, “Who gave the information in the
foregoing cases ?’’ Serjeant Cox and Dr. Carpenter are requested to reply.
MRS. SIDDONS.
Professor Plumptre called attention to the anecdote told by Mr.
Stainton-Moses at a preceding meeting about Mrs. Siddons, to the
effect that once in a draper’s shop she nearly frightened one of the
assistants into fits by the tragical manner in which she glared at him,
and asked, in relation to the fabric in her hands, “ Will it wash ? ” He
(Professor Plumptre) had searched out the original anecdote in an old
book. The Kembles were distinguished for their calmness and dignity,
and it seems that Mrs. Siddons said, in a calm way, to the assistant,
“ I wish to see some socks.” These were shewn to her, upon which
she remarked :—
“ The socks are good, but think ye they will wash?”
Kemble was in the habit, almost, of speaking in blank verse. One
day a crossing-sweeper asked him for a copper; and Kemble, giving
him one, said—
“ See that thou, hast a penny.”
Then, turning to his friend Bannister, he said :—
“ Bannister, it is seldom that I do these things,
But when I do, I do them handsomely.”
Mr. Stainton-Moses remarked that no doubt Professor Plumptre’s
version was the right one. Last week he had only quoted the anecdote
to show the unwisdom of emphasising small matters in speech.
ON CERTAIN PSYCHOLOGICAL PECULIARITIES OBSERVABLE IN THE HEREDITARY
TRANSMISSION OF ENDOWMENTS AND QUALITIES.
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., then read a paper upon the above
important subject, from which the following is an extract:—
In introducing to the Psychological Society the present subject, lam
desirous rather of inviting attention to it, and of inducing those of our
members whose observations have been directed to the phenomena in
question, to favour us with the result of their experience, and to supply
us with authenticated facts that may lead ultimately to the enunciation
of a correct and sound theory on this very important and interesting
topic, than of endeavouring to establish any definite theory of my own.
As far, however, as my individual observation and experience serve
me, there appear to be two distinct modes in which qualities of each
kind are ordinarily transmitted by human beings to their children. In
many instances, which is probably the most common method, each
child inherits, in some proportion or other, the various qualities, intel¬
lectual and moral, of both its parents, a sort of general compendium of
their character. In other cases, instead of the various qualities pos¬
sessed by the parents being inherited by each of the children, they are
separately distributed singly, or by one or two only, among the several
members of the family, one of them inheriting this or that particular
faculty or quality alone of one of its parents to an extensive degree, and
another some two or more, instead of each of the children inheriting
each of the principal capacities and qualities of their parents. In
certain cases, however, the peculiar qualities and endowments, both
mental and moral, which are possessed most largely by the parents, the
offspring possess very sparingly; while some, which the offspring possess
very extensively, the parents are endowed with very slenderly.”*
In certain remarkable cases, the derivation of intellectual talent has
been traced to the mother, which has led some persons to conclude that
it is from the mother alone, and not from the father, that ability descends.
In other instances, however, it may be clearly shown that the talent
descended from the father, and not from the mother; while many very
clever women have children deficient in mental capacity. Instances
of the children inheriting generally the various qualities of both
their parents, are too common to require any illustration
here by example. Some families, however, supply remarkable
instances of the distribution of talent among the different members of it,
each such member being distinguished by some one particular endow¬
ment, while the head of the family possessed all these several qualities
together. The Coleridge family is a remarkable instance of this kind,
so many members of it being distinguished for their ability; but each
for an ability of a different kind—one as a lawyer, another as a poet,
another as a classic, another as a writer of romance.
One remarkable fact, indeed, in the transmission of talent is that,
although persons of distinguished ability often produce children of
corresponding power, that talent is of a totally different kind to what
the parents possessed. For instance, a distinguished artist, as in the
case of Copley, produces a son who becomes a distinguished lawyer and
orator, as in the case of Lord Lyndhurst. It seems to me very rare for
a great artist to produce a son so distinguished. A distinguished
lawyer, as in the case of Lord Chancellor Macclesfield, produces a son
who, as in the case of the second Lord Macclesfield, becomes a distin¬
guished mathematician. King Solomon was the son of a man of great
ability, but his talent was very different in kind from that of his father,
King David. Mr. Matthew Arnold is the son of a man of great talent,
Dr. Arnold, of Rugby—his talent is of a kind altogether different
from that of his father. In the case of Sheridan, his son was a man of
ability; but he appears to have inherited a portion only out of the
numerous talents which his father possessed. He was gifted with his
humour, but I do not find traces of other and higher endowments.
Occasionally we find one son alone, or one daughter alone, out of a
numerous family, inherits the talents of a distinguished parent. Very
often it is the eldest son who is so favoured. In other cases the eldest
son is passed over, and a younger son is the inheritor of his father’s
great qualities. This was the case with William Pitt, and it may be
remarked of Charles Fox as well.
Sometimes in the case of the descendants of a great man the talent
of the ancestor will, as it were, crop up after a few generations, and
* Harris’s Treatise on Man, Prel. Diss. SS. 5, Yol. I., pp. 18, 20.
Apeil 27, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 201
display itself in the members of some of the family. The same thing, I j j!
believe, occasionally happens in the case of certain diseases which are i(i
supposed to be hereditary. And it is observable, also, with regard to : 11
portraits, that a person will sometimes exhibit a remarkable likeness to i j i
an ancestor of some generations back. Observation with regard to the m
transmission of diseases, and also with regard to that of family likeness, i 5 j
may be very serviceable in directing us in the investigation of the laws | (|
which regulate the transmission of hereditary qualities. |(|
The colour of the hair affords, also, a striking indication of the mode i i
in which qualities descend from parents to children: one child having ! (j
its hair of the colour of that of the father, another of that of the mother, j | j
while the hair of the other children will resemble in colour that of one |) j
of the grandparents, great-grandparents, uncles, or aunts. ■ !(j
In the case of the breeding of animals, the transmission of qualities, i | j
and the mode in which this takes place, is exhibited more forcibly than |) i
in the case of mankind, and may afford us some useful hints with |(i
regard to the latter. But this is a branch of the subject which want of j)j
space precludes me from entering upon here at length. i) j
It was remarked, indeed, by the late Sir William Lawrance, that | \ \
“ the formation of new varieties by breeding from individuals in whom i j |
the desirable properties exist in the greatest degree, is seen much more |(|
distinctly in our domestic animals than in our own species, since the i) i
former are entirely in our favour.”* And that, “ if men in the affair of |)i
marriage were as much under management as some animals are in the |(]
exercise of their generative functions, an absolute rule might accomplish i | j
in his domain almost any idea of the human form.” f j<!
In the case of animals of a cross breed, the tokens of the mixture; j j
will appear in very remote generations, where by subsequent breedings j) ]
it might be supposed that all traces of the original cross would have been j) \
lost. In the case of man, where a marriage with one of quite a different j 11
blood—a mulatto, for instance—has taken place, a comparatively remote j j i
descendant will occasionally exhibit a striking resemblance to his in
mulatto ancestor, although the intermediate ancestors exhibit but very I \!
faint, if any, traces of this relationship. In this instance, moreover, |)|
some or one only of the children of the particular family will be marked !(j
in the way alluded to, while the others will be without any traces of this jjj
description.” |>j
“In several instances it has been observed that persons are gifted i(i
with remarkable endowments and qualities, intellectual and moral, as jjj
well as physical, which they may be traced to have derived from their j) i
grandparents instead of their parents. In the case of disease, this ijl
principle has long been recognised. It may not unreasonably also be jj I
supposed that not only the particular physical, moral, and mental con- j (j
dition of both the parents at the time of procreation has considerable jjj
influence on the character of the children, and may account for the jjj
extensive diversity among those of the same family; but events hap- j |
pening at the time of the conception of the child, and the peculiar jjj
pursuits of the parents, may largely affect the qualities of the offspring, jj j
So also the comparative age of the parents may have its effect in this j (i
respect—high-spirited children springing from parents who are young jlf
and vigorous, children grave and sedate from elderly parents.”! jj j
The most extraordinary feature of all, however, and the most difficult j j j
satisfactorily to account for, in the hereditary transmission of qualities j j j
and endowments, is that which is occasionally presented of a direct and jj j
striking contrast being observable between the parents and children, jjj
both as regards talent and moral endowment. We hear every day a j j
great deal about family likeness, but I believe that family contrast is jjj
nearly as common, although not so much observed. Thus, we not unfre- j j j
quently find that a man of great talents and acquirements has a son who jj j
is all but a fool, and in some instances his whole family will be much j j j
below par in point of intellect. Occasionally we see a son of brilliant jj j
ability, whose father is a man of very ordinary capacityj As regards j j;
the quality of energy, I have often remarked that a man of great energy j j j
will have a son who is remarkably deficient in this respect, and that jjj
men of particular energy are frequently the sons of men who were jjj
wanting in this quality. Sometimes one individual only in a family is jjj
distinguished for ability. In other instances all but one of the family j j j
are of more than average talent. In certain particular families mental jjj
superiority appears to run entirely in the female line; in others, in the jjj
male only.
PSYCHOLOGY PROVED BY MOLECULAR MOTION.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., in opening a debate upon the jjj
paper read at the previous meeting, said:— j(
“ The conclusions of Mr. Croll’s paper, which I may recapitulate for jj j
the sake of clearness,-are that the two great problems of molecular jjj
physics are:—1. The constitution of the ultimate atoms. 2. What jjj
determines molecular motion ? As to the first question, he tells us that j j j
he and we know nothing about it. A molecule is an aggregation of !jj
atoms. We know that; but what the ultimate atom is we do not jj
know, for the very simple reason that our senses are not constructed to jjj
perceive it. We must be content then to inquire. 2. What governs jjj
the motion of the molecule? Force causes motion. Yes; but what jjj
directs force ? Mr. Croll lays it down that the action of a force cannot j( j
be determined by a fprce ; neither can motion determine motion. And jjj
so, at last, he arrives, by a process of reasoning in which I can see no j j
flaw, to the conclusion that the directing agency must be something jjj
outside of molecular being. But this is precisely what I have been jjj
meaning by spirit, and my attempt to learn from Mr. Croll the nature jjj
of matter has landed me in spirit after alb This is perplexing. For, jjj
first, I can find out nothing as to the constitution of matter; and, next, jjj
I am told that its-guiding power is what I call spirit. Well, then, jjj
what grounds have I for believing in the existence ot this vague and jji
shifty substance at all ? I know that the popular belief is that not jjj
only is there matter, but also that there is nothing else. Mr. Croll jjj
* Natural History of Man. s. 6. c. vi. t Ibid. s. 2, c. vi.
t Harris’s Treatise on Man, Prel. Diss., s, 1, a 5, vol. I., p. 22.
disposes of the latter article of faith.; I begin to wonder if the former
rests on any better basis. There have been philosophers who are bold
enough to say that the senses reveal to us no such thing as matter ;
nay, that the popular theory respecting it does not square with the.
observed facts and phenomena. They tell us that ‘ we neither see, nor
feel, nor in any way perceive matter, and that whether as a matter of
fact it exists or not we have no means of proving its existence.’ All
that we can possibly know to exist is force. The physical world, they
tell us, is simply a phenomenal manifestation of divine power—force
energised by a power without, which is what I callj spirit, and, in its
ultimate analysis, God. I have lately fallen in with a book which
sets-forth these ideas with singular force and cogency—The World as
Dynamical and Immaterial, by R. S. Wyld, LL.D., F.R.S.E. It would
be futile to attempt to reproduce the close argumentation by which
he elucidates his theory that molecules are colocations of atomic
centres of feree, and that matter has no real existence at all. I must
be content with summarizing his conclusions, referring the curious to
his book for further information. Premising a number of proofs drawn
from physical science that matter does not exist, the author lays down
the following propositions :—1. We neither see, feel, nor have we any
distinct conception of matter, physical objects being cognized only by
their active properties. 2. Matter cannot direct the complex arrange¬
ments of this world, nor can any point be suggested at which its opera¬
tions, if once begun, afterwards cease. 3. If matter be an inert mass
operated on by deity, as some idealists have supposed, it is super¬
fluous, occupies space, and does nothing in it, which is contrary to the
plan of creation. From these and other similar propositions, the
author concludes—1. The world is a vast system of localized forces
acting under law. 2. The efficient agent is one external to the world
—is what we call Spirit. 3. A physical substance is a cluster of
atomic forces having a mutual relation and occupying a given space—
a vacuity in respect that matter does not exist in it—a substance in
respect of the energy expended from countless dynamical atoms or
centres of force. 4. These atoms are solid or impenetrable, inasmuch
as they possess repelling forces, and consequently occupy a definite
space ; but the atomic forces of one body when approached to another
body do not necessarily resist; they may combine, and, from the
alteration of their dynamical properties, form what to us is a new sub¬
stance. 5. Such is the visible world—a certain space occupied by
forces grouped and acting according to law; and since, as Faraday
stated, a body may be said to extend as far as its forces extend, the
universe may be regarded as one body, interpenetrated by the universal
ether, energized by spirit and by God. I am fully aware that a close
argument so abbreviated, and presented only in its conclusions,
becomes almost unintelligible. But if I have made myself understood,
and if I may be permitted to fix attention for the moment on these
conclusions, I submit that they propound a theory of much interest
and importance. I, however, make no claim or belief. I do but en¬
deavour to carry on a step further the conclusions arrived at by Mr*-
Croll, and if the arguments and facts of Mr. Wyld are, in the opinion
of competent critics, sufficient to carry his conclusions, then a very im¬
portant point has been gained. Whether they are so I make no pre¬
tension to decide, but there must be many present who will at once see
how the theory squares with many observations they have made in the
perplexing psychical phenomena that some of us have looked deeply
into. They will see how the dynamical theory, getting rid of the
notion of the materiality, the impenetrability of ponderable objects,
explains much that before seemed inexplicable. If time permitted I
could quote case after case within my own observation on which this
theory throws a flood of light. Such will occur to those who have ob¬
served these phenomena. I have no desire to provoke controversy on
a point which is only incidental. Mr. Croll asks the question—What
governs molecular motion? and answers it in effect—Spirit. Mr.
Croll asks also—What is the constitution of matter? and says—I do.
not know. No one knows. No one can know. Well, then, I ask the
question—Is there any matter at all f ”
The reading of this paper was followed by a discussion, in which Mr".
C. C. Massey, Dr. Wyld, Mr. W. H. Coffin, and Mr. Serjeant Cox took
part, after which the proceedings closed.
You have a disagreeable duty to do at twelve o’clock. Do not blacken
nine and ten and eleven, and all between, with the colour of twelve. Do-
the work of each, and reap your reward in peace. So when the dreaded
moment in the future becomes the present you shall meet it walking in
the light, and that light will overcome its darkness.—George Macdonald.
Which is Best.—Professor of Chemistry: “ Suppose you were called
to a patient who had swallowed a heavy dose of oxalic acid, what would
you administer? ” K   (who is preparing for the ministry, and who
only takes chemistry because it is obligatory): “ I would administer the
sacrament.”
Alleged Prophecies.—Mr. N. G. Parker, of Boston, Massachusetts,
writes to the Banner of Light about a question raised as to the genuine¬
ness of Mother Shipton’s prophecy“ It (the prophecy) is a well-
known fact. I am myself the owner of an edition published in Old
English, bearing date 1641; a copy of one printed in 1488. In the old
histories of England, published in the last century, there is quite a long
account of that person (Mother Ship ton), having reference to Cardinal
Wolsey. Some years ago I saw her stone at York, England. Nor is
Mother Shipton alone; there are several equally wonderful books whose
prophecies have already been proved correct regarding the kings of
France and England. Some few years ago the late Mr. Drake (anti¬
quarian) spent a whole afternoon comparing notes on these very points
with me ; he had several copies of books, and the envelope that enclosed
them was marked ‘ wonderful, because true.’ ”—Who is Mr. Drake, and
what are the prophecies referred to ?
202
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 27, 1877.
INQUIRERS’ SEANCES.
BY WILLIAM NEWTON, F.K.G.8.
On Thursday evening last, the 19th inst., the usual weekly !
sSance for inquirers was held at the Rooms of the British Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, |
London, with Mr. Eglinton as medium. The greatest I
strangers present were invited to secure him in any way !
they deemed necessary to prevent his hands being protruded |
through the opening in the curtain. His coat cuffs and the |
sleeves at the elbows were accordingly sewn together behind |
his back, the curtains pinned before him, while on his knees |
rested the “fairy bells,” visible to all. A voice was heard j
from the cabinet, conversing with the medium, and soon j
after Mr. Eglinton’s rings were placed on the box on his |
knees by fingers which were seen by those near the cabinet; |
a hand, of which all the fingers were seen, also thrust itself i
out, but nothing further noteworthy occurred, and soon after i
the sitting broke up, conditions being evidently unfavourable. ! j
One of the circle suggested that, in the position in which the j
medium had been placed, in was not impossible for his hands !
to be brought round to the front, but no one who has had r
experience of Mr. Eglinton’s bona Jides and thorough-going ! •
willingness to submit to the most rigid tests could doubt j
that, even if they were his hands that were shown, he was j
anything but a perfectly passive agent in the matter.
The facts of the seance point to the necessity, on the part \t
of inquirers, of patient and prolonged investigation.
THE CROSS OF THE LEGION OF HONOUR CONFERRED Ij
UPON MR. CALDER. j
> The gratifying circumstance is not generally known, even |
among Spiritualists, that the Cross of the Legion of Honour |
of France, was once presented to Mr. Alexander Calder, |
President of the National Association of Spiritualists. We 1
have, with some little difficulty, obtained Mr. Calder’s con- |<
sent to the publication of the following particulars:— j
Foreign Office, Paris, July 18th, 1848, j {
Mr. Colder, Vice-Consul for Denmark. j)
Sir,—I have been informed that at the time of the ship- Ij
Wreck of the frigate, La Gloire, and of the corvette La Vic- j
iorieusey on the coast of the Corea, you rendered most I
generous and timely assistance to the officers and sailors of j
these vessels on their arrival at Shanghai, where you were |
residing as Consul. I have also learned that you furnished j
the shipwrecked men with the means of returning to France, I
and that your intervention effectually reduced the expense of j
their re-shipment at a considerable saving to the public j
treasury,... r , |
Allow me, sir, to congratulate you on your noble conduct j
and your generous intervention, and accept the thanks which !
I offer you as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic. I |
shall have the honour to report your acts to the President of j
the Council, who is chief of the executive power, and I have j
no doubt that he will think it right to offer you some mark |j
of approbation. Accept, sir, the assurance of my highest !
esteem. (Signed) Jules Bastide,
Minister for Foreign Affairs^ ;)
Paris, 7th Octoher, 1848. j |
To Mr. Alexander Calder, Consul of His Majesty the King of Denmark at j)
Shanghai, now in Paris. , ’ l(
Sir,—I have the honour to inform you that, at my pro- j
posal, and by a decree issued on the 4th of this month, the j
President of the Ministerial Council charged with the execu- |
tive power, has appointed you an Officer of the Order of the j
Legion of Honour. |
I am happy to have been able thus to procure the recogni- j
tion of your generous hospitality and your good offices in j
favour of the sailors of the Republic. I
Our fraternal salute Verninac, j
Minister of the Marine and Colonies. \)
<c I will not stand committed either for or against the conclusions of K
this book. I am satisfied by the evidence of some of the facts ji
narrated; of some others I have evidence as good as testimony can \l
give. I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and heard in a |)
manner which should make unbelief impossible, things called spiritual
which cannot be taken by a rational being to be capable of explanation i)
by imposture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground firm
under me.”—Professor De Morgan, in the preface to From Matter to \)
Spirit, pi
. SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Under the heading of “ The River Giving up its Dead,” The New
York Times, of March 23rd, recounts the circumstances attending the
mysterious disappearance and subsequent finding of the body of Mr.
Gordineur C. Platner, a prominent merchant of Auburn, N.Y., who was
last seen alive by the Wall-street ferryman at New York City, on the
night of Nov. 21st. The body was not recovered until March 22nd,
during which period of waiting the friends of the deceased were filled
with sad reflections concerning his probable murder. Mr. Dick, a Mend
of Mr. Platner, identified the remains (by means of articles known to
have been in the possession of the deceased), and, further, related the
following story at the Coroner’s office, strong testimony to the reliability
and wonderful scope of the mediumship of Mr. Charles H. Foster:—
“ Mr. Dick stated that about a month after the disappearance of Mr.
I Platner, himself and several others, prompted by mere curiosity,
j attended a seance given by a well-known medium. Soon after Mr. Dick
I and his friends entered the room, the medium approached the former,
and said, ‘ I think, sir, you have a missing friend, whose whereabouts
you are anxious to ascertain. Search no longer, for he is in the spmt-
land. Look at the back of my right hand and you will see his name.’
Mr. Dick, in the utmost astonishment, saw inscribed in blood-red
characters on the medium’s hand, 1 Gordineur C. Platner.’ The
medium further informed Mr. Dick that Mr. Platner’s body was held
| fast under a pier in the North or East river, and would not rise to the
surface until several months had elapsed.”
This prophecy, as will be seen by a comparison of the dates given
above, has been verified to the letter.
THE DEPARTURE.
As a fond mother, when the day is o’er,
Leads by the hand her little child to bed,
Half-willing, half-reluctant to be led,
And leave his broken playthings on the floor,
Still gazing at them through the open door,
Nor wholly reassured and comforted
By promises of others in their stead,
Which, though more splendid, may not please him more ;
So Nature deals with us, and takes away
Our playthings one by one, and by the hand
Leads us to rest so gently, that we go
Scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay,
Being too full of sleep to understand
How far the unknown transcends the what we know.
Henry W. Longfellow, in the Atlantic Magazine.
(ttorresponuence.
[Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.']
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHURCHES.
Sir,—As a liberal in matters of theology I am pleased to note what
seems to be a new departure in the moral sentiments of modern
Spiritualism. Awhile back I contended in this journal that “ Spiritualism
without Spirituality ” was, and is, a vulgar, fruitless, unloveable thing.
Moreover, I have often been pained to see religion and its many “ good
men and true,” abused, undervalued, and misrepresented by certain
extreme radical thinkers connected with Spiritualistic inquiry. To intelli¬
gently modify a fossilised theology with the scientific light of latter-day
revelation, I can well understand. To totally despise a liberalised
Christianity, with its vast means of organic usefulness, is quite another
and a more serious question. But I find that The Spiritualist news¬
paper and the more influential investigators speak respectfully of the
various churches, in proportion to the amount of intellectual force,
culture, and earnest weight of character found combined in pulpit and
pew. You recently told the widespread readers of The Spiritualist,
that many of the London friends of the movement attend the church
where the Rev. Mr. Haweis preaches with such a Dean Stanley breath,
and where all the current questions of the time, which concern and
agitate society, find the most interesting and thoughtful methods of
pulpit treatment. I only know Mr. Haweis from published repute;
and if residing, as I do, in a provincial city, I envy those thus intel¬
lectually “ privileged,” I am surely to be excused. But, as I said above,
Spiritualism is outgrowing its once dangerous secular attitude. If
scientifically attested in its cardinal facts, why should it not soon
become a beautiful and a holy thing ? Its name is the result of a
phenomenal baptism; and the accidents of its strange history should
warn its mountain-prophets against the perils of a galloping degrada¬
tion. It has had more than enough of doubt and darkness. The
refining influence of religion may yet give it a daylight beauty, and a
nobler power of beneficial circulation! If, like the sweetbriar, its
fragance is intensified through the passing gloom of the summer
tempest, the conservation of its better qualities need not make its well
wishers impatient of its more effective development.
But I see an encouraging sign. The singularly able and opportune
articles in The Spiritualist, written by Miss Kislingbury and “A Broad
Church Clergyman,” touch upon an important question. Both writers
desire to give the movement an unassailable moral status, and I am sure
that hundreds of your well-informed readers will echo sentiments at
once so feasible and definite. In England and America Spiritualism
has been—unavoidably, perchance — almost entirely a “fragmatic
surprise ’’ in the otherwise important elements of physical mediumship,
whilst on the European Continent it has formed a less stormy bond of
April 27, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
moral cohesion, through its more refined religious aspirations. Of
course science—unless it is befooled — will always cry out for its
foundation facts; for, apart from this sure basis of attested revelation,
Spiritualism can never exceed the intangible hope of a frenzied dream.
But, if scientifically established, it may be made holy outside, as well
as inside, its new communion rails; and no man’s honourable religious
faith need feel an insult from the psychic wonders of seance experiments.
J. T. Markley.
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough.
MRS. LAWRENCE.
Sir,—The friends of Mr. J. W. Lawrence may be glad to know that
Mrs. Lawrence continues to receive the sum of 12s. 6d. per week from
the fund which was collected when her husband was first imprisoned.
I have lately received the following additions to the fund, viz.:—Mr.
Martheze, £1; Mr. C. C. Massey, £1. Mr. Peterson has also given the
family much assistance.
Mrs. Lawrence is a good machinist, and will be glad of employment
as a needlewoman. E. Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PHANTOM DOG NEAR MALVERN LINK. Kl
Sir,—Last night, Mr. Robert Maitland and the editor of the Malvern j j
News, joined me in an investigation of this subject, in the presence of j j
the owner of the deceased bitch, and of the two chief witnesses to her j j
barking since she died. The two latter swore that they would know her j i
voice among a thousand. We heard the bark distinctly and repeatedly, i j
but we all three agreed that, without in the least doubting the good faith | [!
of the witnesses, there seemed no sufficient reason for supposing that j j
what we heard was anything but a dog in the flesh, distant, at the very j (j
least, half a mile. The conditions were, in every respect, most favour- ]) i
able, and the two witnesses said that they had never heard the bark | (i
more distinctly. Under the circumstances, I think I need not trouble i(j
you with all the details. i i i
Mr. Maitland subsequently said that he had sent the story to you as j j j
being curious enough to be worth recording, but had not considered it of i
sufficient importance to be worth investigating. I think, on the con- !
trary, that records of uninvestigated allegations are worse than useless j
lumber. i
I asked Mr. Maitland whether he would write to you again, and he j (
said that he preferred to leave it to me to do so. A. Joy. j
Malvern, Tuesday, April 24th, 1877. jji
Mr. E. W. Wallis is giving a trance seance every Saturday afternoon j |
at three o’clock, at 38, Great Russell-street. After the discourse, the j j
subject of which is chosen by the audience, questions are allowed. j (j
Mr. Alexander Calder subscribed £5 towards the alterations on the | i
premises of the National Association of Spiritualists, not £1, as j
erroneously printed in our last. 11
Dr. Carter Blake has had a serious relapse, and is again in a very j)
precarious state. The last bulletin (Wednesday morning) is to the jj
effect that there is no change for the worse since the previous day.
Fortnightly Meetings.—On Monday evening next the fortnightly
meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists will be resumed at j)
38, Great Russell-street. The subject of the discussion will be—“On j(
Some Further Points Connected with Form Manifestations,” by Mr. W.
H. Coffin. j
Mr. Williams in Birmingham.—An account has been sent us of a i
siance given in a private house in Birmingham by Mr. Williams, a few i (
days ago, but the value of the narrative is entirely destroyed by none i
of the witnesses having given their names or addresses for publication. | (
Nevertheless, we depart from our usual rule of taking no notice of such i (
communications, and make a few quotations :—“ The circle consisted j
of seven ladies and gentlemen, including the medium; we sat at a |
round table in a darkened room, all holding hands to make it impos-: j (
sible for any one to move without being observed during the seance, j
A gentleman held Mr. Williams’s left and a lady his right hand, and i
neither of them loosed his hands during the whole of the time. The j |
‘ Oxford Chimes ’ had been placed on the middle of the table, this 11
was taken up, carried about the room and played to represent bells, I
with a beautiful crescendo and diminuendo; we heard it rapped j i
against the ceiling ; a little bell too was rung frequently and placed on i1
one of our heads; the piano, which was shut, was opened, and the i (
notes were struck several times with great force ; it was found shut at \ i
the end of the seance, A gentleman asked Peter to bring him a lily of j1
thejvalley that the lady who sat opposite him wore in her dress ; at j (
once the flower was carried round for each of us to smell, and then U
placed in one of our hands; later, it was taken back to its owner and: j
carefully replaced in the little button-hole bottle. One of the sitters
requested that a bit of the flower might be broken off and put between
her lips, which was immediately done. He next complied with another
request, viz., that some of the water out of the water-bottle (the only |
water in the room) should be put on the forehead of one of the sitters.
Then an arm-chair, away from the circle, was moved about and the
cushion and antimacassar upon it were brought to the table, the cord
of the former being placed round a lady’s arm, thus uniting her to her
neighbour. All this would have been worthless but for the fact that
it was a private siance, in a private drawing-room, where there was no
possibility of machinery or trickery, for we were friends having perfect j
confidence in each other, besides, neither we nor Mr. Williams (who
was conscious the whole time) were in such a position, our hands |
being held, that we could possibly have produced any of the manifesta-.
tions.” 1
Ettttarj) Notice.
Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism^ by D. D. Home.
London: Virtue and Co., 1877. ; , •>
A paragraph printed a fortnight ago in The Spiritualist
is so applicable to this book and its author, that we here re¬
produce it:—
Powerful physical mediums are always impulsive individuals,
strongly driven at times by their passions, and of these passions jealousy
of each other sometimes rages to a most abnormal extent, so that par¬
ticular mediums are noted for it, and, because of their measureless abuse
of their rivals, have alienated most of their own friends, and hopelessly
sunk themselves in a quagmire of contempt. Experienced Spiritualists
now never pay the slightest attention to what one physical medium says
against others, or against persons the speaker does not like, except to
believe the opposite of what is stated, and that the medium is probably
describing his own personal characteristics. Physical mediums are con-’
sidered to be “ out of court ” in criticising each other, and only land
themselves in disgrace by making the attempt; they sometimes fabricate
worse things about each other than are fabricated against the whole of them
by ignorant disbelievers, who class them as impostors. This is the worst of
all the shadows, and the worst of all the dangers of modern Spiritualism,
because it is internal; but Spiritualists have determined to put an end
to it. It has done much to lessen the prestige of mediums, and to
destroy respect far them; their influence is not one-half so great as it
used to be before this special characteristic, among others, became known.
Mr. Williams, Mr. Eglinton, and a few others, have won golden opinions
by keeping silence about rival mediums. The lower the spirits, the
greater is their direct power over common matter ; so persons thus
influenced require close watching and kindly guidance while they are
blazing with jealousy or other passions.
The first 176 pages of Mr. Home’s new book are devoted
to the Spiritualism of antiquity. Pages 177 to 373 (196 in
all) are chiefly filled with such mud in relation to other
physical mediums than himself, as the author has been able
to collect from the refuse of a great movement during a long
course of years. This collection will be of value only to the
enemies of Spiritualism, who will be glad of such an indus¬
triously constructed fountain to draw from when they wish to
slander the subject. After giving 196 pages to the “shadows”
of Spiritualism, the next part of the book, from page 374 to
page 402 (or 28 pages only) contains nothing further about
rival mediums, but is devoted to what are called “ the higher
aspects of Spiritualism,” to its “lights,” and these, forsooth,
consist chiefly, but not entirely, of a few remarkable seances
for physical manifestations, which, it is scarcely necessary
to state, were every one given through Mr. Home’s own
mediumship. In one or two cases the name of the medium
is not mentioned, but the veil of anonymity has been made
so thin as to be easily seen through without effort or desire.
From beginning to end of the book no creditable seance with
any physical medium but himself is recorded, and all the
kindly remarks he makes throughout the whole book towards
one and all the physical! mediums in the world, are exactly
none at all. As previously stated, the book will be valued
only by the enemies of Spiritualism, but these already get
much more garbage of the same kind for a shilling in the
book of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, whose ^collection of
refuse, therefore, carries off the palm.
The book has not one redeeming feature, and its author,
instead of issuing such a discreditable production to his own
injury, would have benefited himself had he heeded the
following remark written to him by Mr. William Crookes :—
I am doubtful whether such a book as you propose to publish will do
any real good. You know mediums have the reputation of being very
jealous one of another, and, consequently, any accusations which may
be brought by one against another, however well supported they may be
by facts, are explained away in this manner.
Dr. Davies’s Lectures.—-The last lecture of Dr. Maurice Davies’s ,
series on “ Modern Poetry ” came off at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, on Wednesday evening
last, and was devoted to “Humour: English and American.”. The
lecturer modestly resolved to make his discourse an annotated reading
rather than an actual lecture, and to let his humourists teil their own
story. The result was a thoroughly characteristic programme of
humorous illustrations, beginning with Sydney Smith’s inimitable
picture of “ The Pea-green Tradesman,” in his Royal Institution
lecture on “ Humour,” and ending with some very extravagant
instances of American fun from the pages of Bret Harte, the Biglow
Papers, Orpheus C. Kerr, and concluding with Mark Twain’s story of
“ The Good Little Boy who did not Prosper.” In conclusion, Dr.
Davies thanked Mr. Tamplin for his kind assistance in the way of
musical illustration for which he persistently refused fee or reward.
These illustrations were quite as successful in the comic as the serious
readings. Another course will be given shortly*
204
THE SPIBITUALIST.
April 27, 1877
HIGH CODET OF JUSTICE.
Queen’s Bench,—First Division.—April 19.
Sittings at Westminster.—(Before Justices Mellor and Lush.)
THE QUEEN V. THE JUSTICES OF MIDDLESEX.—THE END OF THE SLADE CASE.
Mr. S. Hill, Q C., with whom was Mr. Cooper, appeared to make,
the rule absolute that had been granted calling upon the Justices of
Middlesex to show cause why a mandamus should not issue command¬
ing them to hear the appeal in this case from a conviction of the
stipendiary justice at Bow-street.
Mr. Massey, in the absence of Mr. Besley, showed cause against the
rule. He submitted two preliminary objections to the rule. The first
was, that the conviction was no longer in existence, and the granting
of the rule would not revive it; and secondly, that before this rule
could be heard the order for quashing the appeal must be first quashed
by certiorari.
The Court held that if a certiorari was necessary, they would at
once amend the rule.
Mr. Justice Mellor said that what occurred at the Sessions was no
hearing at all.
Mr. Massey then submitted that the magistrate had heard the
appeal and exercised jurisdiction. The objection taken before the
naagistrate was not a preliminary one, but it arose on the appeal,
although it occurred at an early period of the hearing. The question
decided was on the form of the conviction, and was one that must have
been determined if the case had gone on for a considerable time. Their
decision on that point was an exercise of their jurisdiction. It
mattered not at what stage they exercised jurisdiction on the main
point to be raised in the appeal—viz., the omission of the words “ by
palmistry or otherwise.” The decision of the justices quashing the
conviction, so far from being a declining of jurisdiction, was a decision
oh the substantial point of law raised in the bill.
Mr. Justice Lush—You say that if the justices had heard, all the
evidence and had found that the defendant did use subtle means and
devices, they must still have considered if it made him a rogue and
vagabond within the statute.
Mr. Massey—And also that the words “ by palmistry or otherwise ”
were essential words to be considered. The mandamus would be no
direction to them how to decide these words. They would, in all pro¬
bability, decide in the same manner, and the result would be the
scandalous spectacle of an inferior court of jurisdiction setting their
lordships’ opinion at defiance in the exercise of that jurisdiction the
Court would command them to exercise. The mandamus would only
command them to decide—not to decide in a particular way. What¬
ever the form in which a conviction was drawn up there must have
been a hearing, and an exercise of jurisdiction. It would be a per¬
fectly good return to the mandamus for the justices to say that they
had quashed the conviction because, in the exercise of their jurisdic¬
tion, they had heard, and determined, and decided that the conviction
was bad. It mattered not whether they had decided rightly or wrongly.
This Court had only interfered when justices had acted from a mis¬
taken view as to their jurisdiction and powers in preliminary
matters. In this case, as he bad already said, a decision on the terms
of the conviction was within the jurisdiction of the magistrates,
although it was raised at the commencement of the appeal. There
must have been innumerable convictions quashed at sessions on the
mere forms of convictions, where the prosecutions entirely dissented
from the views taken by the justices ; and it was manifestly obvious
that if quashing on a matter of form was not an exercise of jurisdic¬
tion, there would be numerous records in the books to the contrary.
The negative argument was immensely in his favour on that point.
The justices, so far from deciding that they had no jurisdiction, had
decided that the committing magistrates had no jurisdiction in the
case that came before them on the ground that the conviction was bad
in form. The justices had here decided the matter of the appeal, and
it was immaterial at what stage of the appeal that was done. He
then submitted, what would perhaps be thought to be the substantial
point of contention, that the omission of the words <c by palmistry or
otherwise ” was fatal to the conviction.
Mr. Justice Mellor said that before the learned counsel entered on
that point it would be better to hear the other side on the point pre¬
viously raised.
Mr. S. Hill said the justices had not considered the facts of the
case. The justices refused to hear the case before them, and declined
jurisdiction, but decided on a preliminary objection. They did not
apply their minds to consider whether the facts set forth in the con¬
viction brought the case within the statute. The objection was pre¬
liminary that the conviction did not contain the words “by palmistry
or otherwise,” so as to make the defendant a rogue and vagabond
within the statute.
Mr. Justice Mellor—Was not the decision, although in one sense
preliminary, on a substantial point ?
Mr. Justice Lush referred to what took place before the justices on
the appeal, and said he could not see how the insertion of the words
“ by palmistry or otherwise ” would have improved the form of
the conviction. The Court refused to amend, and then held that the
form was bad. The finding was that the conviction on the face of it
was bad. If the amendment had been made they would have held the
conviction to have been good.
Mr. Hill said that was so, and then came the questions, was the
introduction of the words necessary to make the form of conviction
good, and was that decision a decision on the merits of the case ?
Mr. Justice Mellor said it was a great misfortune that after the
Assistant-Judge refused to amend, and had given his decision, lie also
refused to grant a special case.
Mr. Hill said that was done on the ground that he could apply for a
||| mandamus to have the appeal considered on its merits. The appeal
| was decided on what should fairly be called a preliminary matter, and
11 not on the merits. The magistrates did not interfere with the
ij! Assistant-Judge’s decision, because they were under the impression
j then that he had authority to speak for them. What was done
amounted to no decision of the Court.
| , Mr. Justice Mellor said the Court had come to the conclusion that
i the. rule for a mandamus must be discharged. It appeared to them
1 that the rule on which a mandamus was issued had been clearly stated,
but the question here was, whether the justices had declined to enter¬
tain the appeal. He was of opinion they had not. The first step to be
| considered was whether the conviction, by the omission of certain
| words, did not disclose an offence within the statute. The magistrates
| were inclined to amend the conviction, but they declined to do so,
thinking they had no power to do that, and by so deciding they com¬
mitted an error, and an indiscretion in deciding the appeal on the
conviction as it stood, and they came to an erroneous decision that
| the acts therein stated did not bring the offence within the statute.
! It would have been more wise and discreet if the amendment had been
I made, ora case stated for the opinion of this Court. The justices had
exercised jurisdiction, and therefore this Court could not interfere by
mandamus.
Mr. Justice Lush was of the same opinion, and had come to the
same conclusion with reluctance. He was not sure that the judicial mind
f of the learned judge who presided was applied to the construction of
the statute from his appearing to place so much reliance on the
| omission of the words, which, if inserted, would not, according to his
(Mr. Justice Lush’s) impression, have made the least difference in the
quality of the offence.
Eule discharged without costs.—Daily News.
On the first Wednesday in every month, Mr. E. W. Wallis and others
will carry on the most useful work of trying experiments in mesmerism,
at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, London.
The Banner of Light says:—“ Ex-Mayor Oakley Hall, of New York,
the prosecutor of mediums, has gone over to London to see his friend
Lankester.”
The mind is the measure of the man—grander in its empire than
military fame, vaster its conceptions than the edicts of emperors; the
men of all ages bow to the majesty of mental and spiritual greatness.
The editor of George Francis Train's Paper has favoured us with two
copies of that eccentric journal; its place of publication is printed as
,.; “ The Universe,” and the journal, many of the articles in which are in
verse, is described beneath the title as “A Psychologic Museum of Facts
||| and Keady-made Encyclopaedia of the Current Events of the Day I
I i Live Ideas in this Dead Age from the Most Sane Man in this Mad
if World!”
in Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.—A writer in Vanity Fair of last week,
i(i in the course of some remarks on Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, says :—
||| “I made an expedition lately to that-remote quarter of London,
|h Tavistock-square, perhaps the dreariest of those huge decayed but
Hi once fashionable quarters of town, At one corner of the square is
!|j a sort of inner square guarded by iron gates, on passing which you
i/i find yourself before a handsome but rather decayed-looking mansion,
||| yclept Tavistock-house. I believe Dickens once lived and wrote in
| i this house; but its present occupant is a lady well known in the
| i musical world, who has turned it into a sort of half-school, half-
|| refuge, where, with a perseverance and enthusiasm that do her
}1 credit, she passes all her time in teaching the young idea the rudiments
i of music. Was it not kind-hearted Mrs. Thrale who filled her hus-
| j band’s house at Streatham with infirm old paupers of both sexes,
| j much to the discomfort of her husband and the annoyance of her
(I great friend, Dr. Johnson, and Bozzy, a hundred years ago ? Mrs.
II Weldon—for why not name this kind, good lady ?—has done even more
11 than Mrs. Thrale, for these poor little waifs and strays completely fill
(i her house, large as it is. The day I was there (it was, for a wonder,
|i not raining), the entrance front of the house was alive with small
| | urchins of both sexes, scampering about with bare feet all over the
(| place. As to the unclothed feet, I asked the cause of this lack of
11 costume—for above the knee the future Bachs and Mozarts were com-
/: pletely if not luxuriously clothed. ‘ Oh, they enjoy running about like
(i that!’ I was told, and certainly, to judge by their gambols on the
11 gravel, they seemed happier than the smarter-dressed little folk one
) i sees strutting about the park in diminutive high-heeled boots. ( Come
(| and sing to Granny! ’ At this order the whole infantine troop
11 gathered round us, and, accompanied by ‘Granny’on a small hand
piano, performed a series of juvenile airs founded on nursery ditties,
(j such as ‘Jack and Jill,’ ‘Ba, ba, black sheep,’ and others. I cannot
Vi fancy children happier than these, and I wish they could always re-
) j main as they now are, for although their ‘ Granny ’ appears to imagine
(j that all will be distinguished singers or musicians when they come to
11 maturity, whatever their future may be, their good ‘ Granny ’ may
II hope that when the last days draw near, and when her sands of time
I! are drawing to a close, she will be able to look back with some hap-
11 piness on the trouble and toil she has spent in the education of these
) j poor little neglected creatures. At any rate, for her the promise will
(j hold good, that for those who have been kind and merciful to the
|i unfortunate on this dark little planet, a happier and higher life of use-
) j fulness will be given. As I sat in the doorway of this quaint old
yj house in Tavistock-square, and listened to these once unclaimed and
> i uncared-for little fragments of our social life singing the old nursery
r | ditties, I felt how much good could be done, and how much talent
(j discovered, were there more ‘Grannies’ like unto this one, whom I
, >j wish all possible success in her kind and hopeful enterprise. This
ih good lady will be glad to receive any old clothes, I believe.”
April 27, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced hy spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; .moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to •scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains. some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF.SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists' of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of som'e of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously’ governed in its action by the thoughts of the
roedimn or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES QF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlypublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
.book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. . “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. ed.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6<L
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6<L
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. 6d
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORV
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6cL
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.j 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
'he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
I ~ ' II.
IH, . „ •
IV. „ .
V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Laud
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers-to Ever-recurring Questions from the P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Speeiai Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthiy Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . ,
ople
s. d.
16 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
24
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikituaiisi Newspaper . . -2 6
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .6 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trm. Coll., Cam. .10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0 -
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0 :
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. .' .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . ... . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE- ~
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
i Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late i
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useftil Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J.. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R..
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam,
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d. . . 10 S
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr, R. %.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 27,. 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY/
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease,. or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO'S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the JEOPARDT of life is
Immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshiug draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and letter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.O.S., L A.O., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being toe only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
M ineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—VTA ARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DF. LA PAIX.
SPIRITUALISM:
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “M.A. (OXON.)”.
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books'on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are,
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I .decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism," dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.).’*
Names of Committee.
♦Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W,
♦Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
♦O. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
Virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet     ' 50 .0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.   20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq ‘20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq........ 15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq. ......',..1..;7...’ | 10 0 0-
Alexander Oalder, Esq      10 .0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq. ................7..(/'“IQ r0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq   ..v.....10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof  .....'.    10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D, JI0 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10: 0 0 1
m. r. I   ;...........:.....m 10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq     10 0 0
X.     10 0 0
B     Z    6 6 0
C.T          5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq   5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq    5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq...... ...'  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun   5 0 0
A Friend    5 0 0
B        300
Mrs. E. Dixon      2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whiteor     2 2 0
Dr. Baikie  ..;   ,220
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I    2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe  [.....     2 2 0
S.J.H.       2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.  i    2 2 0
Ennesfallen ;..   2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq .'......  2 0 0
W ,...;   2 0 0
G.V I 2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D...     2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Yacher, Esq.      2 0 0
Colonel Olcott   |    2 0 0
The Baroness von Yay   1 10 0
George Lee, Esq.    110
G. R. Tapp, Esq   11 0
Mrs. Maltby ^.......     110
B. W. Pycock, Esq.   110
Mrs. Nosworthy ,r...   110
C. T. Hook, Esq.  '. ,,....   110
Major Menars 110
A. Glendinning, Esq    110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.     1 1 .0
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq'., M.S.TeLE    110
Mrs. Hennings   ...'. ' 110
Dr. George Wyld  .....r...   110
Miss Allen ;   1 1 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq.   110
John Mould, Esq. •    ,*   110
J. P. Turner, Esq.     1 1, 0
J. T. Dodd, Esq   !   110
Mrs. Jeffreys      110
J. O. Eno       110
Miss Douglas     1 0 0
John Scott, Esq   .......;   10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq         1 0 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq     loo
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   1 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall    '.    10 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby   ;    10 0
John Chapman, Esq.    1 0 O '
G.F. Green, Esq.     ....;  0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby         0 10 6
R. Catling..,.........;.......,     0 10 6
E. R   ....'   0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq       0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq       0 10 0
A Friend       ...;.  0 10 0
A Friend         0 10 0
T. H......;     0 10 0
Miss Pearce    0 5 0
J. T. M           0 6 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.’
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace).'
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.  
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
