A RECORD OF THE PROQI\E££ OF THE ^CIE/'fCE AND ETHIC3
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
OF SPIRITUALISM,
No. 65.—(VoL. III.—No. 26.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 21, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
The weekly publication of The Spiritualist began last
week (Friday), and the price is reduced to THREEPENCE.
(tfontents.
National Organisation of Spiritualists ...   402
Inter-Planetary Communication  "  402
A Haunted House in Wisconsin   404
Thought Reading >  405
Rules and Constitution of the British National Association of
Spiritualists   ...’   ... 406
Spiritualism in Finsbury—Objections to Spiritualism—Miss Lottie
Fowler’s Mediumship—Archbishop Whately and Spiritualism-
Dark1 Seances—Philosophical Objections to Spiritualism—Mr.
Andrew Leighton’s Experiences        408
Correspondence.—The National Association of Spiritualists; Mrs.
Tappan’s Mediumship; The Lecture on the Logic of Spirit;
Madame Louise’s Mediumship; The Mystery of Edwin Drood ... 412
The Nervous System     413
Sudden Death of a Spiritualist  414
Paragraphs—Sunday Lecture Society, 407; British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists; St John's Association of Spirituaiists  414
Answers to Correspondents    414
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at GosweliTHall,
86, Goswbll-road, Commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. See.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all othqr Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
T
HE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
' 3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification' of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Oazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
B
IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.-
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
-29 and 30,
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospostus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasures'.
402
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 21, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium fou advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach,'and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Coreespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishes', Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and it'regulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The organising committee of the National Association
having performed its work, of drawing up a set of rules
and regulations, which it will recommend to the en¬
larged Council for adoption, has executed its task.
The next business the present Council will take in
hand is the drawing up of a prospectus and the issue
of invitations to leading Spiritualists to join the Council
in its work. The whole plan will thus be before the
public very shortly, and all the details can be well
considered by Spiritualists before anything is finally
decided. The proposed rules, regulations, prospectus,
and other matters will, together, make a small
pamphlet.
Everybody should be thankful to -the gentlemen who
are doing all this hard preliminary work, and they, in
turn, doubtless, desire to receive suggestions. One point
in connection with the excellent set of rules, perhaps,
deserves attention'. Rule II. gives the Association power
to do anything it deems to be for the good of Spiri¬
tualism ; still it defines the minor, or proselytising
work of the society, and says nothing about the
major duties, such as taking action in respect to
any legislation tending to affect Spiritualism, and
encouraging psychological research. Thus, when¬
ever it may undertake its most important work,
objectors may always plead—“ It is true your founda¬
tion rule gives you power to undertake this work, but
from its wording, the framers of that rule evidently
considered this to be but a proselytising and tract dis¬
tributing society; hence, in dealing with these import¬
ant national matters, you are exceeding the powers
given you by the spirit, if not by the letter, of your
regulations.” The power to benefit Spiritualism in
any way the Council may deem proper should, we think,
not be limited by a prospectus or by the definition of
means, or by various stated lines of action implying that
the framers of the rules intended that the Association
should run in particular grooves. These are but sug¬
gestions ; doubtless others will be made by correspond¬
ents, and the Council will, there is no doubt, give all
the points which may be raised a fair measure of con¬
sideration, and be glad to be assisted by any ideas cal¬
culated to perfect the work it has in hand.
INTER-PLANETARY COMMUNICATION.
Soon after Mr. Morse became a medium hu was
questioned, while in the trance state, as to the nature
of the sun; he then declared the sun to be inhabited.
Little did the source of information know of the dis¬
coveries of Mr. J. Norman Lockyer and others, or of
the apparatus which enables the fiery storms upon the
sun to be seen clearly by the human eye. The sun is
in a seething, boiling state all over; the heat is so
intense that even metals are boiled into steam and
vapour ; these vapours cool as they rise, and are con¬
densed into showers of white hot liquid iron, magne¬
sium, and so on, which metals rain down in fierce
storms upon the boiling mass below. Every now and
then enormous explosions occur low down in the sun,
blowing masses of lurid matter thousands of miles
high, these masses being themselves often as large as
worlds, but they fall down once more in molten rain
and fiery cloud, upon the orb from which they were
projected. Considering that no blast furnace which
man can make is hot enough to raise iron to the
gaseous condition, and that iron gas can only be made
momentarily, in small quantities, by the aid of the
electric spark, the alleged inhabitants of the sun must
have a warm time of it, especially as there is every
reason to suppose that the whole of the interior of that
orb is not in a solid but in a gaseous, or liquid state.
If it be true that there is “ no rest for the wicked,” the
dwellers in the sun are, perhaps, steeped in iniquity
from head to heel, for they must be continuously
floating about, like peas in a soap boiler’s vat, whilst
every now and then they may take a sudden rise in the
world, by the aid of one of the explosions.
So, whether we take Mr. Morse’s revelations about
the sun, Davis’s revelations about the nature of water,
or Mrs. Tappan’s about the mirage, they are, all of
them, equally unreliable ; but in all these cases it must
be remembered that the media were dealing with
physics, and not with things spiritual. The trance
utterances of Messrs. Morse and Davis about social
reforms and the growth of religious ideas, and the
spirituality and beauty of most of the poems and ad¬
dresses given through Mrs. Tappan’s mediumship, are
of a very high order. Why then the success in the one
case and the failure in the other ?
These remarks about the present general unreliability
of trance mediumship in dealing with physics, are
necessary to let any men of science, who may attend
the present Wednesday evening lectures, know that
Spiritualists do not accept all the utterances as beyond
question, but see the errors and desire to learn their
causes, and the way to eliminate them.
Mrs. Tappan’s discourse last week at the Gower-street
Nov. 21, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
403
Rooms purported to come from the spirit of Professor
Mapes, the American agricultural chemist, nor is there
any particular reason why the late Mr. Mapes should
not have been influencing the medium to the best of his
ability. One utterance was—that there was no chemical
difference between lime and marble, a mistake in ele¬
mentary chemistry which Professor Mapes himself
could by no possibility have made, since marble con¬
tains large volumes of carbonic acid gas, and lime none
at all. Lime is lime and nothing else, but marble is
carbonate of lime, which is a very different thing.
Whence the source of the error? Was it in conse¬
quence of Professor Mapes trying to control a human
brain untrained in his particular and very materialistic
lines of thought ?
The alleged Professor Mapes made a grand revelation
last week about Venus. He stated that the dwellers in
that planet are more advanced and intelligent than our¬
selves. He also stated that they are aware of the
coming transit of Venus, have prepared high towers
from the tops of which they intend to show strong
lights during the transit, in the hope of attracting the
attention of the observers upon the earth. The further
revelation was made that, as a general rule, the greater
the age of a planet the more intelligent were its in¬
habitants. Now, had this revelation been made about
events taking place in New York, its accuracy might
be inquired into, and at first sight it would appear that
no evidence on either side can be brought to bear upon
the question of the reliability of the message. But is it
so ? The early astronomers and astrologers, like
Vathek of old, conceived that high towers were advan¬
tageous aids to stellar research. The Radcliffe Obser¬
vatory at Oxford University was built when this error
was prevalent. It has a noble tower, and it requires
strong nerves to stand by the little meteorological
observatory on the roof, especially in windy weather,
and to gaze over the edge of the parapet upon the
ground below. But this and all other high towers are
useless for astronomical purposes. A few feet more or
less in distance from planets and stars give the observer
no practical advantage; but it is absolutely essential that
his instruments shall not be subject to the slightest
vibration. Hence large astronomical telescopes are
usually placed near the ground, and always upon solid
heavy pillars of masonry going down deep into the
earth. The Liverpool Observatory at Bidstone is built
upon the solid rock; yet we have been told by Mr.
Hartnup, the superintendent, that when persons walk
upon the rock outside the observatory, the vibrations
caused by their footsteps have sometimes interfered
with some of the indications upon the sensitive instru¬
ments within. At the Royal Observatory at Greenwich
the pillars of masonry supporting the telescopes come
up through holes in the floor, the floor not being
allowed to touch the masonry, lest the vibrations caused
by persons moving in the room should be communi¬
cated to the pillars. The observatory at Twickenham
is low down, in a somewhat marshy spot, instead of on
the top of Richmond-hill opposite. Astronomers do not
want high towers, but require firm foundations, and
freedom from those atmospheric disturbances which are
caused by the escape of hot air from the chimneys of
adjacent houses. Towers upon Yenus would be of no
use in attempting to direct strong lights to the earth;
infinitesimal vibrations of the towers would tend to
throw the beams of light very wide of a mark placed
at the distance of the earth. Much the best position
for the light would be near the ground. The erection
of towers would prove that the inhabitants of Yenus
had not advanced sufficiently to free themselves from
erroneous ideas once believed in by earthly astrologers,
but long since discarded by modern astronomers. This
lack of knowledge of the dwellers in Yenus agrees with
one part of Professor Mapes’ revelations. According to
the nebular theory (which appears to be the true one)
the earth must be ages older than Yenus, and upon the
age of a planet, said the Professor, did the intelligence
of the inhabitants, as a general rule, depend. On con¬
sidering these points it will be seen that a clue is not
wanting so completely as might have been supposed, as
to the probable reliability of the alleged news from
Yenus.
The revelation last week asserted the inhabitants of
Yenus to be far more advanced in intelligence and
spirituality than those of this earth. But Andrew
Jackson Davis has also had a clairvoyant revelation
about Yenus. He said that the inhabitants of one-half
of that planet are in very nearly the same mental and
moral state as those of this earth, whilst the inhabi¬
tants of the other half of Yenus “ are in a less perfect
condition mentally than any of the inhabitants upon
the surface of the earth.” Let us hope, then, that
Yenus may be right side uppermost during the transit,
that the more advanced inhabitants may have a fair
chance of getting their magic lanterns to play upon
our earth. And could not we do something on our
side, by constructing electric lanterns, and projecting a
likeness of the respected secretary of the Liverpool
Psychological Society—Mr. Chapman—upon the dark
side of the fair planet Yenus ? By using two slips of
glass, the eyes of our good friend Mr. Chapman might
be made to roll, just as tiger’s eyes are sometimes made
to move in dissolving views; the excitement upon
Yenus would then be immense, and Professor Mapes
might give us a full description of the scene there
through Mrs. Tappan’s mediumship. He would pro¬
bably tell us how the Yenutians danced, lit bonfires,
put themselves on amicable terms with the police,
“ made a night of it,” and were as happy as a horde of
savages just presented with a barrel of train oil to
polish themselves with, for the less intelligent inha¬
bitants of Yenus are not very refined. Here is what
Andrew Jackson Davis says about them :—“ They are
full, heavy, and giant-like. A barbarous and savage
disposition is displayed in all their actions. They form
themselves into troops, and march forth to plunder the
stores of other nations. They cruelly interfere with
the peace and quietness of the inhabitants of other
regions, and when they return from these degrading
and barbarous expeditions, they rejoice with a beastly
gratification in devouring the booty and plunder that
they have so unjustly taken from others. . .. And the
booty which they carry away from others is sometimes
their living offspring; these they torment and torture,
and finally, cannibal-like, greedily devour them ! ”
Although the moon has, practically speaking, no
atmosphere, and in several respects appears to be
unfitted to sustain animal life, Swedenborg and other
seers have made revelations to the contrary. If from
the earth we could throw a strong light upon the dark
side of the moon, and signal messages by mean's of a
Morse’s (Morse the electrician, not Morse the medium)
alphabet of long and short flashes, what a sensation it
would create among the assumed dwellers in our satel¬
lite. Some of them would discover that the flashes
404
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 21, 1873.
were governed by intelligence, and at once say, “ It's
spirits,” thereby causing great hubbub. The great Dr.
Sawyer would at once put down the ignorant delusion,
by proving to his own satisfaction that the phenomenon
did not occur, and that the witnesses were deceived
by the unconscious action of their brains. Serjeant
Hens would declare that it was all psychic force, whilst
Dr. Dichson would argue learnedly that the flashes
were caused by brain waves—that when one man
punched another man’s head, certain other persons saw
flashes of light owing to the action of intermediate
vibrations. Then a great learned society would de¬
clare that the flashes did not take place; it was true they
had not been to see whether they took place or not, be¬
cause they knew beforehand that they could not possibly
occur; if they did, it would be <c contrary to the laws
of nature.” Besides, their great Dr. Puz was busy
about other matters, and was making wonderful dis¬
coveries by dissecting the hind leg of a dead rat; how
could he be expected to leave so important a matter
because certain foolish people thought they saw flashes
of light, produced by spirits ? In the meantime our
earthly philosophers would grow tired of signalling to
people who spent their time in wrangling instead of
receiving and replying to the messages, and aiding in
eliminating sources of error. Consequently they would
pay a man £1 per week to go on making the flashes, and
themselves attend to more important duties. Then,
when the men in the moon began to read the messages,
they would complain, “ Here’s bad spelling ! ” Or
worse, “ This message is not true ! ” Then their priests
would interfere and argue that if spirits made the
flashes, they must be wicked spirits—devils. Thus the
ecclesiastics would try to frighten the observers once
more into their decaying ancient worship. In the
words of Bon Gaultier they would say—
Come and worship Mumbo Jumbo,
In the Mountains of the Moon.
Then the great Mr. Sponge would appear on the scene,
and roll hither and thither for several years all over the
moon among the believers in the flashes, crying, “ Give
me cash! give me cash! ” And he would absorb all funds
everywhere, so that there would be none left, and spend
the same in making a big trumpet, which he would blow
lustily morning, noon, and night, sounding forth his
own greatness and glory, might, majesty, and dominion,
until the people grew tired of the din.
What with the threats of the priests on the one
hand, and the questionable character of some of the
messages on the other, the bewildered populace would
say to the unseen communicants, whom they believed
to be spirits :—
If in your new estate you cannot rest,
But must return, oh, grant us one request:
Come with a noble and celestial air,
And prove your titles to the names you hear;
Give some clear token of your heavenly birth,
Write as good English as you wrote on earth:
And*, what were once superfluous to advise,
Don’t tell, I beg you, such egregious lies.
We would not ridicule the subject of inter-planetary
communication, for that spirits can carry messages and
even solid objects for long distances is certain, and
clairvoyants often witness scenes distant both in time
and space; the thing to be done is to eliminate the
great unreliability at present besetting these pheno¬
mena ; the sources of error should be discovered and
removed. Professor Mapes professed to control Mrs.
Tappan last week, and said that he would be present
every Wednesday evening. Now Mr. Coleman knew
Professor Mapes in America, so if the former would
attend one of the meetings, the latter might or might
not prove his identity by narrating circumstances which
occurred when they last met. This done, there would
be a truthful spirit on the one side, truthful inquirers
on the other, and a truthful medium in between. Then
Professor Mapes should be questioned as to his difficul¬
ties in controlling the medium; he should be asked to
explain why he cannot speak in exactly the same terms
as he did when on earth; and he should be asked what
mortals can do to enable him to get more complete con¬
trol. Thus, the meetings might perhaps be made of
value to scientific Spiritualists.; but, so far as other
scientific men are concerned, the Sunday evening dis¬
courses on Spiritual subjects will influence their minds
far more favourably than the Wednesday evening
lectures.
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN WISCONSIN.
[From the liMilwaukee News”)
Hudson, Wis., Oct. 10, 1873.
We have just returned from a tramp of thirty miles
through the woods, the object of which was to give a
truthful account of the wonderful things that are going
on at the residence of Mr. Richard Lynch, who lives
at the north-east quarter of section 36, in the town of
Cady, St. Croix Co., Wis. The doings there for the
past six weeks are creating the greatest excitement
ever known in this part of the country. So with a
full intention to go and investigate, regardless of
expense or danger, we left Ellsworth, Pierce County,
last Monday, travelling through woods, across lots, and
reached the scene of action about 2.30 p.m., on Wed¬
nesday, October 8, 1873.
We found five men and three women there, besides
the family, which consists of Mr. Lynch, who is a
middle-aged man ; his wife, who is a lady about
twenty-eight—by the way, a second wife ; a son
eighteen, a girl twelve, a boy six, and a little girl two
years old. Thousands of people have visited this house
within the past few weeks, and none have been able
to solve the great mystery. Spiritualists say it is the
work of departed spirits. If this is so, they must be
very bad spirits. Others say it is the work of the
devil, others that it is witches, and others that they do
not know what it is. After spending a day there, and
seeing eggs, potatoes, rolling-pins, stove handles, cups
and plates get up and shoot across the room in open
daylight, we fully agree with those who confess they do
not know what the cause is.
Mr. and Mrs. Lynch state they moved here from
Pulton Co., Indiana. Their post-office address there
was Bruce’s Lake, which was near the county seat.
They arrived here two years ago, the 24th day of May.
All went well until a year ago, last January, when
Mrs. Lynch found two collars “ that she had made
from the pieces left of the shroud of a little girl she had
buried ” cut up, two holes cut in her feather bed, and a
fine shirt and a new delaine dress badly cut. At first
she thought it was her little boy, and many are the
whippings the poor little fellow received, until she
became satisfied he did not do it. This lasted some four
days. Five weeks ago, last Saturday, at about twenty
minutes past three p.m., the clock came down, went
across the room and laid down in the cradle. Next
came a great noise like the falling of boxes and lumber.
Nov. 21, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
405
but nothing could be seen. Then cups, plates, knives,
and various other things commenced to move around
and break up, and various articles of clothing would be
cut. The scissors would start out and commence cut¬
ting, with no one near them. Mrs. Lynch had some
twenty dresses ruined. Mr. Lynch’s shirts were cut,
and the back of the little boy’s vest was cut while it
was on him. This she gave to us. A good bed quilt
was fearfully cut up, and a gallon of kerosene was
emptied on the bed. In fact, we could fill columns
with things of this kind. Wo will give a few of the
many persons who have been there: Mr. Flint, editor
of the Dun County News, at Menominee; the editor of
the River Falls paper; Peter Moharan, Eau Claire ; F.
T. Williams, Ellsworth, Wis. They had a Bible and a
work written by Rev. Peter Aker, a Methodist clergy¬
man from Illinois. He had been reading in them, then
tied them up in a handkerchief, and laid them on the
stairs. Presently they were gone, and afterwards found
in different places in the bedroom. The book written
by the clergyman was torn, but the Bible was not hurt.
The handkerchief was found in a barrel of feathers.
The^ Bible belonging to Mrs. Lynch went into a kettle
'of boiling water and was spoiled. During the past week
large quantities of water have been thrown on Mrs.
Lynch and the children. We will close by relating a
few things that happened while we were there. About"
5 p.m. Mr. Lynch and the oldest boy were out in the
field, some distance from the house; the children were
all out in front of the house, and we were talking to
Mrs. Lynch near the outdoor cellar, about six or eight
rods from the house, when we heard a noise in the
house, as though the devil was moving things down
stairs, the way Gail Hamilton’s husband told her the
next time she wanted to get her trunk down to go to
Boston. “ There,” said Mrs. Lynch, “ you hear that,
and you also see that none of the family are in the
house ? ” We at once went into the house, found the
table tipped over; otherwise all was right. Nothing
more was heard or seen that night. When it was bed
time we took off our clothes and went to bed, with a
clear conscience that we were in no way responsible
for the actions here, the present financial crisis,
“ wheat seventy cents, a bushel,” nor the acts of the
present administration. Yet, kind reader, having done
our best for the election of honest Horace Greeley, and
being an earnest seeker after truth for the Milwaukee
News, we felt no harm would happen to us, and nothing
did. In the morning, about 8.15, things commenced to
move.
One thing peculiar is that you can never see a thing
start, but the instant you turn your eyes it gets up and
goes. Another peculiar feature is, that where a thing
strikes there it lays, neither bounds nor rolls. We took
some of the same things and threw them a number of
times, but they would bound or roll every time. We saw
a piece of broken cup hit the little two-year-old girl on her
back, so she almost cried. A raw potato hopped out of
a dish where we were, and split on the floor, and while
we were seeing a stove handle light in one place, a tin
plate whisked by our head in another direction. Mr.
Lynch cordially invites any and all to come and see if
they can explain the cause or stop the performance.
He further says if any spiritual medium or sleight-of-
hand performer will come there and do the same things,
he will give him 50 dollars. The family all felt bad.
Some think, who have not seen it, that it is the family.
What object can a family in their circumstances have in
destroying their own property, and rendering themselves
so uncomfortable and unhappy?
We think the same cause moves these things that
moved things in the Rev. John Wesley’s house, and the
Rev. Dr. Phelps of Connecticut, and many others too
numerous to mention, in all ages and parts of the world.
In this statement we do not refer to those things that
Spiritualists claim to move in the dark. Mr. Lynch is
not a member of any church. Mrs. Lynch has been a
member of the Dutch Reformed Church. Any person
going there should be prepared to stay at least twenty-
four hours, and do not go on Sunday, as there has never
a thing been moved on the Sabbath. The nearest rail¬
road point is Wilson station, on the West Wisconsin
Railroad, which is about eight miles from the house.
We submit the above as a small part of what we know
of this wonder of wonders, and say to all who can go
and see how it is for yourselves, we will gladly furnish
the Daily News a year to know what causes these things
to move—JReligio-Philoso'pTiical Journal.
THOUGHT READING.
The dividing line between nature and the super¬
natural is in some places very obscure. A young
gentleman of the name of J. R. Brown, a resident of
Red Oak, la., aged 21 years, called at the Tribune
office, yesterday, in company with ex-senator Woodard,
of this city, and a gentleman of Whiteside County.
Mr. Brown was introduced as one possessing remark¬
able psychological powers, of which the assembled
editors were invited to make a test. We were informed
that, if any person would go to another part of the
building and deposit any article whatsoever in a secret
place, Mr. -Brown, being blindfolded, would take the
person by the hand and lead him directly to the place,
the only condition being that the person depositing the
article should keep his mind intently fixed upon it. One
of the gentlemen of the Tribune thereupon went into
an adjoining room, closed the door, and placed a coin
inside a volume of the Poland Credit Mobilier report,
and covered this volume with several other books.
Returning, Mr. Brown, having a handkerchief tightly
bound over his eyes, took this gentleman by the left
hand, held the hand for a moment against his own
(Mr. Brown’s) head, and then walked against the door
of the adjoining room. The door being opened, he
marched against one of the glass doors of a bookcase,
having a dozen or more similar openings. This door
being opened, he placed the hand of the gentleman who
had secreted the coin on the Poland Credit Mobilier
report, and said,si There it is.” He did not claim to know
what the thing was, but he knew where the place was.
Several experiments similar to the foregoing were
tried, with the invariable result that Mr. Brown, by
placing the hand of the experimenter on his own fore¬
head, was enabled to walk directly to the place where
the object had been placed. It was also ascertained
that if a person should merely fix his thoughts on any
object in the building, Mr. Brown would go directly to
it, having first placed the person’s hand on his own
head. The only explanation Mr. Brown can give of
his own powers is that, when the hand is placed on his
head, he sees a light leading to the object of which that
person is thinking. He does not pretend to read any¬
body’s thoughts in any other way than this.
It is fortunate that Mr. Brown was born in the nine¬
teenth century instead of the seventeenth, else he
406
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 21, 1873.
would -have been burned for a witch. As it is probable
that he will give some public exhibition of his powers,
we turn him over to the “ scientists.” That there is no
humbug in his case we are fully persuaded. - The ex¬
periments to which he submitted in the office of the
Tribune, in the presence of half a dozen extremely
sceptical experimenters, seem to prove the existence of
a physico-psychologic force to which the name of
“animal magnetism” is most commonly applied. The
existence of such a force has long been suspected, but
the conditions of its operation are so rare, and. the
means of verifying the testimony concerning it are so
unsystematised that it has no scientific basis or recog¬
nition whatever. As a starting point for some well authen¬
ticated information upon the subject, we suggest that the
medical profession of Chicago appoint a committee,
whose testimony would be universally accepted, to hold
a “seance” with Mr. Brown and report the facts.—
Chicago Tribune.
RULES AND CONSTITUTION OF THE BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The following are the rules which the organising
committee of the National Association will recommend
to the Council for adoption after the Council has been
enlarged:—
I. —The name of this Association is “ The British National
Association of Spiritualists.”
II. —The object of the Association is to further the interests
of Spiritualism—by correspondence, by printing and distri¬
buting publications, by the formation of a library of works on
Spiritualism and kindred topics, by public meetings and lec¬
tures, by influencing the public press, by offering a medium of
communication between local and provincial societies, by
promoting the establishment and affiliation of such societies
(which shall, notwithstanding, maintain their own separate
independent government and action), and by taking such
other steps as may be incidental or conducive to the attain¬
ment of the above object.
III. —The Association consists pi members, and of honorary
or corresponding members.
IV. —The government of the Association is vested in a pre¬
sident, not more than twenty vice-presidents, and a council of
not exceeding seventy members. The honorary secretaries
and the treasurer shall be ex-officio members of the council.
Each local affiliated society may appoint a representative who
shall also be ex-officio a member of the council.
V. —Every candidate for admission as a member of the
Association shall be proposed in writing by one or more
members who, on his behalf, and by his authority, shall assent
to the constitution and rules of the Association, and consent
to abide and be governed by them. They shall also certify in
writing, from personal knowledge of him or his works, that he
is a fit person to be admitted a member of the Association.
Every such certificate having been read and approved at a
meeting of the council, the election shall be proceeded with.
No person shall be admitted unless at least three-fourths of
the council personally present vote in his favour. The council
shall cause the result of the election to be made known to the
candidate—who, if elected, shall be furnished with a certificate
of membership and a copy of the aforesaid constitution and
rules.
VI. —Each member shall pay an annual minimum contri¬
bution of 5s., which may, at any time be compounded for by a
single payment of £3 3s. The annual contributions shall
become due in advance on the first day of January in each
year. If any member of the Association have not paid his
subscription before the 1st of July, he shall be applied to in
writing by the secretaries, and if the same be not paid before
the 1st of January next ensuing, a second written application
shall be made by the secretaries, and if the subscription be
not discharged before the 1st of February, the secretaries shall
report the same to the council, who shall use their discretion,
in taking such measures in regard thereto, as the exigencies of
the case may require. No member shall be entitled to vote at
any meeting of the Association until he shall have paid his
contribution for the current year.
VII. —If any member desire to resign, he shall give written
notice thereof to the secretaries. No resignation will be
deemed valid unless a written notice thereof be communicated
to the secretaries. Such member shall, however, be liable to
the contribution of the year in which he. signifies his wish to
withdraw. Every member shall continue liable for the annual
contribution until he shall have returned all books or other
property of the Association, borrowed by him, or shall have
made full compensation for the non-return of, or damage to,
the same, to the satisfaction of the council. No member of
the Association shall be permitted to withdraw from the Asso¬
ciation unless and until he have first paid all arrears, and
returned all books and property of the Association that he may
have. When a notice of resignation has been accepted, an
acceptance, signed by the president, or one of the vice-pre¬
sidents, shall be sent to the person desiring to withdraw, and
the same shall be a full discharge from all and every liability
to the Association.
VIII. —If any member of the Association shall so demean
himself that it could be for the dishonour of the Association
that he longer continue to be a member, the council shall be
summoned to consider the case, seven days’ notice of the
meeting and its purpose being given to the council and to the
member, who shall be at liberty to attend the said meeting
either in person or by his proxy (duly appointed by him in
writing), and may present any statement, either written or
otherwise, in justification of his conduct, or in extenuation
thereof. If the council, after due deliberation, shall be of
opinion that his further connection with the Association would
be discreditable to it, their decision shall be reported to the
next ordinary general meeting, and the president of the meet¬
ing shall say: “ By the authority and in the name of the
British National Association of Spiritualists I do hereby
declare that A. B. (naming him) is no longer a member
thereof and his name shall forthwith be erased from the
list of members.
IX. —The ordinary general meetings of the Association shall
be held on the third Wednesday in January, April, July, and
October. Nothing relating to the rules and management shall
be discussed at the ordinary meetings, except that the auditors’
report shall be received at the ordinary meeting held in the
month of April preceding the anniversary meeting, and that
the minutes of the anniversary meeting, and of every special
general meeting, shall be confirmed at the next ordinary
meeting after the day of such anniversary, or special general
meeting.
X. —The annual general meeting, or anniversary, shall be
held on the third Wednesday in May. The business of the
anniversary meeting shall be to receive the report of- the
council, to elect officers, and to discuss questions on its rules
and management. Members shall not be proposed nor elected
at the anniversary meeting. A member shall not moot any
question on the rules or management of the Association unless
he shall have given at least three weeks’ notice thereof to the
council, but amendments to any motion may be brought for¬
ward without notice, provided they relate to the same subject
of motion. The council shall give ten days’ notice to every
member of all questions of which such notice shall have
been given to them.
XI. —At the first anniversary meeting in the year 1875, and
at each succeeding anniversary meeting, the president, one-third
(or the number next below thereto) of the vice-presidents and
members of the council, the treasurer p,nd one of the honorary
secretaries, shall retire from office, but they shall be eligible
for re-election. Provided always that no member be elected
to the same office more than two years in succession, unless
three-fourths of the votes recorded be in his favour. The vice-
presidents and members of the council to retire from office in
the years 1875 and 1876 shall, unless they otherwise arrange
among themselves, be determined by ballot. In every sub¬
sequent year the persons to retire shall be those who have
been longest in office. All officers shall be deemed to be
in office until the termination of the anniversary meeting.
Any official vacancy occurring through death, resignation, or
otherwise, in the interval between any two anniversary meet¬
ings, shall be filled up' by the council electing some member
of the Association to fill such vacancy; but the member so
elected shall continue in office only until the expiration of the
term for which his predecessor was elected. Notwithstanding
anything in these presents to the contrary, such an officer, so
elected, shall be eligible for re-election by the Association for
the two years next succeeding.
|, XII.—All officers of the Association must be nominated by
two or more members. All nominations must be sent to the
Nov. 21, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
407
secretaries not less than fourteen days prior to the anniversary
meeting. And at least ten days before such meeting, the
council shall forward to every member of the Association a
schedule of such nominated members, from whom the officers
for the ensuing year shall be elected. The schedule shall
always include the names of the officers for the current year,
who may be eligible for re-election. The votes shall be recorded
on the schedule in the manner in which the council shall
direct, provided tha principle of the ballot be not infringed.
And the return of the schedule shall be made in accordance
with the regulations, for the time being, imposed by the
council. Every member of the Association (subject to the
regulations contained in these presents) shall be eligible to be
elected to any office in the Association.
XIII. —The council may, whenever they think fit, call a
special general meeting of the Association; and they shall do
so, upon a requisition in writing signed by fifty or more mem¬
bers. The requisition must specify, in the form of a resolution,
the object intended to be submitted to the meeting. Seven
days’notice of the meeting, and of the resolution to be sub¬
mitted thereat, shall be given to every member ; and the busi¬
ness of the meeting shall be confined, exclusively, to the
object specified in the resolution.
XIV. —The quorum for ordinary meetings shall be seven,
and for anniversary meetings ten members. If at any ordi¬
nary or armiversary meeting a quorum shall not be present,
the meeting shall stand adjourned until the ordinary meeting
next ensuing, when the business shall be proceeded with,
notwithstanding that a quorum of members, as herein defined,
may not be present.
XV. —The council shall meet as often as the business of the
Association may require, but in any case not less frequently
than once a month. An attendance book shall be kept, and
signed by each member of the council at the time of entering
the council-room. In all meetings of the council five shall be
a quorum; all questions shall be decided by vote, and a de¬
cision of the majority shall be the decision of the meeting ;
the chairman to have, in addition to his own, a casting
vote.
XVI. —The council shall have power to appoint committees
of members for special purposes. These committees shall
report their proceedings to the council. A report which is not
approved by the council shall not be communicated to the
Association. The council may, at their first meeting after
each anniversary, appoint an executive, to consist of not more
than thirty members of their own body. This executive shall
exercise all the powers, and perform the duties, which by
these presents are conferred upon or required of the council,
and shall continue in office until the termination of the next
anniversary meeting. The council shall have the power to
appoint, employ, remunerate, and discharge such assistants as
they may deem necessary for conducting the business of the
Association. No member of the governing body shall be per¬
mitted to receive any payment from the funds of the Associa¬
tion, for, or on account of, any services rendered to, or work
done for, the Association.
XVII. —The council may elect as corresponding members,
persons distinguished for their services in connection with
Spiritualism; and who shall be elected under the same con¬
ditions as laid down in rule No. 5 for ordinary members. Such
elections shall be announced to the Association at its next
ordinary general meeting.
XVIII.—The president shall preside at every meeting of the
Association or meeting of the council at which he may be
present; he shall keep order in all proceedings; submit ques¬
tions to the meetings; and perform the other customary duties
of chairman. In the absence of the president one of the vice-
presidents shall occupy his place and discharge his duties. In
the case of the absence of the president and vice-presidents the
meeting shall elect its own chairman.
XIX.—The secretaries shall, under the control of the
council, have a general charge of all the arrangements of the
Association, and of the execution of all the orders of the
council. They shall conduct the correspondence, and shall
take and keep copies thereof. They shall attend all meetings,
and forward the business of the same. They shall record the
proceedings of the several meetings in the several minute
books. They shall keep a complete and correct register of the
names and addresses of all the members. They shall also have
charge of the books, papers, specimens, and other property of
the Association, and shall see that all additions to the same
are properly placed and catalogued. In the absence of the
secretaries, their duties shall be performed by some person
appointed by the council for that purpose.
XX. —The treasurer shall receive all moneys due to, and by
order of the council, pay all moneys due from the Association,
and shall keep an account of his receipts and payments. He
shall invest the moneys of the Association in such manner as
the council shall from time to time direct.
XXI. —There shall be three auditors—two chosen by the*
members from their own body, who shall not be at the same
time members of the council, and one chosen by the mem¬
bers of the council from the council. These shall audit the
treasurer’s accounts, and report thereon to the April ordinary
general meeting, and the report shall be presented at the anni¬
versary meeting. The auditors shall be empowered to examine
into the particulars of all expenditure of the funds of the
Association where they shall see occasion; and may report their
opinion upon the whole or any part of it, whether it has
been expended in accordance with the constitution of the
Association.
XXII. —Every paper presented for reading to the Associa¬
tion shall (unless in special cases) be received upon the under¬
standing that it becomes the absolute property of the Associa¬
tion, subject, however, to the condition that if the council shall
not, within three months after application has been made to
them to that effect, undertake to publish the same within a
further period of three months, then, and in such case, the
right of publication shall revert to the author.
XXIII.—Every person who shall give or bequeath property
or funds to the Association, shall be recorded as a benefactor,
and his name shall be read at the next annual general
meeting.
XXIV.—The property of the Association shall be vested in
three trustees, chosen by the members. The trustees shall be
eligible to any other office in the Association.
XXV.—INTEEPEETATION CLAUSE.
In the interpretation of these presents the following words and expres¬
sions shall have the following meanings, unless excluded by the context:—
“ Association ” means “ The British National Association of Spiritualists.”
“ These presents ” means and includes these and any other regulations of
the Association, for the time being in force.
“ Member ’’ means the duly registered annual contributor to the funds of
the Association of 5s. and upwards.
“ Honorary or corresponding member ” means a person who, being dis¬
tinguished for his services in connection with Spiritualism, has been
elected by the council, an honorary or corresponding member.
“Council” means the president, and vice-presidents, and the council
for the time being, and ex-officio members thereof, or, as the case may be,
the whole, or any part of the same assembled at a council meeting.
“Secretaries,’’ “treasurer,” and “auditors" mean those respective
officers, from time to time, of the association.
“ Property ” means everything of which the association is at any time
possessed, except funds.
“Funds” means, all moneys given to the association other than the
annual or compounded contributions of members.
“ Trustees ” means the members in whom the property of the associa¬
tion is vested.
“Annual general meeting,” or “anniversary,” means the meeting of the
association held annually in May, to receive the report of the council, &c.
“ Ordinary general meetings ” means the meetings of members fixed for
the months of January, April, July, and October, respectively.
“Special general meeting” means a meeting of members specially
summoned.
Words importing the singular number only, include the plural and vice
versa.
Words importing the masculine gender only, include the feminine.
Messes. Teubnee and Co. have in preparation a work
entitled Threading my Way: Twenty-seven Years of Auto¬
biography, by Mr. Eobert Dale Owen.
Me. Joseph Caetweight, sen., of Attwell House, Att-
well-road, Peekham, contributed to the Peekham Times of
Nov. 1st an interesting letter on Spiritualism, and the mani¬
festations witnessed by a private circle of inquirers.
Next Thursday evening a paper on Certain Problems
connected with Mediumship will be read by Mr. W. H. Harri¬
son, before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Sunday Lectuee Society.—Mr. W. H. Domville,
15, Gloucester-crescent, Hyde-park, W., is honorary treasurer
of the Sunday Lecture Society, formed to provide for the
delivery of lectures in the metropolis, and to encourage the
delivery elsewhere of lectures on science—physical, intellec¬
tual and moral—history, literature, and art, especially in their
bearing upon the improvement and social well-being of man¬
kind. Under the auspices of this society, Dr. Carpenter re¬
cently lectured on “The Brain” at St. George’s Hall. Next
Sunday Dr. G. G. Zerffi will speak there, at four o’clock, on
“ Egypt and Chronologists.” Professor W. K. Clifford re¬
cently lectured before the society on “ Atoms; being an ex¬
planation of what is definitely known about them.”
408
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 21, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN FINSBURY.
On Thursday night last week, the adjourned debate on
Spiritualism and its phenomena, came off before the Society
« connected with South-place Chapel, Finsbury. Mr. H. K.
Moore presided.
OBJECTIONS TO SPIBITUALISH.
Mr. C. B. Grant, who opened the discussion, began by saying
that Spiritualists were bad witnesses. They were dogmatic,
they were all split up among themselves, they were prone to
exaggeration, and all these peculiarities had been illustrated
at the last meeting in that place. He could not give any very
decided opinion of his own on the subject, but at present he
thought that the matter should be investigated as suggested
by Lord Lytton, in his letter to the Dialectical Society. Lord
Lytton wrote to the society as follows :—
“ I should say that if any number of sound-thinking persons
wish to investigate these phenomena, they should commence
by dismissing all preconceived judgments, and in a temper
utterly free from credulity; and, above all, be very careful
not to jump to the conclusion that spirits of another world
are concerned in the matter. They who adopt that opinion
stop all genuinely scientific inquiry, and are apt to be led
into very dangerous and mischievous errors of conduct. They
are deceived into believing that they hear predictions and
receive counsels from beings wiser than themselves, and,
acting accordingly, may readily be duped into disgrace and
ruin. I have known such instances.
“ It is now as in the days of Mediaeval witchcraft, in which
the supposed fiends juggled and betrayed the invoker; where
one truth is announced through these abnormal media, 100
lies are uttered ; people are, as in dreams, apt to remember
the truth and forget the lies. And as to the responses ob¬
tained, emanating from wiser intellects than are vouchsafed
to the living, it is noticeable that triviality and inanity are
the prevalent characteristics of the revelations, and not one
thought has been put forth by them which was not in the world
before.
“ To those who believe that they are conferring with the
spirits of the dead, I would only say,' Let them be as rigid
in their cross-examination of these pretended souls departed
as they would be in that of a claimant of their property on*
the ground of identity with some heir-at-law long missing,’
and the communicants will soon break down, and be con¬
demned as impostors by any practical jury.
* “ The word ‘ Spiritualism ’ in itself should not be admitted
in rational inquiry. Natural agencies are apparent in all the
phenomena (at least so far as I have witnessed them) ascribed
to spirits.”
Mr. Luttman said that he had had very little experience in
Spiritualism, but that little was quite enough for him. He
(Mr. Luttman) went one evening to a meeting of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, where, after a few
preparatory mysteries, such as singing and reading a muti¬
lated chapter from the Bible, the lights were turned down.
They sat round a very light table, so light that a mouse
crawling under it would have moved it; it oscillated cer¬
tainly, and signalled “ yes ” and “ no ” in answer to ques¬
tions, but nothing intelligible came from it. Somebody
present remarked that they rarely had good manifestations
unless a professional medium were present. Then the seance
was discontinued. In the conversation which'followed, they
told him it was a common thing for clairvoyants to see things
occurring many miles away. He replied that he had often
heard of such things, and wanted to know where he could go
to see a clairvoyant ? After some hesitation, they told him
that Mr. Forster, of New York, was an excellent clairvoyant ?
But did they think he was going to New York to be made a
fool of ? The only other occasion on which he attended a
seance was at a meeting in a place like a cellar, near Ball’s-
pond, where Mr. Owen lectured. A Mr. Webster, he thought,
was the so-called medium, and all he could say about him was
that he (Mr. Luttman) hoped that if Mr. Webster were present
at that meeting, he had washed himself since he saw him
last, for he was then in such a state that they ought to have
dragged him through a horse-trough. (Uproar.)
Mr. Owen rose, and said that when he came to that meeting
he believed he was coming among gentlemen. He insisted
upon the expressions just uttered being recalled.
Another person rose, and asked that Mr. Owen should be
requested to leave the room.
In the midst of the confusion, Mr. Owen rose again, and
said that if the society permitted such language, and did not
demand it should be recalled, what sort of people must the
members of the society be ?
Mr. Moncure D. Conway said that Mr. Owen was naturally
angered—(hear, hear)—by hearing words which he (Mr.
Conway) thought had been honestly spoken, but were not
such, he thought, as they could altogether approve. But
unless such words were absolutely censurable, the matter
should be left to the audience. He did not exactly see that it
was a case where the chairman could interfere, though that
was a matter on which the chairman himself must decide.
Perhaps it was was well that such critical remarks should be
avoided. (Hear, hear.)
The Chairman said that he thought Mr. Luttman had com¬
mitted an error in taste in speaking of a personal peculiarity
(laughter), but that the expression did hot call for any inter¬
ference from the chair.
Another person rose, and insisted that the expressions
should be retracted.
As the chairman would not insist upon the withdrawal of
the expression, Mr. Glendinning rose and left the building.
Mr. Luttman then went on to review Mr. Guy Bryan’s
paper, and added that Spiritualism had its origin In the idle
curiosity common to the lower orders, who often attempted to
find out what was in the hereafter. Spiritualism was an
extraordinary monstrosity, and the worst of all human super¬
stitions and errors. The silliness of Spiritualism was not
denied, even by its own advocates.
MISS LOTTIE EOWEEK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Stephen s said that he was once a Calvinist, and that it
was hard work to bring anybody out of the darkness and
superstition of Calvinism. He was originally a teacher in
a Sunday-school, and, after hearing of Spiritualism, he gave
four evenings a week for twelve months, without being
thoroughly convinced, so he had gained more experience on
the subject than those who had devoted only one or two
evenings to it. He did not go to paid mediums, but at one of his
first seances the messages told him things which had really
occurred in the past, and which were not known at the time
to himself. He at first thought this might be clairvoyance.
He had several seances with Miss Lottie Fowler, and had
about half-a-dozen tests given him each evening. When he
first met her, she had never heard his name before ; she had
just arrived from America, and he was a stranger to her. She
came up to him in the trance state, and said, “ William wishes
to speak to you.” He replied, “ Who’s he ? ” She said, “ He
is a brother of yours.” He replied, “ He is not. I never had
a brother William.” He thought she was guessing, so he
questioned her on the point, but she stuck fast to her text.
She gave the circumstances of his death, and the date of his
death, which was said to have occurred eight years before he
(Mr. Stephens) was born. He then remembered that he had
been told of a brother of his who died about the time stated,
so he went to a surviving brother, and asked him questions on
the subject. He then discovered that not only were all the
particulars true which Lottie Fowler had told him, but that
she had revealed more facts to him than were known to his
surviving brother. Now this could not have been thought¬
reading, for when Lottie Fowler made the revelation, he was
thinking of another brother. Moreover, she told him things
not in his own mind. This did not prove to him that
Spiritualism was true, but it aroused his curiosity very much.
Lottie Fowler also told him he had a wife living some
distance in the country, which was true ; and she actually
described his house and furniture ; she also told him that his
wife was suffering from a sore throat, which he did not know
to be the case at the time, but which he afterwards discovered
to be true. The Rev. Mr. Alsop, of High Holborn, and
another friend of his from Eastcheap, were with him at the
time. Other persons present had evidence of the same kind.
One was told of the death of a child, and Lottie Fowler re¬
peated a verse which the little boy had learnt before his
death ; she also told the parents how his father used to give
him medicine with a spoon. Another time Lottie Fowler
came to him at Ball’s Pond, and in the trance she gave him the
name of a friend of his ; the name was John Williams, and she
said that a scaffolding had just fallen on him and killed him.
John Williams was then in New York, and he (Mr. Stephens)
could scarcely believe the revelation she made, but a fortnight
afterwards a letter came from America proving she had stated
the truth. (Applause.)
Mr. Thompson asked if Mr. Stephens were a medium ?
Mr. Stephens; Yes.
Nov. 21, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
409
ARCHBISHOP WHATELT AND SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Herbert Noyes said that the gentlemen who had made
such bitter attacks on believers in spiritual phenomena re¬
minded him of the Eastern monarch who ordered a man to
execution because he alleged that in his country water some¬
times became solid. (Applause.) Mr. Serjeant Cox, who
broached the psychic force theory, did not account for the in¬
telligence which governed his psychic force. He (Mr. Noyes)
believed that nearly all the actions of our lives, whether
physical or intellectual, were performed by the agency of this
same “ psychic force” as the agent of the will, though pro¬
bably several subtle fluids or emanations combined to make
up what was now known under that name. It was but a new
synonym for the old force of Reichenbach and the animal and
vital magnetism and animal electricity of mesmerists, which
have never yet been satisfactorily distinguished from it. If
they were distinct forces or fluids, they were as intimately
allied and blended as magnetism and electricity, and he was
satisfied that the study of mesmerism was the key to the
study of Spiritualism. A relative of his own, the late Arch¬
bishop Whately, was for many years a patron of the Mesmeric
Institutions in London and Dublin, and he had heard from
his own lips that he had cured by mesmerism a woman who
had been blind for some twenty years, whom he had mes¬
merised for severe headache, without any expectation of re¬
storing her sight. Her blindness, no doubt, resulted from
paralysis of the optic nerve. The Archbishop also told him
that he had been first convinced of the truth of mesmer¬
ism from trying its effects upon his horses, who could have
entered into no conspiracy to deceive him. He (Mr. Noyes)
held in his hand a letter from Mrs. H. Senior, an intimate
friend of his Grace’s, who said, “In the year 1864, a few days
before the death of my brother-in-law, Mr. Nassau Senior, I
had a seance with Mrs. A , during which I had this mes¬
sage from my (spirit) husband, ‘ Tell Nassau that the White
Bear comes to him.’ When I asked who is the White
Bear ? I was told that it was the pet name of the
late Archbishop of Dublin when he was at Oxford.
When I returned home I told my brother-in-law ;
but his memory was failing, and he did not seem to remember
it, though his wife did. But, anxious for a further test, I
wrote to Dr. Hind, late Bishop of Norwich, who I knew had
been one of the Archbishop’s most intimate friends at Oxford,
asking if he remembered the name. Instead of writing, he
came to me, and taking me by both hands, said, “ Oh, Mrs.
Senior, I cannot tell you the memories your note has roused.
Yes, he was called the ‘ White Bear,’ and I was called ‘ Black
Sam;’ and when I walked with him in the Quadrangle, they
used to say, ‘ There goes Black Sam and his White Bear.’ ” I
considered this the most perfect test of (spirit) identity I had
ever received. Mr. Noyes added that Mrs. H. Senior was a
sister-in-law of Mr. Nassau Senior, and on most intimate
terms with Archbishop Whateley, who listened with the
greatest interest to all her experiences in Spiritualism, and
entirely believed in them, accepting her testimony, because he
was able to judge of her capacity for observation, as he would
have accepted it on any other subject. Mr. Noyes continued
that with reference to his own personal experience, he had
certainly heard Spiritualism spoken of as a wicked imposture,
when the Davenports were in England, but had never even
gone to see them, believing what the newspapers said without
investigation. He was then like most other people, who,
though they professed to believe the Bible, had no real
belief in the Spiritualism embodied in it. His attention was
first called to the subject as one deserving of serious investiga¬
tion about two years ago, by a Frenchman at a table d'hote—
a man whose face beamed with honesty, and who related
that he had been with an intimate friend to a seance, at
which a brother of his, whom he believed to be alive and
well at the camp at Chalons, had come and announced his
own death, and subsequently given information which had
led to the discovery of his body, buried in an unknown
grave. In answer to further inquiries, his French ac¬
quaintance had told him that the spirits taught a
new religion—pure Monotheism—which he would find
set forth in Allan Kardec’s Livre des Esprits. Mr.
Noyes said that he was already disposed to accept this
teaching, and that when he had read Kardec’s book he came
to the conclusion that his philosophy was most interesting
and noteworthy whether it were taught by spirits or not,
and he had ever since diligently studied the subject. He had
had large experience in private circles during these two
years, and within the last two months he had himself become
a drawing and writing medium, and had received most
remarkable messages through his own hand. The first spirits
who had communicated with him had given the names of'two
uncles, William and Richard Whately, and when he was dis¬
satisfied with the communications of the latter, he had been
told that he was a Richard Whately, of Roehampton, who
died in 1786, and who had been an uncle of the Archbishop,
of whom he had never heard. William Whately, when asked
for a test of his identity, had recalled the fact that he (Mr.
Noyes) had been brought to visit him at his house at Plain-
field, when he was a little child, just put into boy’s dress, and
that he had been very angry with his uncle for laughing at
him in his new costume ; and he had a distinct recollection
of the visit in question, but nevertheless admitted that the ques¬
tion of spirit identity was often a very difficult one to decide,
in consequence of the pranks of personating spirits.
Mr. Noyes then proceeded to read an extract from some
long messages he had received from other old friends of his
own, written through his own hand, entirely without his own
volition. He had received the first intimation of the presence
of this friend, W. H. Blaauw, through his own hand, after a
seance at Mrs. Gregory’s; and as he had been blind and
paralytic for several years before his departure, he asked him
to give his experiences of those sad years.
He replied—“‘W. H. B. will: lie was in the most dismal state of widow¬
less misery in the world.”
Mr. Noyes—I am sorry to hear it. What was his experience of departing
this life ?
W. H. B's experience was as followsHe was in the little room on the
first floor of the house at Beechlands, and in the bed which he was in the
habit of occupying, and he was in the act of waking up to a better state of
existence, when he was suddenly put out of his misery by a fall from his bed.
Js that rightly written ?
It is not. It is not.
Please correct the error.
He was in the act of making his exit from the world of misery into a
better state of existence, when his misery was suddenly cut short by a fall
from his bed. and he found himself outside his body, in a new one which
was a great deal better than the old one.
And what did he think had happened 7
He thought that he was in a dream.
And what caused him to realise the truth ?
He suddenly began to feel very much inclined to put on his clothes, and
then he found he could not touch them.
What did he think or do then 7
He then thought that he was dead.
And what did he do 7
He then thought he would put on his spirit clothes, which were ready
for him by his side.
That is one of the great puzzles to our materialisis and modem philosophers.
How are they made 7 Are there tailors in the spirit world, and manufacturers
of cloths and muslins 7
W. H. B. is not allowed to say.
When he found that he was dead, was he conscious of the presence of the
mourners 7
W. H. B. was conscious of the presence of his wife and son, W. H. Gr.
Blaauw, and the family of his daughter, Mrs. 0., who were in the room where
he was lying. He was in the act of walking up to the youngest daughter
of Mrs. 0., when he was suddenly arrested by the touch of a spirit hand,
which was that of his late father in the flesh, William Henry B., who died
in the parish of Wellington, in the county of Somerset, in the year 1816.
Mr. Noyes added that he had not yet ascertained whether
the father died at the time and in the place mentioned in the
message; all he knew was, that the message was given
through his own hand, by some power not his own, and that
many of the facts mentioned were quite outside his own cog¬
nizance, but blended with many he well knew to be true.
Mr. W. Tebb said that once he argued Spiritualism to be a
re-hash of old superstitions which ought to be put down. He
had found out since that Spiritualism could not be put down,
and although Spiritualists had much folly and nonsense in their
ranks, it should be remembered that they had not a monopoly
of those characteristics. (Hear, hear.) At the last meeting
two speakers alluded to the Davenport Brothers ; the mani¬
festations in their presence might appear to be foolish and
puerile. When Faraday made any new discovery in science
he would often go round and tell his friends about it. They
sometimes said to him, “ What is the use of it ?” Faraday
replied, “ Wait a bit, and we will find some use for it.” The
same might be said of the Davenport manifestations. He
(Mr. Tebb) had seen the Davenport Brothers several times,
sometimes under strict test conditions. He would tell them
that the phenomena were unmistakeable. One day he and
another gentleman were elected by the audience to go and tie
the Davenport Brothers.
The Chairman said, “ Did you know the other person who
did the tying?”
Mr. Tebb replied that he did not, but that he stated he was
a medical man, and that he did not know the Davenport
Brothers. He tied the brothers as firmly as a man possibly
could have tied them, and much firmer than he (Mr. Tebb)
could have tied them. Moreover, to make sure, some mem¬
bers of the audience came upon the platform and carefully
410
THE SPIRITUALIST.
examined the tying, and said they were satisfied with it.
After the Brothers were tied, he (Mr. Tebb) went into their
cabinet with them and stood between them all the time with
his hands on their shoulders, to make sure they did not do the
manifestations. The persons outside shut the doors, and
instantly afterwards the bolts of the doors were shot, without
anybody touching them. They were common bolts, without
springs, and directly the doors were closed the whole of the
inside of the cabinet seemed full of life and motion, the
musical instruments flying about in all directions. One of
them was placed on his head, several of them were played
upon, and some of them were projected through the window
of the cabinet on to the platform outside. Instantly the
doors were opened, and the Brothers were found bound just as
at first, and he (Mr. Tebb) declared that they had never
moved all the time. They did not do the manifestations, but
the manifestations were done in their presence. In Liverpool
the mob smashed the cabinet to pieces, and no apparatus was
found concealed about it. In Paris the Davenport Brothers
performed before Napoleon III; the successor of Hondiu, the
conjurer, was present; also M. Bice, the most distinguished
manufacturer in the world of conjuring apparatus. The
latter had given a written certificate that he could find
nothing to justify suspicion in the construction of the cabinet
of the Davenport Brothers.
Mr. Moncure D. Conway said that he had positive evidence
that when he assisted to tie the Davenport Brothers, the
other person who assisted in the tying, and who said he did
not know them, was seen to speak to them and deliver letters
to them behind the scenes.
Mr. Tebb continued that some time ago he visited New Jersey,
and a lady—not a professional medium—went into the trance
condition, described his mother and her features, and repeated
some verses which he (Mr. Tebb) had known twenty years
before. She also said, “ Though I walk through the valley of
the shadow of death I will fear no evil.” These, said Mr.
Tebb, were the last words his mother uttered. This seance
took place in America, and his mother died in England. Never¬
theless this did not convince him of Spiritualism. It took many
years to convince him, and he thought that it was unbecoming
that persons who had,given but slight attention to the subject
should treat Spiritualists as fools. Scientific men did not deal
fairly with the subject. The professors at Harvard University
in America, including the learned Professor Agassiz, once
undertook to test the reality of the manifestations which oc¬
curred in the presence of the Davenport Brothers ; they also
promised to publish a report of what they witnessed. It was
in evidence that certain phenomena took place in their pre¬
sence, but from that day to this they had never published
their promised report, although during the last ten years
they had been applied to several times for it. The Dar¬
winians were so much interested in every little fact tending to
throw light on the question'where man comes from, that he
wondered why scientific men did not try to find out where man
is going to.
DARK SEANCES.
Mr. Moncure D. Conway then rose and read a report of a
seance at which he and others had been present. He said
that after the last meeting of the society, he told Mr. Shorter
that, notwithstanding all his previous failures in Spiritualism,
he was willing to try again, consequen,tly was asked to go to a
dark seance at Mr. Guppy’s house. He (Mr. Conway) ex¬
pressed a wish that as it was to be in the dark, anything that
spirits might be supposed to bring into the room might be too
large to have been concealed in the room previously. He re¬
quested also to be allowed to bring a friend with him, and
the permission being granted, he took with him Mr. W. K.
ClifEord, Professor of ALpplied Mathematics at University Col¬
lege. The seance took place on the 6th of November, 1873.
Among those present were Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, Miss Hough¬
ton, Mr. Crawford, Mrs. Fisher, Mr. Tebb, Mr. Yolckman,
and Mr. T. Shorter. The room was completely examined by
Professor ClifEord, Mr. Crawford, and himself. They also
examined the table. Mrs. Guppy sat between Professor
ClifEord and himself. They were satisfied that her hands and
feet did not move all through the seance. The door was
locked by Mr. Crawford, and the key given to Mr. Conway.
All present joined hands, and the lights were put out. They
were then asked to wish that spirits would bring certain things
into the room. Mr. Conway wished for a band-box, Mrs.
Fisher wished for sausages, and Mrs. Guppy for a roast
potato. (Laughter.) After a time things were heard falling
on the table. When a light was struck, a herring, an onion,
a carrot, a nail, a string of sausages, and other things—
Nov. 21, 1873.
(Laughter)—were found upon the table. The lights were
again put out, and Mrs. Fisher complained that her chair was
being drawn from under her. Soon afterwards it was thrown
on the table. Afterwards raps told them to go to tea. After
tea the company re-assembled, but before that Miss Houghton
and Mrs. Fisher were compelled to return home. The rest of
the company sat around the table as before, holding each
other’s hands, but nothing occurred. After reading his report,
Mr. Conway added that both Mr. and Mrs. Guppy seemed to
think very little of the seance, and he (Mr. Conway) thought
it to be absolutely worthless. There was nothing on the table
which could not have been thrown there by any designing per¬
son, and although he had no reason to suppose anybody present
to be designing, it was absolutely worthless for any purposes
connected with that meeting. His band-box was not thrown
on the table. Only those things which had been asked for by
Mrs. Fisher and Mrs. Guppy were thrown upon the table. At
other times he had met most of the other persons spoken of as
good mediums. He had met Forster who, it was said, could
reveal writing enclosed in sealed envelopes, but who could not
read any for him. Once he was chaffed in company by many
mediums, where about ten or twenty of them were present.
He took out his purse and said to them, “ If you will tell me
how much money is in that purse I will spend the rest of my
life in investigating Spiritualism.” After a time a lady said
spirits impressed her to inform him that there were seven¬
teen ” pieces of money in the purse. He took them out and
there were twenty-nine. Did Mr. Noyes know that the late
Archbishop Whately was a Spiritualist ? Was he certain that
the medium of whom he had spoken did not know that Dr.
Whately was called the White Bear ?
Mr. Noyes said he was sure she did not know it. He knew
her. She was the wife of an eminent physician.
The Chairman asked how he (Mr. Tebb) knew that his
colleague could tie the Davenport Brothers better than himself,
his colleague being a stranger to him ?
Mr. Tebb replied that he himself was a poor hand at tying
knots. His colleague did it well, and was a man not chosen
by the Davenports, but elected by the audience, who were
satisfied with him.
Mr. W. Volckman asked Mr. Conway if any of the articles
mentioned by him could have been thrown upon the table by
persons who had their hands held ?
Mr. Conway replied that they could not have thrown them
at the moment their hands were held, but he must remind
those present that evidence taken in the dark was not evi¬
dence at all. (No, No!) He did not wish to affix any stigma
upon anybody present at the seance ; he should be sorry to
say anything to wound the feelings of anybody; he would
merely say there was nothing which could in the slightest
degree be accepted as evidence.
Mr. Volckman said that the holding of hands was one of
those points which should be cleared up. Accordingly, he
had endeavoured to supply an omission in the report. He held
in his hand two depositions made by the two ladies who left
after the first part of the seance. Mrs. Fisher deposed that
during the time that the manifestations occurred, her hands
were held by Mr. Guppy on one side and Miss Houghton on
the other, and were so held while her chair was placed on the
table. Miss Houghton deposed that her hands were held by
Mrs. Fisher on one side and Mr. Conway on the other. Mr.
Volckman added that these depositions supplied the missing
links which he thought ought to have been supplied in the
report. Mr. Conway had said that he wished something
large to be brought. He (Mr. Volckman) had recently had a
curious experience in that respect, which he would not
attempt to explain, but would merely state the fact. He was
requested to wish something to be brought into the room, and
the moment before he asked for it, he himself did not know
what he should ask for. But he suddenly decided upon a
sunflower, and in less than ten seconds a great sunflower
plant, with about a bushel of dirt about its roots, was placed
upon the table. He would not go into this matter theoreti¬
cally, he would simply state the fact.
Mr. Conway said it was painful for him to pursue the
matter, but during one of the seances Mrs. Fisher mentioned
she had only taken her hand away to get her handkerchief.
Mr. Volckman replied, that her deposition said that
“ during the time the manifestations occurred ” her hands
were held. It was true at another time her hands were dis¬
joined for one moment, after asking permission.
Mr. Percy Hickson said, that after practice for a week, he
would undertake to place sausages on the table with his feet,
but he would say nothing further on that point, as he did not
THE SPIRITUALIST.
411
Nov. 21j 1873.
wish to talk about a seance at which he was not present. He
then described a seance at Nice, at which he was present. An
alleged spirit, who professed to be the late Lord Clyde, com¬
municated through table motions. Lord Clyde’s message
was to the effect that “ they were always to do their duty,” or
something of that sort. It was very curious that Lord Clyde
should come to a little party at Nice to make a commonplace
remark of that kind. He could not tell how the table was
moved ; if it was not moved by the medium’s feet it might
have been moved by psychic force. It was a most unreason¬
able subject, and he had dismissed it from his attention.
PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTIONS TO SPIKITHALISM.
Mr. F. H. Levy, one of the members of the Dialectical
Society, said that he thought not much could be gained by
the present method of discussing the subject. He had
taken the chair at the Dialectical Society when Dr. Cameron
read a paper upon Spiritualism. He (Mr. Levy) then told
them that they were at issue on questions of fact, which
could not be decided by talking, and could be decided only
by practical experiment. Then the Dialectical Society ap¬
pointed a committee, which threw much light upon the
matter. During the investigation he met with many Anti¬
spiritualists, who behaved in a very unreasonable way, but
the Spiritualists acted with marked fairness, and there was no
fault to find with them. But once upon a time a man who
painted a sign for a village inn depictured an angel in boots,
and on being asked, “Why he did so ?” he replied, “Who ever
saw an angel without boots?” (Laughter.) So when he (Mr.
Levy) was told that spirits brought sausages, all he could reply
was that he had no evidence whether it was a sensible action
on the part of spirits or not. He knew nothing about spirits.
Mr. Conway had told them he had asked for a bandbox, and
if it had been brought in, he (Mr. Levy) would not have
believed it was brought by spirits, unless they could prove
that it was not brought in by human beings. He would not
say “ it was contrary to the laws of nature,” for he did not
know all the laws of nature. He had seen tables moving
without the persons present touching them ; the cause of the
motion he did not understand, but the onus rested with
Spiritualists to prove that spirits did it. There was a great
logical chasm between a table moving and a spirit moving it.
One scientific gentleman had told him it would be necessary
to knock over the law of causation in expounding spiritual
phenomena, but upon the law of causation all our reason was
based. Scientific men were placed in an irrational posi¬
tion by denying that certain things could happen. They
should, at all events, deny nothing. All he said was
that he waited for evidence, and if he saw phenomena he
was not bound to come to a conclusion about them im¬
mediately. The magnetic needle pointed to the north ; he
could not explain why, nor could any scientific man ; in like
manner, he did not see that they were bound to give an ex¬
planation of spiritual phenomena. He .hoped that in that
place, at all events, the Spiritualists would have a fair hear¬
ing. Signor Damiani, in his evidence before the Dialectical
Society, said:—
“ I know a remarkable case in point connected with Dr.
Livingstone. You will remember that for a period of some
two years it was supposed that Dr. Livingstone was dead. I
went to a seance at Mrs. Marshall’s, and I asked, ‘ Is the
spirit of Dr. Livingstone here ?’ A spirit answered, * Yes, I
am Dr. Livingstone 1’ I then asked him how he had been
killed, and he related all the particulars. He said that a
native had crept up behind him, and given him a blow of a
club on the back of the head, and killed him outright at once.
I asked what happened then, and the spirit said that the
savages boiled his body and ate it. I said, ‘ That was horrible!
You must have been greatly horrified by your body being
boiled and eaten.’ He said,1 No, I was not horrified at it, for we
must all be eaten.’ Well, as you may imagine I was greatly
struck by this. I wrote out an account of Livingstone’s
death, and of his body being boiled and eaten, and I enclosed
it in a paper, and gave it to a gentleman, with injunctions
that he should keep it, and only open it when I should tell
him, on the discovery of the fact of the doctor’s fate. But
we all know that Livingstone was not killed at all, and that
the spirit was simply lying.”
The chairman of the committee then said to Signor Damiani,
“ How can you distinguish between a medium who is an
impostor and a spirit that is a liar ?” Signor Damiani re¬
plied, “You can’t distinguish ; but in that case it was the
spirit that was lying.” Mr. Levy added that for a man to say
one cannot tell the difference between the two, and in the
same breath add that “there was a difference,” was a most
illogical thing. He (Mr. Levy) once went to Mrs. Marshall’s,
and took with him a name written inside an envelope, which
the unseen intelligence present was asked to read: The
message was given—“William Joseph Basset.” The first and
the last of these names were right, but he was not sure at the
time about the “Joseph he had written inside the envelope
“ William J. Basset.” On inquiry afterwards he found out that
the word “ Joseph ” was wrong. Now it was a remarkable thing
that what was within his own knowledge was revealed to him
without error at Mrs. Marshall’s seance^ but that where it'
passed beyond the bounds of his own knowledge it was
wrong. It was curious, too, that the spelling of the spirits
was like the spelling of the medium. One thing was certain,
that spiritual manifestations were not imposture. They
were the result of nervous disease, and a medical friend of his
said that mediums were fit candidates for Hanwell. (A Voice:
That is an insulting observation.) Mr. Levy continued that
he must speak the truth. There was a certain vacant stare on
the countenances of these people, which he thought might be
found in those places where nervous diseases wei?e treated.
Many who laughed at Spiritualists had no reason to do so, for
they believed the very same things about spirits, not on the
testimony of their own observation, but on the testimony of
old books and documents. Spiritualism had been rising very
much of late, but he thought it was the second childhood of
supernaturalism, which implied nearly approaching death.
MB. ANDBEW LEIGHTON’S EXPEEIENCES.
Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool, said he began to in¬
vestigate Spiritualism from a thoroughly physical stand-point.
Years ago he studied anatomy, and dissected many brains of
animals of all kinds, and concluded that the mind was nothing
more than a function of the brain. From that position it was
not likely that he should infer that spirits could move tables.
(Hear, hear.) Afterwards he studied mesmeric phenomena
both in America arid Liverpool, and he pursued the matter for
five years. He had met with cases of sympathy of taste. On
his tasting substances in his mouth, his sensitives could taste
the same thing, and even flavours which the taster could not
discriminate.himself. He could not give all his experiments
on this head in the short time allotted to each speaker. He
had witnessed and verified nearly all the phenomena of
Spiritualism. They were fugitive in their nature ; the human
organism being a complicated one. The conditions were con¬
stantly varying, and inquirers necessarily must have many
failures. But a thousand failures would* not overcome one
fact. One fact was worth ten thousand of the trumpery
things which they had heard from superficial enquirers that
evening. (Applause.) Once he went to a seance at a house in
Bayswater, where Mr. D. D. Home was the medium ; while
only the tips of their fingers were upon it, and all the pres¬
sure was of course downwards, the table rose eight or ten
inches from the floor and floated in the air. This was in the
light. Next a “ what-not ” laden with music-books and
other things travelled by itself from one part of the
room to the back of a person sitting near the table.
Mr. Home held an accordion by one hand, the keys
being downwards near the floor. He (Mr. Leighton) saw the
accordion rise and fall, and play the tune of “ Home sweet
home,” so there was artistic intervention there, which he
should like to see explained on the psychic-force theory. In
another case the slate was put under the table in the light.
They asked why the slate was put under the table at all, and
the reply was “ Because the action of the brains of the mortals
observing it, would interfere with the forces used.” They
might or might not accept that explanation, as they pleased.
But the pencil wrote three messages, arid one of them was:—
“And is this world of strife to end in dust at last ? ” All
these things proved that the mind was not a function of the
brain, but could act independently of man’s physical organisa¬
tion.
Mr. Clarence Sayler said that Mr. Pepper and his ghosts
could surpass all that had been told that evening, and Spirit¬
ualists cut away everything by which verification could be
effected. (No, no.) Spiritualism was an epidemic delusion.
It was one of those manias which walk the earth for a time,
and then die a natural death. The phenomena were all sub¬
jective. Had Dr. Carpenter’s tests ever been applied ?
A sepulchral voice exclaimed, “ Over and over again.”
(Laughter).
Mr. Shorter moved that the debate be adjourned for a
month. Mr. Grant seconded this.
A division, in which members only voted, took place, and
the adjournment was carried by a majority.
412
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Nov. 21,1873.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE SPIEITTTALISTS.
Sir,—From the tone of the leading article in your last
issue, I may reasonably infer that your mind is made up upon
the organisation question ; for, not only may organisation be
looked upon as the crown of development and symbol of unity
among individual Spiritualists, but, as you very wisely suggest,
it is a matter of urgent necessity that we should be prepared,
if necessary, to take united action against the whole host of
bigots, whose hostility will, in all likelihood, be intensified in
proportion to the increase in our numerical and political
power. Combination for purposes of self-protection is, in
short, imperative; and it is possible that Messrs. Burns
and Enmore Jones, whilst reaping the fruits of other
men’s disinterestedness,* may live to regret their petty
jealous endeavour to frustrate the accomplishment of our
grand design. They will yet, however, have an opportunity
of evincing a becoming regard for the general interests of our
glorious cause; for one of the most important clauses in the
rough draft of the constitution provides for the affiliation of
local and provincial societies, which may, at the same time,
preserve inviolate their own separate independent action, and
which may also each elect, from their own body, a representa¬
tive, who shall be an ex-officio member of the council. Thus
will the bond of union between the Central Board and other
societies scattered throughout all parts of the United King¬
dom, hay,'even the most distant portions of the British empire,
be firmly cemented, strengthened, and consolidated. By
this statesmanlike recognition of the great federal principle,
we shall at once secure all the solid advantages of a vigorous
centralisation, and the no less appreciable benefits of local
self-government. The Council, with its limited number of
elected, and necessarily indefinite enrolment of ex-officio
members, will be in the highest and noblest sense of the term,
imperial.
From what has been suggested in reference to contingent
dangers looming in the future, your readers will not be
surprised to hear that there is a general feeling in favour of
appointing a solicitor, into whose hands will fall all legal
business connected with the Association. Now, it is essential,
that the gentleman who may be entrusted with this, I might
almost say, solemn responsibility,' should be a man of good
social position and intellectual culture, and, above all, that
he should be gifted with a capacity for handling such diffi¬
cult legal questions as do hot come within the sphere of
ordinary office work. Such an one is Mr. Longcroft,
of 43, Lincoln’s - Inn - Fields, member of one of the
best London clubs, accustomed to frequent intercourse
on an equal footing with influential people, and a man who,
at a very early period of his career, has achieved a deservedly
high reputation for his ability in rescuing young spendthrifts
from the clutches of acute money-lenders. 1 have the honour
of being personally acquainted with Mr. Longcroft, but I can
assure the readers of this journal that I should be the last to
solicit the votes of the Council in his favour, unless I felt that
the Association could place implicit confidence in his energy,
enthusiasm, and what I may call prompt fighting power, in
case of any unforeseen and startling emergency. Though not
exactly a pledged Spiritualist, he is, nevertheless, deeply in¬
terested in the movement, and I have the highest authority
for stating that he is prepared to accept the post, if it be
offered to him. Trusting that you will kindly allow the inser¬
tion of this letter, so as to give the Council time for deliberation
respecting the alleged merits of this candidate for their suf¬
frages, who is, by the way, solicitor to the celebrated Artisans
and Labourers Dwellings Company.—I am, &c.,
James Thornton Hoskins.
Reform Club, Pall Mall.
P.S.—Members of the Council, who are prepared to support
Mr. Longcroft, are requested to communicate with the writer.
MRS. TAPP an’S MEDITTM SHIP.
Sir,—Your “ sensible, enlightened, and searching remarks ”
upon the inspirational scientific utterances of Mrs. Tappan
have met with cordial approval of more than one of your cor¬
respondents. But they, unlike yourself, are content to find
* Mr. Enmore Jones has not reaped the fruits of the disinterestedness of
others.—Ed.
fault and omit altogether to speak of how much there is to
commend in Mrs. Tappan’s singularly gifted powers as an
orator and a poetess.
Pointing out errors, if they really exist, in her discourses
(probably inspired by savans of a past generation) is all very
well, and it tends especially to show to the Tyndalls and Car¬
penters that some Spiritualists are not unacquainted with their
special studies, and are indeed their superiors, since they,
the savans, unfortunately for themselves, know nothing of
Spiritualism.
But is it generous, if your correspondents are really Spirit¬
ualists, to point out errors which this ,'gifted lady is made by
her teachers to utter, and remain entirely silent on the great
fact, which I and a multitude of her listeners attest, viz., that
she speaks extemporaneously, and without preparation, upon
a vast variety of subjects; subjects, too, which we can compre¬
hend, and, with an ease, fluency, and express fitness of lan¬
guage, altogether marvellous and unprecedented ? This being
so, may not the scientific errors which a few among us detect,
be most fairly subordinated to the majesty of the great blaze
of her inspired utterances; and thus help to raise and uphold
her influence with the masses of this country, and thereby
enable her to disseminate with freedom the great truth of
Spiritualism, of which she is one of the ablest exponents of
the world. Benj. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Nov. 15th, 1873.
[It is a public duty which cannot he shirked to point out the errors, be¬
cause men of science are publicly invited to the Wednesday evening lec¬
tures, and we assert, from intimate knowledge of the scientific world, that
the errors in elementary physics are so palpable, thatjeach meeting would
tend to prejudice scientific inquirers against the whole subject, and against
Spiritualists who accept and publish the said errors. A spiritual journal
is therefore bound, in the interests of the movement, to disown the
errors. .We cordially endorse all that Mr. Coleman says about Mrs.
Tappan’s inspirational abilities, but regret, as he does, that her Sunday
meetings are worked in such close alliance with trade interests.—Ed.]
THE LECTURE ON THE LOGIC OE SPIRIT.
Sir,—I really have nothing to say to Mr. Fitzgerald except
that I differ from him and the majority of the authors whom
he names. In one thing he is quite right, however, and he
need not be afraid to declare it boldly, for I shall never con¬
tradict him. I am a materialist in a platonic and philosophic
sense; a Spiritualist in a scientific sense, and I speculate upon
the “facts” up to date; and as far as my mind has been
educated to observe, analyse or comprehend the spirits and
phenomena now under discussion. I most humbly declare
that I know nothing more about spirit than I have said ; yet,
and it is not a sense of conceit which makes me say so, I think
I know just as much about the nature, quality, and parts of
the human spirit, as the great authors to whom our friend
has referred me. They do not know, any more than I, where
matter ends and spirit begins. They opine, so do I; but our
opinions are worthless without proof, and, I fear, this is not
possible, as science will not accept revelation for proof. I
have here, in the room in which I now write, a very great
number of most distinguished spirits (believe me or not—it
does not much matter) who declare that I am right in my
exposition of the “ Logic of the Spirit ”—that the material
and spiritual are inseparable, co-existent, and co-eternal; and
that my idea of the constitution of a human soul is as correct
as may be entertained by mortal. I shall be happy, however,
to go any reasonable distance in order to hear Mr. Fitzgerald
on the same subject when he takes the platform.
May I be allowed to add that I dissent in toto from the view
with which Mr. F. terminates his letter ? Herein he speaks
“ like a book,” authoritatively. I, myself, know nothing of
God—apart from the understanding and life of the human
soul. I hold with Plato and Jesus, the “ I and my Father are
one ” theory. I, moreover, do not believe that man ever was
made or created ; and as to man being the creature of God’s will
and his own at the same time, I frankly declare myself to be
the victim of a puzzle from which I can see no hopes of ex¬
trication. As well may I expect to find the operation and the
result the same were I to use two multipliers to one multi¬
plicand. And further, I do not believe in the image theory.
I can no more believe that God can be, or ever was imaged,
than I can believe that the world was made in six days; or
that the Maker ordained that one day should be held sacred,
thus profaning the remaining six; or that the meek Moses
ever severed the Red Sea in two halves with a wand. “ Is
this the psychology (demands Mr. F.) that is to guide Spirit¬
ualists to a right interpretation of the phenomena they
witness ?” I make answer, “ By no means.” I don’t guide;
TH:E SPIRITUALIST.
413
Nov. 21, 1873.
I speculate. And though he seems to cavil at my saying
“ the spirit of man is not, it would appear, a combination of
the chemical elements known to us,” 1 confess I fail to see the
objector’s point; and humbly want to know, does Mr. Fitz¬
gerald, or his authorities, know any more about the true con¬
stitution of the human soul, apart from revelation, than I
do. If so, I should presume that the editor of the Spiritualist
will be glad to give a prominent place in his journal to the
“ new light.”| Hugh M'Leod.
53, Great Goram-street, Russell-square,
Oct. 23, 1873.
madame Louise’s mediumship.
Sib,—Referring to the communication signed “ Christian
Reimers,” which appeared in the last issue of your valuable
paper, reporting a seance with Madame Louise, I am com¬
missioned by a committee of inquirers to offer Madame
Louise and her son any amount of money they may think
reasonable, if they will produce, under the same conditions,
the same or similar phenomena as those described by your
correspondent, at this address. Should Madame Louise’s
engagements be too numerous to permit her to come to
Liverpool, the gentlemen to whom I refer will be glad to visit
her in Manchester on condition that, in case of failure, Madame
Louise make a donation of £10 (ten pounds sterling) to the
publication fund of the Spiritualist.
As a guarantee of the genuineness of this offer, I append
the names and addresses of those in behalf of whom I write,
all being members of the Liverpool Psychological Society, one
acting as recording secretary of that body.
David B. Ramsay.
6, Stafford-street, Liverpool. 15th November, 1873.
William fcBrogden, 14, Mona-street; Robert Wood, 26,
Cable-street; John Fraser, 18, Spekefield Cottages; Samuel
Williams, 36, Spellow-lane, Liverpool.
[We have no desire to receive subscriptions to the Spiritualist fund in
consequence of the failures of any medium,—Ed.]
THE MYSTERY OE EDWIH BROOD.
Sib,—In your issue of Sept. 15th, you give an account of
certain writings professing to be a continuation of the tale of
Edwin Drood, left unfinished by Charles Dickens at the time
of his death. The narrative is taken from the Springfield
Daily Union, and is given, as I understand, for what it is
worth. The editor of the Springfield Daily Union evidently
wishes his readers to consider it genuine, and has added a few
criticisms to that end.
1st. He finds traveller spelt with two i’s, as is common in
England, but rare here. It is, however, common enough here
to deprive the argument of all weight; and, moreover, is one
of those known peculiarities which anyone wishing to disguise
American writing would be sure to adopt.
2nd. The use of the word coals for, coal is not sufficiently
un-American to afford evidence of any weight.
3rd. The use of the word servant is open to the same remark.
It would be adopted by anyone wishing to write so as to pro¬
duce the impression of English authorship.
4th. From an acquaintance with the topography of London
no argument can be drawn. London is nearly as familiar to
many Americans as is any one of their own great cities.
On the other hand, I have noticed in one column of your
extracts two strong peculiarities of American diction, not
likely to be used by any English writer.
1st. “ Coals were not plenty." The use of this word as an
adjective is common in colloquial discourse, but would scarcely
be admitted even here as correct in writing. It seems to
betray an imperfectly educated writer.
2nd, “ She reminded one of the walking beam of a steamer.”
No English writer could use such a Transatlantic figure as
this. Even if familiar himself with the peculiar construction
and appearance of American steeple-engines, in which the
great beam is in sight, and sways up and down above deck,
he would never employ it as a simile to enlighten or amuse
his readers.
Knowing that your object is to ascertain the truth, I make
no apology for this communication. E. W. C.
[On the one hand these just criticisms of a gentleman now travelling in
America have their weight. On the other, some genius akin to that of
Charles Dickens is clearly visible in the writings. Further, internal
evidence crops up, sufficient to lead experienced Spiritualists to suppose
that some Kind of genuine mediumship is at work. As an example, the
statement that the medium must sit alone in a room to write, may be
quoted. Dr. Dunn, who has just returned to America with Mr. Peebles,
was once a writing medium for proving spirit identity; he was obliged to
sit in a room “ by himself ’’ to get reliable messages. The gentleman through
whose mediumship the articles headed “ Spirit Teachings,” published in
this journal, are given, finds that he must sit by himself to get reliable
communications, or in a room where those present do not know what he is
doing, and -have not their thoughts concentrated upon him. If we were
compelled to give a casting vote in the Edwin Drood matter, we should be
inclined to say “ genuine,” partly because of internal evi< ence that real
mediumship seems to have something to do with the matter, and chiefly
because it is hard to suppose that a mortal gifted—as the writer certainly
is—with the ability of Charles Dickens, should voluntarily elect to come
before the world by the aid of imposture. Cannot “E. W. C.” inquire into
this case on the spot, and report ?—Ed.]
THE NERYOUS SYSTEM.
Ih the course of his recent lectures at St. George’s
Hall, Dr. Carpenter said, that the nature of the power
whereby the nerves call the muscles into action is akin
to electricity, as we know, because it is most easily
called out by electricity; as Galvani, by a very feeble
combination of metals, called out nerve-force from a
frog’s leg. This power is known only by its effects; it
is not actual electricity, although akin to it, for, were
it electricity, it could stimulate a dead muscle as well
as a living one, and that it cannot do, although a dead
nerve has the same structure as a living one. Another
proof that this power is not electricity is by the length
of time taken to produce the effect; a definite time is
required for the transmission of nervous force, which
electricity does not need. Another element of
nervous substance is the cellular or cortical element.
This red substance forms, as it were, the bark of the
brain on its convoluted surface ; it is only in the cere¬
brum that this cortical is outside ; in other parts this
cellular substance is inside. The ganglions, or knots
upon the nerve fibres, or the great knots that form
segments of the spinal cord, are of this component..
Ganglions are distributed throughout the body, along
the spine, two in the intestines, some in the head and
neck, and each of these several centres is an aggregation
of cells, sometimes with only two points, sometimes
with five or six radii. These cells are the centre of
nerve-power, and also the centre of growth. Enormous
supplies of blood go to these central masses; one-fifth
of the blood in the whole body goes to the brain, and of
that four-fifth’s, at least, go to the cortical and ganglionic
substance, which, though but a thin layer, receives in
fact one-sixth of the blood in the body. Nor is this a
cause for wonder when we see with the microscope the
wonderfully fine blood-vessels,most beautiful and minute,
that traverse it.
Great activity goes on between the blood and the
nerve-centres; for the nervous system grows by select¬
ing nutrition and regeneration from the blood, storing
up potential energy until needed; by day we call forth
this potential energy into active energy, and as we use
up emotional energy faster than it can be re-supplied,
the nervous system has to relapse into a quiescent con¬
dition (known as sleep) for the regeneration of nerve
matter used up. This regeneration is simply oxygena¬
tion, which involves the oxygenation of nerve matter.
There is no doubt that highly oxygenised blood is
necessary, for it is well known how bad air dulls
mental power, and an interrupted supply of oxygenised
blood ends nerve functions. In proof of this Sir A.
Cooper experimented on an animal in full vigour by
tying two of the four great arteries, thus diminishing
but not breaking the supply of blood to the brain.
He then pressed two of them, and the animal fell
as if shot with an utter abnegation of power of
brain. Thus also patients in hysteric coma will
become suddenly unconscious in the middle of a
sentence, and after remaining insensible for from
five to twenty minutes, arouse again, and com-
414
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 21, 1873.
plete the sentence; and Dr. Perrier, by compressing
two of the carotid arteries, fell asleep for two
minutes, and awoke believing he had slept two hours.
—The Examiner.
SUDDEN DEATH OF A SPIRITUALIST.
The following is from the Daily News of last
Monday :—
Birmingham, Sunday Night.
This evening, at the Athenasum Assembly Booms, Temple-
row, a Spiritualistic service was being held, and in the course
of it a medium named Benjamin Hawkes, a toy dealer of New-
street, |in this town, addressed the meeting. He spoke for
fully half-an-heur, appearing to ha in his usual health, and
then he described with startling vividity a seance in which
the Apostle Peter had manifested himself to the assembled
spiritists. Peter had clasped hands with him, and he (Hawkes)
felt the close pressure of the Apostle’s grasp. From this he
argued that it was quite possible to understand how Thomas of
Didymus thrust his hand into the side of “ the Personification
of Divine Love.” The instant these last words were out of
the speaker’s mouth he fell back on a chair behind him.
There was great excitement, for the meeting believed Hawkes
was under strong “ spirit control.” A few seconds elapsed, and
a surgeon came up to the medium, and found him dead. The
meeting broke up in wild confusion. Perhaps a more exciting
scene never occurred than the death of this man, with the
wild words of his fervent belief fresh on his lips.
It will be seen by the following letter from the
chairman of the meeting, that the preceding account is
entirely inaccurate. Mr. Hawkes was in his normal
state, and was not addressing the meeting as a trance
speaker. The chairman of the Birmingham Psycho¬
logical Society should send a brief resolution, passed by
the council, asking the London daily papers to correct
their erroneous statements.
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist.”
Sib,—I beg to forward you particulars of our friend Mr. B.
Hawkes’s passing away from us. On Sunday last we, as is
our custom, assembled in the Athenaeum Assembly-rooms,
and, as Mr. Collier was away in London, we had determined
upon holding an experience meeting, myself presiding. A
voluntary upon the harmonium was played by Miss Mercer,
after which “ Hand-in-hand with Angels ” was sung by the
assembly. I then related my experience during a portion of the
last nine years of my being a Spiritualist, recounting many
incidents of a personal character I had witnessed, and must
say it was listened to with marked attention, far different to
six or seven years ago, when such utterances met with the
sneer and hiss of the ignorant, or the “ won’t believe it,” of
the very wise ones. As chairman of the meeting I called upon
our friend Mr. Hawkes, a well-known tradesman of this town,
to address the meeting. He began by relating his experience at
my own house, eight years ago, then referred to his more recent
experiences in London; to his having seen and felt the em¬
bodied spirits. He said that he had taken hold of the hand of
a spirit, and the spirit had grasped his; that he had talked
with them, as “ I do with you; ” that on one occasion the
spirit Peter, with a light in his hand, held his face quite closely
to “ mine,” and said, “ Do you see me now ? ” and “ nobody
can describe the thrill that ran through me on that occasion.
He grasped my hand, and I the spirit’s.” After a few more
remarks of a startling character to the sceptics, he said, and
“ we shall know and see more soon.” He added “ that Jesus,
the personification of love, would soon be more appreciated
and more closely followed.” These were about his last words.
He then fell back upon the seat at my side. I caught him in
my arms; he sighed about three times, and appeared to gurgle
in the throat as if trying to speak; then all was over, on this
side. Oh, what a glorious transition was that 1 To pass away
so peacefully, so tranquilly. How I envied my dear friend
but I have work yet to do before I go hence. ;
The members of the congregation were panic stricken (as
the doctor came in), but they left very quietly indeed, although
some three or four ladies fainted. Mr. Hawkes was conveyed
to his residence, 13, New-street, and his widow said at once he
suffered much from heart disease. Therefore it was not so
unexpected.
The inquest I have this day attended to give evidence, and
the verdict is “ Died from syncope.” I will forward papers to¬
morrow, if possible, containing the account.
I feel greatly saddened, as I have known our friend for
twenty-five years, and since he became a Spiritualist, he has
worked in unison with me most earnestly and well; he was
one of my earliest converts of eight years ago, and frequently
did he refer to those early days of his investigation, under
difficulties, at my house.
A most earnest worker in Spiritualism in the Midland
Counties has passed away from our midst, to help us from the
other side. Aaron Fbanklin.
100, Suffolk-street, Birmingham, Nov. 18th, 1873.
Last Tuesday night an interesting seance with Miss
Florrie Cook took place at Mr. Luxmoore’s house, 16,
Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W. The author of Where are
the Dead ? and the medium authoress of Glimpses of a Brighter
Land, also Mr. B. Coleman, were present. The spirit Katie
wrote a message to the latter gentleman, for presentation to
Judge Edmonds, of New York.
British National Association of Spiritualists.—A
letter dated November 18th, from Mr. Blyton, secretary pro
iem. to the National Association, says :—“The next meeting
of the provisional council is summoned for Monday evening
next, 24th instant. A first issue of a large number of invita¬
tions has been sent out to representative Spiritualists, inviting
them to accept seats on the council, and the bulk of replies re¬
ceived by me up to the present time, are in the affirmative.”
Other invitations will be issued, including those to proposed
vice-presidents, and other officers.
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—On Sunday
evening last Mr. Kobert Harper delivered an address at
Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road; it was one of the regu¬
lar Sunday evening lectures given there in connection
with the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists. He
said Spiritualism was not merely a system of communica¬
tion between the living and the departed, but it had a
beautiful philosophy and a true science. In studying its
teaching he found that there is only one force in the universe
—the life current of God, who is at once the life and substance
of all that exists. The speaker believed in a grand panthe¬
ism, not the pantheism of the materialists, but that of Paul.
“ In Him we live and move and have our being.” Spiritual¬
ism was the science of the soul, and had taught him what
no books on physical science could do. It was able to
penetrate the region of our inner working, and to demonstrate
the true science of the conditions which control our mental
and moral being. The clairvoyant could show that many
persons inherited specific disease from their parents or an¬
cestors, and could often point out where, many generations
back perhaps, disease had originated. Clairvoyance also
proved that every person was affected by the thoughts and
lives of others, for the thoughts and emotions of each one of
us influenced some other being. Spiritualism showed clearly
the conditions of our individual existence, and the obstacles
and aids to our development, and taught that no human
being is wholly depraved, as the orthodox churches would
have us believe, and as he many years ago as a Methodist
preacher had told the people. He knew now that the lowest
in the scale of being had a germ of excellence, and was as
dear to the Divine Father as the most saintly. There was a
communication between this and the disembodied world, and
the advanced spirits could rain down on us their intellectual
and moral qualities, and in this way, through a comparatively
infinite chain of being, the grace or beneficence of the Divine
Father was brought into our natures. Thus those who had
most intimately cultivated the acquaintance of the so-called
dead lived in the world in peace and happiness and moral
beauty. The vision of the hereafter unfolded by Spiritual¬
ism was such as to give present happiness in the prospect of
what we shall be. He had seen a spirit, and his own mother
had stood behind bis chair and shaken his hand. The ignorant
and wretched, and those who in this world were retrogressing,
would eventually turn from their evil ways, and when placed
under proper conditions for advancement, they would at
length become pure and happy, so that not one soul would be
for ever lost, or shut out from the moral and intellectual hap¬
piness of the higher spirit spheres.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Error.—In Mr. Luxmoore’s letter last week the word ‘ ‘ probability ”
was in error printed instead of “ possibility,” thereby altering the
sense. '
Nov. 21, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
415
Letters on the subject of the National Association may
be addressed to Mr. T. Byeritt, Lilian Villa, Holder’s-hill,
Hendon, N.W.
Mr. Forster, the test medium, is now at Salt Lake
City, and he will visit San Francisco in a week’s time. He has
published a pamphlet about his mediumship.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
CORA. L. V. TAPP AN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
of the 23rd October—at Westbourne Hall,
ABE NOW BEING DELIVERED
EVERT WEDNESDAT EVENING AT LAWSON’S ROOMS,
145, GOWER-STREET.
Doors open at 7. 30. Admission, Is. and 6d. each.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRVOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical 'or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, 28, Sherborne Street, Strangeways, Manchester.
MRS. OLIVE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Ho worth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mv. J. S. Steele,
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERT soon after thejintroduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in 'Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Sbcial gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E. J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, befofe judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nal ieance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
MEDICAL CLAIRYOYANCE.—A Somnambulist,
under the guidance of a powerful Mesmerist, diagnoses and pre¬
scribes for Diseases of all kinds, either personally or through the post.
Patients and Invalids should send full particulars of complaint with age,
sex, and a lock of hair. Fee, 5s. Address, Somnambulist, care of Dr. R.
Williams, Brunswick House, Hayward’s Heath, Sussex.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Yisits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Russell-square, W.O.
'RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J.
(Trance Medium).
J. MORSE
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modem Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the oratipnist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstrase
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will leam more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 53, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.O.
"DEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
_L> FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
416
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 21, 1873,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena.. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. "WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Q-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.CjS.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-comnyttees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle- consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known, why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestation??” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate!, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms- of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head 0#cei.-BEOWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—Jn all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in grea;
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
. TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLAi House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER.PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Bine
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public xesort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON..
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law rdating to Luna¬
tics " is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time at
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient."—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “ EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., S7 and 59, Ludgate-hilL
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHARLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andre w-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W,
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
