AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
fBEGISTERED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 169.—(Vol. VII.—No. 21.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 19, 1875. Published Weekly; Trice Twopence.
Contents.
Irdhi-Pada ... ... ... ......       ... ... ... ... 241
Sunday Servic.es at the Cleveland Hall.A Review of the Theories
of Modern Spiritualism       ,.s .... 24S
The .1875 Conference > f Spiritualists r—Evidences of the Twofold
Nature of Man—The lucompetency of mere Physicists to deal
with Spiritual Things—Man's Dual Nature—The Travelling of
the Spir.t during the Sleep of the Body—Spiritual (foreknowledge
—Obliteration of Memory—Prevision—The Conveyance < ? Mes-
sngee by the Spirits of Sleeping Mortals—The Dissemination of'
Spirituali-m among the Working Glasses—Why the Churches
cannot reach the Working Classes—The Use of SpiritutUliam to
Working Men—Union among Spiritualists .,>s "... 243
The Psychological Society of Great, Britain ..v ....   248
Spiritualism in Islington:—What is Spiritualism?—Spirit Identity-
Voices from the Tombs ....   ..., ..., ... ......... ... 242
Spiritualism in h ew ^.ou,th WalesSpiritualism in Australia.—Mr.
Tyerman’s Wotk in Svdney, and his approach!■ g Departure for
America—Spiritualism in Queensland—National Organisation ... 250
Winter Meetings ... ...., .....      251
Physical Manifestations in Dalston ,w t ,w .... ..... ...   251
Mr. Serjeant Cox ana hie Uncle’s Ghost      251
Sunday Services of the Liverpool Psychological Society   ... 251
Provincial News:— Liverpool; Newcastle-on-Tyjit: Willington-on-Tyne 251
Brixton Psychological Society —Lecture by Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton ‘252
ParagraphsDals'on Association of .Inquirers into. Spiritualhm,
242 ; Mr. and Mrs. Everitt in Derbyshire, 251 ;■ The Anthropolo¬
gical Institute, 252; Reception at Mr. Fitz-Geraldfs..v ... ;tA ... 252
EAST. LONDON SPIRITUAL ME RUNGS. —lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism ar a delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cog man's Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 187&.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary .—Mr. Lends Roberts. 68,. Oxford Street, Liverpool..
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hiltou.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton,, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection, with Psychology.
The Society seeks to.attain its object by the following measures, ox such
of them as from, time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875,
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-bnildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per.Cknt..Interest, allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stook Banks..
Cheque Boojts supplit d.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, aha Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, <ftc., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
. SPIRITUALISTS. ’
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRAR
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURT,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected wi'h Spiri'ualism, from, all parts of the world, and1
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors,
Terms to members ;• One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6di To non-members, annual
tickets, 80s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Stance room can,be.engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from thaSecretavy.
Open from 10.30 a.m. .to M 80 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on- Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
claimed from Members joining after this date.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
SUNDAY EVENING .LECTURES^
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE SPEAKER;
WILL DELIVER;
A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,.
At Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Sta’ion, W., on-
the following Sunday evenings:—November 7th; 14th, 21st, and 28ih.
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the course, 6s. Body of the-
hall, fret)*.
Service to commence at 7 o’clock. Doors open at 6.30
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings, will be-, held at--the rooms of the*
Association for reading and discussing papers, on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commeuce-on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o’clock,,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 33, Great Russell-street,.
Bloomsbury,;W.C.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO* SPIRITUALISM..
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large-
amount of information, compiled- especially for-inquirers,.will be shortly
issued from The, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Gi eat Russell-
street, Londop, for sale at public meetings,,
PRICE ONE PENNY:
There has long been, a demand for some such publication as this, the
qurrent spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or-
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit-
ua'ism is a<,strange one.. ,
Many thousands of copies of. the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors, of spiritual literature, audat spiritual .meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will he a.
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others-. Thai,
charge for advertisements will be One bhillii-g for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in aasoon-as possible, as the publica--
tion will come out in a few weeks' time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply localisocietien with copies,
at a cheap, rate, if. ordered in large quantities; the-said societies may thus,
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on.this - su -ject should be addressed'to the Editor of.
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W,.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
London S’ ,> kin, Marshall & Co.
Just. Published. Price 2s.
piALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH-
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model eol ny.—Congenial English,
society, lovely scenery, a delightfu climate, and the most fertile-of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London Simpkin, Marshall and Oo.
TO MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be t?lad of
an 01 portunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, -Bowling Green Kentucky, U.s, in
Dtcember, 187‘i, if ne will kindly .send-his address to O- J. smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Rusnell-street, London, ti.l called for.
-II
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 19, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Park field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Oalder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lllian-vllla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W*
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W-
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlll, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.O.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington->'q., Liverpool.
Hony^vood, Mrs., 52, War wick-sou are, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., HeathlandS, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.l)., DouglasHoqse,IS, Alexgudra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W. " ■’i '< *■
Wason, James, Wason’srbulldings, Liverpool,
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vUlaJ Cairns-road, New Wandsworth. S.W,
Ashton, 15. P , Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road’, S.W. 1 ' '
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, If.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol. *
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, DuhkeldYStreet, Liverpool. ’
Ohinnerv, Samuel, 4, Elsham.road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley,'Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vuerterrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.'
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Redhhill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.B.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campdenrhi 11 -gardenr, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-Toad-terrace, Norwich-
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W,
Fttton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, LoughbOrough-rd, North Brixton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D.: G., 6, Loughboroughiroad. North Brl^.tpn.’lS.Wv ' ”
Freeman, Josejih, 6., Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E. *’
Gale, Richard, 9,,'WilberfOrce-street, Anlaby-roaif, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Sohqjhlll, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos'., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Htnde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourtie-squgre, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louls-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 31 West-end, Doddington-groye, Keimlngtop-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W- ■ ■
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-halL Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stffcet, W..
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham. ’
Joy, Algernon, M.J 0-E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.1 '
Ilamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-ro^cl, Hammersmith, W-
Mawson.Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosweil-road.E.O. ■ if • •
Meers, W. D.r Ay Isham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwiok-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, ltcgeut’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassetirroad, Dalston, E. * .
Rogers, E. Dawson. 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.'E.1 Dawson, 2, Ilendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
■ Sexton, George, M A.,LL.D., &C.,117,'Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S,E.
Shepherd, J,,29, Everton-cresoeqt, Liverpool. ( * 1
Slfort, Rev. W, F., J. House, Woolwich-common. ,
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snclllng, G. F., Oamden-villa, Vlctpria-roid, Unton-lane, Essex.
Strawbrldge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-nill, Upper Norwood*
1 Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood^
SWinton, A. C., Hill House, Yersailles-road, Norwood, S.E. • “
Tapp, G. Ri, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 80, Markrlane, ErC.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D.,v&c., 26, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood,'Henijleigh, 31, Queen Anne-stree^, Cavendish-square, W,
' White, J. Shadwell, Leeds. - 1 1 '>, A
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., Rnd
8, Altehburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W. • * •' \ «
Wiseman, Mbs., 1, Ormersquare, Bayswater. W-
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-roadVBrixton, S.W»
Wittrall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brlxton, S.Wv 1
Woo'd,'Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, SiW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R, Smith, Esq., Heathtends, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.'
Algernon Joy, Esq,, 38, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C,
Resident Secretary.
Miss Ki^ingbury, 38, Great Russell-strect, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Honorary on Corresponding Jfemhers- '
Prince Emile dp .' Sayn Wittgenstein; Lieutenant-General, Aldc^de-Camp
General’de S.M.1.1’Empereur do Russie, Nieder Walluf pn the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden. ' "i • ■ ' •*
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople-. -'a n if- ''•* ft ■ ’ <• •
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The-Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobit?, bef Potschadh, Styria. via Qratz,
- Austria.' ' > hfiV '■ V- >* • ’’
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Mjadrld.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prpspfot
6, St. Petersburg, t , • . . , <
The Baron von Dlrckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave dp Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysee's, Purls.
Mme • de Veh,12f, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysefes, Paris
The Hon, Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brantlng, New York ; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq , Hanimoiiton, Atlantio'Co , New Jersey, U.S.'A-
Mrs. Ci r j, L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S A. •.1 ■
Miss Anha Blackwell, 13, RueLauriston, Paris,.
Baboo Pearyehand Mittra,'7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James My lire. Esq., BehPea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardlngo Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq . Onde Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyermsn, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant (late of S nvrna), 4, ViaMorone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmllian I’eity, Pr ifjssor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffinai n, Proieisor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany
W. Lindesay Ricli.rdson. M D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Viuioriv., Australia.
Gregor G. WIttig, Esq.,NurnbergerSti,asse, 86, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H Terry, Esq,, 96, Uussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris
Epes Sargent, Esq .Rox 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M 1)., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U S.A.
15. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Dltson, Esq., M D., Albany, New York, U S.A.
W L. Sarfnnons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray' Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memfihis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Eiq., 9, Mori'tgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M.de Bassompicrre. 286, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Antheline Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq , M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
LeComte de Bullet, Paris.
j. L. G'Sullivan; Esq , IQ, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, limb, U.S.A.
Dr. Gi'unhut, Waltaner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russeil-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Splrlte et Maghetiime. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue do
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cqwley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buija-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
J o^efstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The Bkitish NATlotfAt Association of SfiritUaiists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of Overy variety'of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their, disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phejjotfiena, called Spiritual or Psychic: to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
Upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members'of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists he^d in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, ’and the Spiritualists Of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shiliiugs a year. Each
member, has a Single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
ofiSces. i .v i .
Friends wishing tq join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to Communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great’Russeil-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution an$ Rules may be had upon application.
The entranae to the offices is in Woburu-si;i'eet. *
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the house’s dr ihvestigatrirs. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-Street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and'Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8, o’clock each evening. Address, as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, Five Sittings for Development under Spiiit
Oonuol in'Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumshir.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, 'and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10', New Ormond-^tVeet, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to m(\ke known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure thtougn h'imi’ in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of ddep1 study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of care, he is'now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his ConsultingTrooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address,’ §9, 1 Finbdrough-foad, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington. ■
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To’ he seen by appointment only. Terms
on application b^ letter.''
MR, J. J. MDRSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned toi England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to [lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed ‘ to hiin. at W arwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E. ''
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DmilR, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Established), atten is patients
daily fitom 2 till 5, at'his own residence, 10, Berkeley.Garuehs, Cainden
Hill, Kensington... Somnambulic Consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication c f their causes, and remedied.' Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Mrs. Olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
NTREET, CHALK FaRM-ROaD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advicb, Mealing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Teims for private seance, one'guinea, pubi c seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m, at above address. 1 Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
J[ uf[ i]j$ |)rugr$$$ u| ilp ntfo xt^
VOLUME ^EVE^f. J^UJVlBEFi TWEJ^TY-OjME.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER I9th, 1876.
IRDHI-PADA.
Whbk, of late years, within a period most of us can
remember, the phenomena of Spiritualism became more
widely known, few of the manifestations provoked more
popular surprise and incredulity than the sudden
loosening of tightly-knotted bonds, and levitation, or
the floating of human bodies above the ground. Both
have now passed into the oommon-piacea of the move¬
ment. In a past number of this paper an instance was
adduced showing that the instantaneous untying of
cords was known long ago in India j it is now proposed
to bring forward some details showing that in very
remote antiquity, centuries' before our era, the idea, of
levitation was a familiar indication and accompaniment
of the highest state of spiritual exaltation.
In the prodigiously complicated system of Buddhist
rites and asceticism, it was believed possible by the
continuous observance of certain ceremonies, and an in¬
flexibly followed course of moral action, to arrive at the
possession of supernatural powers. The entrance on
this course was through the rite called Kasina, of
which there were ten descriptions, chiefly modes,
assisted by material symbols, of persisting in rigid,
unbroken meditationn till the state called1 samadhi was
induced. Samadhi is described as that which keeps the
thoughts together, like the moisture which causes the
grains of sand to adhere together and form a ball;
through this the illumination termed nimitta was
attained. The ten Kasinas were to be exercised in
fourteen excessively complicated waj’s, and after all had
been successfully accomplished, the power of Irdhi
might be acquired^ though not infallibly. Irdhi is a
miraculous power distinguishing a Bah&t, or one who
is entirely free from evil desire; who has passed the
four paths, and will at death attain Nirwana. One
special characteristic of Irdhi is the power of instant
locomotion and flight through the air from place to
place; hence it is called Irdhi-paTda, i.e., the Divine
Foot, on account of the assistance it renders to those
who possess it. Fah-Hian, the Chinese pilgrim to India
in the 4;th century, the accuracy of whose local and
geographical accounts has been so fully confirmed,
observes, in a matter-of-course way, as though it were
nothing unusual, that “ Eah&ts continually fly ; ” and
again, “ The men of that country frequently see
persons come flying to the temple (apparently Ellora);
the religious men occupying the upper chambers aae
constantly on the wing,” (Beal's Travels of Fah-
Hian.') ,,
. People to-day are staggered at the accounts of
mediums floating up to ceilings, or being transported in
a moment from one quarter of London to another; and
few perhaps of the boldest would be prepared to imagine
flights of holy men fluttering like pigeons about the
high chamber-cells of rock-temples; but there are
strange things in the world.to-day, and there may have
been, stranger in days gone by, than dreanjt of in any
philosophy. At Dardu, in Northern India, the -same
pilgrim saw an image of wood ninety-four feet high, re¬
presenting Maitreya Bodhisatwa, “ the Buddha that is
yet to be,” to obtain the size and appearance of which
a sculptor was by the power of Irdhi throe times trans¬
ported up to the Tushita heaven, the Fourth Sphere
wherein rest all births yet to come. This calls to
mind that weird man, known to St. Paul, who was
caught up to the third heaven and heard unspeak¬
able words (2 Oorv xii.,). May he not have been an
Indian ascetic? This'power is described as a mira¬
culous energy of the purified will, gradually prepared
by the long and difficult processes previously spoken of,,
as the potter gradually prepares and tempers his clay
for any vessels he designs.
Milinda, the king of ISagal, asked the great Buddhist
sage Nagasbna on this point,—
. “-Can &ny one- who has the fleshly body of: a man pass instantly
toother countries, or to the- worlds of tlie gods and Bralima.s ? ”
Naqasenck. “• It is possible for one- who has a body composed oft
th,e four elements to visit the- places you have-named.”'
Milinda. “ In what way can this he done ? ”
N'agusena. “ Can you, at your will,, leap from, the ground, say,
to the height of a span or a cubit ?1”
Milinda. “ With ease I can leap eight cubits high.”
Nagasena*. “-How do you do,this ? ”
MHindu. “I determine to leap: through this determination my
body becomes as it were buoyant, and I rise from;the-ground.”
Nagasena. “Just so the priest who has the power-of Irdhi deter¬
mines to go to suoh a place; by the-determination of his mind his.
body becomes as it were- imponderous, and hS'is enabled thereby to.
pass through.the air.”
It is well known how essential force of will is in
mesmerism. But besides the power of passing through,
the air Irdhi confers the power of self-multiplication,
of seeing in any place as with divine ©yes, even into,
rocks and earth, of causing- a wind to. arise,, of making
any substance- remove from, one place to another'
without the intervention of a second person, of causing
things to appear that are lost or hidden, of suddenly
producing various objects; such as utensils, flowers, and
gems, and of passing through walls and solid sub¬
stances. It is also the privilege of those who. have-
entered into any of the four paths to discern the-
thoughts and the previous lives of all in the same or the
preceding paths. Now, it seems worth noting how-
many of the above-recited phenomena resemble what is.
claimed to be effected by or through medial, and clair¬
voyant sensitives to-day. Bow, for example, the last-
named gift recalls, that most wonderful and well-
attested power of Heinrich Zschokke, by which pas¬
sages in the lives of others, with whom he was in
company, often perfect strangers, were suddenly
brought before his eyes,, with aB minute accompaniments,
of place, surroundings, and personages, passages- ton
often very embarrassing..
It may be that these mysterious powers and attributes-
have in different ages been manifested in different ways,
and under varying conditions. The Buddhists held that
the power of Irdhi was exceedingly difficult to acquire,,
even after the exercise of all the- Basinas; indeed1,
hardly to be attained unless they had been also prac¬
tised in former lives;'‘ him who has not exercised
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 19, 1875.
Kasina in former ages, its accomplishment is exceed¬
ingly difficult. Among those who have not exercised
it, scarcely one succeeds in its acquisition out of a
hundred or a thousand who may attempt it. Eyen to
those who have accomplished the exercises, the
acquirement of the nimitta-illumination is mo^t diffi¬
cult ; scarcely one in a thousand is successful, and even
after that is acquired, it is equally difficult tq attain
the power of trdhi.” At the present day therp is little
idea of acquiring mediumistic or clairvoyant powers;
they appear to be conferred in a strangely random
way, not coming with observation, but like a wind that
blows whither it lisjtetb; nor is it certain hqw far thpy
are susceptible of deyefopnient by personal wil| or
striving.
In the extract just given from the Belinda Erasna
an allusion may be noticed to exercising the rites in
.former ages or state? of e^isteqqe. This may give
occasion for a few ■vyqrds on reincarnation as field by
Bpddhispi. It is afmost needless to observe that this
most ancient theory is the substratum and rationale of
the great |mdian systems. Buddha declared that from
existence and its inevitable incidents was produced “ the
complete body of sorrqw.” Sentient beings have run,and
will continue to run, through endles? phases of existence.
The Jdtakas record nearly five hundred particular
states of existence, yarying from a deity, a monarch,
ascetic., aQ<l artisan, to an elephapt, serpent, ff8h> and
frog, in which Gotama Bddhisakwa fu1*18©!! appeared
before attaining the supreme Buddhahood. The
“cleaving to existing object? ^ i? q property inherent
in all sentient b.eings, and cannot be shaken off, except
by Rabat?. When by Ifie dissolution qf the ele¬
ments death supervenes upqn one statq of being,
“the cleaving to existence” still exists, mu?t e^ert
* it? power, and another being must necessarily be
produced ; but the manner ana degree of the
new existence is controlled by a mysterious and
intricate, property termed kadma, literalfy “ actio1n,,,
the aggregate result of all previous act?, in qnbroken
soc.cession, from the beginning qf existence, thrqugh
t hq coqntle?s birth? qf past age?. This, though, a mere
ab?traction, is a? inseparable frorq existence as shadow
from sqb,stanqe, and though sometimes inactive is ever
jiotentially present, like frqit on a tree. N° 9ne can
tell ih wha,t state the Kadma that roles him will ap¬
point his next birth. He may be now and till dea^h a
veryyirtuous man, but in his kadma there may be ?ome
crime committed, in a birth age? ago, and the. punish¬
ment for that crime may haye. to qe endured, pon-
tr&riwise, a bad life apd evil deeds at present may be
healed in a new birth, by the influenee of good actions
done in a former state of being. the way of kadpia
is intricate and uncertain ; none can forecast its opera¬
tion, or what deeds, in long past births may influence
. 1 he new birth. The sage. Mogalan wa,s thq principal
(liscipfe of Buddha, and the chief of thos,e who po.sses^aed
the, ppwer of Irdhiyet he was once assaulted by
thieves, who broke several of his bones ; a,nd this, wa.8
explained, by Buddha as the result of Kadnqa, because
in a far distant birth he had caused the death of one. of
his parents. The only e8caPe from “ the sorrow qf
existence”—the sole perfect rest-—is the attainment qf
Nirwana, the goal and hope of all B,uddh,i?ts. Whoso
has entered one of the Pour Paths at fast “sees nir¬
vana,” and becomes a Rahtfkj “He can receive n,q
further birth; the path of successive existence is de-
fctroyed; all cleaving to existence is cut off; the prin¬
ciple of evil desire is eradicated; all connection with
the world is completed and done.” Europeans regard
Nirwdna with horror as mere blank annihilation; in
Buddhist eyes it i? the one absolute deliverance and
rest; the only outlet whereby at last
Eyen the weariest river
Winds somewhere safe tq sea.
Whpn it is considered that by a continued repetition of
birth and death the sentient being may be subject to
constant suffering, being liable to he hurried from one
scale of existence to anqther, and flung dqwn, perhaps
from tb? condition of a sage or king tq that of a leper
or a yeptilq, it i? intelligible how existence can be re¬
garded as the worst qf evils, and its qtter extinction
the greatest gain. A Buddhist would find in Eadma a
key tq all the puzzles qf heredity and the possession of
medial power? by otherwise un?pjritual persons; such
in former lives may hav0 attained the higher com¬
munion, been flung dowq from it by the Kadma of
previqus qr subsequent lapses, and nqw survivals and
haif-qwakeqiugs of loqg lost powers and faculties may,
in the kaleidoscopic resolution qf gqod and evil, revisit
the present e^istenpe
J4he glimpses of forgotten dreams,
Of something, felt, like somqfhing here;
Of something done, we know hot where;
Such as no language may declare.
Before quitting thi? pale and cheerless philosophy
that di?tru3ts and hates alike both life and death, and
In which th© great tjc^trine of progressive evolution
finds no place, it may b,e remarked that its experience
of irdhi-levitatiqn is not peculiar, but occurs in every
religious system. El Islam, especially in its ecstatic
aspects, Inflow8 it wpll. The flights of Mahommed to
Paradise are W9^ known. It is recorded by a contem¬
porary qf the famous Jellal-al-din, the founder of the
order qf whirling Dervishes, born a.d. 1207, that when
he was fiyp years old he had manifestations from the
invisible world, sight? of angels and genii within domes
qf glory* Qncp when a boy, playing with other
children' on the flet hoqse-tops, one of them suggested
that they should jump from one hou$e-top to another.
JeH^l-al-din replied that such sport was only fit for
dogs or cats, hilt ffiat human beings, if they felt any
power in their soul?, ought to fly heavenwards with him.
Saying so he disappeared from their sight, on which
they raised q qry of lamentation ; whereupon he shortly
reappeared amongst them with the hue of his counten¬
ance changed, and his eyes altered, and said: “ As I
spoke to. yoq f suddenly saw a company of persons
dressed in grqqn raiment, who took me up and showed
me the miracles of the upper world, but when your
waifings ascended they again depositqd me here.”
Sh Philip N-eri, Ignatijus Loyola, Teresa, Dominic,
Dunsfan, Cajetan, and many other saints are declared
by contemporary eyidence to, have been raised from the
ground during deyotions. The Abb& Movillot reports
of the Esquimaux in Greenland that their anghkoks, or
priests, sometimes rise from the ground and pass through
the roofs above them. All the phenomena of modern
* seances^ appear to, be familiar fq thi? remote and bar-
■ barons peo]j>Jq,
Dalstotj Association or. Inqu^hbes into Spieituaiism.—The
fifth ahmversary faieeting is announced to be nql'd at the Kooms in
N^yarino-ipad, Dais ton, on Tuesday evening, the 30th instant.
The meeting will be an interesting one, as the arrangements com¬
prise in e-ddress from Mr. J. j. Morse (hon. member), upon his
u Experiences in America,”' which he has specially prepared for the
occasion.
Nov. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CLEVELAND HALL.
On Sunday evening last Mr. J. J. Morse delivered, in the trance
aiate, the second of a course of four lectures, in the Cleveland Hall,
Cleveland-street, London, W. There was a small but attentive
audience. Mr. Joseph Freeman presided, and after the reading of
a portion of the 10th chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, a hymn
was sung.
Mr. Morse then passed under the control of his spirit guides, and
gave utterance to the following prayer: 0 Thou Great Power j
from whom all inspiration to human souls descends, Thwchildren
draw near to Thee once more, to receive the glorious influence of
Thy divine wisdom ; grant that the heavenly dews may penetrate
the curtains of their souls, that they may feel the true divinity of
Thy all-powerful nature; may their hearts be strewn with flowers
of purity and truth, forsaking all that is evil, and drawing neater
to the nature of the glories of Thine own light and beneficence;
That each one may glean foresbadotidugs of Thy holy life and
goodness is our humble supplication; Grant Thou, 0 out Father,
that these aspirations may be felt and heard.
Another hymn was then sung, after which Mr. Morse, still in
the trance, delivered an address, the subject df which he said would
be
A BEVIBW OF THB THEORIES OF MODERN SFIRfTUADISM.
Ho submitted that Spiritualism was calculated to bring happiness
and joy into human life, btit that in this, as in all other denomina¬
tions, enthusiasts were to be found who claimed that their particular
ideas upon various subjects were the right ones to follow, and that
no other interpretation that might be placed upon the facts could pos¬
sibly be regarded as consistent; In the sunlight of their own
happiness they never once looked backwards to see whether there
were not dangers and footfalls to be avoided; thus instead of
assisting the movement they were more likely to retard its progress;
In speaking of the theories involved iil modern Spiritualism he did
not mean to imply that Spiritualism was responsible' for those theories
which had been connected with if, hor to what extent they were or
were not related thereto, so thaf the standpoint whence his argu¬
ments were derived might be more clearly understood. Spiritualism
presented one broad indisputable fact, namely, that of the communion
of the inhabitants of the material world with those of the life
beyond, which evidence, when placed side by side wifh the theo¬
logical theories taught at the presentday, evinced its own superiority.
Those theological theories, further, were not in accordance with thd
necessities of human nature generally, and,, therefore, inapplicable
as affecting the comprehension of man in his relation td a future
life. An objection was oft-times raised, evefi by Spiritualists, as
regards the doubtful and conflicting statements sometimes made by
spirits bn returning to communicate with men on earth. A class of
spirits 'Who might be called evil had the power of giving certain commu¬
nications of this character to the inhabitants of the material World, but
an evil communication coming from one of those spirits to a person
on this earth in one state of nature and development, in his esti-i
mation might be called lt good j” as it suited his taste, he would
probably look for more of the same kind. Whilst, on the other
hand, the' same communication in the eyes of a devout Spirit¬
ualist, or of a conscientious orthodoi clergyman, would
quite as likely he considered unreliable, or blasphemous, dr de¬
moniacal; He would not take upon himself to decide the matter for
them, though this much rdight be said, that when a communication
from the invisible world was presented to anybody, the conse¬
quences of acting upon which communication should ultimately in¬
volve the person it came to in fuifi and disgrace, then there would
be little doubt remaining as to the nature of the communication;
Therefore it would be as well to subject all messages from the
spirit world to the keenest possible criticism; To gain an absolute
and clear knowledge of the nafute of that #orld was almost impos¬
sible, since the conditions required to bring about that result
between the two worlds were not yet developed; The popular idea
Of the life beyond was that of a spacious paradise that had no sub-1
stantial reality of its own, but was mote like k beautiful dfeam,
where the individual surroundrd himself with as gorgeous a dwell¬
ing as his imaginative ttiind would enable him to create j house-'
quently, when these ideas were first mooted, a clkss of literature ap¬
peared which, like the representations it furnished of the future state,
had no existence objectively, but was a creation of their imaginations;
Man required a world in which his intellect might gathefi experi¬
ence, and if given any other, lie would be dissatisfied; There was
one man who had placed before the thinking world much evidence
in relation to this point. Whose clairvoyant powers were calculated
to produce a good and Useful impression upon disbelievers in
modern Spiritualism; he referred to Andrew JacltsOn Davis, and
still another might be mentioned—the name of Hudson Tuttle was
well ifcnoWn throughout the movement; if their writing's could not
be accepted as true, the readers of them at least might be inspired
to say, “We wish we could believe that they were true.” Among
the' many theories brought to bear upon the subject of Spiritualism,
that of reincarnation Was occasionally before them. Certainly this
theory had been received by many persons of intelligence and re¬
pute; but how was it that, if the alleged facts were' admitted, the
reincarnation of a common1 pef'son was of such rare o'ccurrence; in
fact, so seldom did it occur; that it struck him that this class of
persons had been ungenerously treated, and that fortune in this
respect had been against them. In his expefiencd, he' bad never
mot with one single fact that would justify him in believing that
reincarnation was possible or true. A great advantage would be
attained if some reincarnated Egyptian could give an interpreta¬
tion of the mystic writings upon some of the ancient stones to be
found there, the meanings of which had not yet been explained.
A sceptic, as regarded Spiritualism, naturally inquired, “ What will
Spiritualism do for the inhabitants of this world? Will it solve
any theological problems ? Will it assist us in gaining clearer and
more concise ideas regarding the life hereafter? Will it decisively
solvfe social problems ? Or will it come with a tendency to over¬
throw everything harmoniously created, leaving misery and sorrow
in their stead ? ” To these questions, it might be answered that
Spiritualism dealt with the conditions, nature, attributes, and cir¬
cumstances of the spirit of man, hence it was a safe rock to which
to fly for safety. The human body was not the originator of its
own movements, and had no sensations of its own ; those sensa¬
tions centered in the reat man, who would pass to the life beyond,
and this teal ihan had in his existence her6 a pdrpose which, if
kctfid up to, would hssist in the unfoldment of his spiritual natufh.
THE 1878 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS;
ThU following is a continuation of our teport of the proceedings
of thb Natiorial Conference of Spiritualists, recently held on the
premises of the Natidnal Association, at 38, Great Russell-street;
Bloomsbury, London;
On Thursday evening, Nov; 4th, Mr; John Larrtont; of Liverpool!;
occupied the chair;
BtlDENCfiS 0£ THE TWOFOLD NATURE OF MAN.
Mf; Thomas Everitt, of Holdef’s Hill, Hendon, N:W., then reiid
the following paper f—
ThC title’ of my phpet is “An Exposition of Man’s Twofold
EXistencC, being prestirfiptlve evidence of his Capacity to live, aftOr
the completion of his earthly pilgrimage.” He who dares to stand
up at the present dky in opposition to the accumulated and over¬
whelming evidence of man’s continued existence furnished by
Spiritualised, may be looked upon b'y the' Unthinking multitude as Si
bold clever man, but will be regarded by the experimental psycholo¬
gist Ha k hCCdless presumptuous mortal, fdshiug in where “ angels
fear to tread.” “ Man, know thyself,*’ UVas k maxim taught by the
ancients; ttnd not less necessary is that injunction to-day; What
am I, and whither am I bound ? are questions of the gravest im¬
portance to every man, woman, and Child; Is this body myself, or
something which belongs to me ? Is life only a quality of this body;
or is it something that fdtrrta, fashions, and uses the body ? Have
I a soul ? as the popular phrase has it; if sO, is the soul a distinct
entity apart from my body, and will it, or can it; exist after the dis-
sClution of' this mortal frame ? What evidence have I of its con¬
tinued existence ? These are questions, the importance of which
Cannot be over estimated;
THE INOOMPETENCY OF MERE PHYSICISTS TO DEAL WITH
SPIRITUAL THINGS;
Min was called by the ancients a microcosm, a world in miniA-
tafe. All men admit that man is the most complex and wonderful
piece of mechanism in creation. No wonder then need be expressed
that enlightened minds in all ages, and with untiling zeal, have
made man A special study, although men have always been making
discoveries which bkie eXcited their interest, stimulated their
industry, and fewai'ded their labours, still there remain Undiscovered
mine's Of mental health, beautiful and attractive fields of spiritual
treasures, which will well repay the explorations of the Student;
Whole regiments of workers are devoting their powers to the study
of the physical domain of ma'u, but not less important and interest¬
ing is the study of man as a spiritual being; The investigator of
the Occult sciences will tell you that his facts afe as reliable as those'
of the physicists, so that he smiles at the man who attributes to
superstition, imagination, or fancy, that which his senses have
tested, his experience having made him; as far as knowledge of
facts goes, as much a man of science in his special domain, as a
Newton, or a Franklin,, or a Huxley.
Now in all matters of evidence we accept the statements of tho'se
who have devoted their time aud attention to any particular subject.
Hence you would not think of consulting a chemist about carpen¬
tering, or a physiologist about the mechanism of a watch; neither
should we take the opinion of the man whose mind is of a material¬
istic cltst, from long hftbit of thought iU physical science, upon any
metaphysical subject. It is here that several reputedly learned
men have made such egregious blunders, and poisoned the minds of
ignorant thousands by ridiculing a subject to which they have paid
little oi* no attention, and upon which they are, therefore, not com-
p'ete'nt to form an adequate opinion. Some physicists Will tell you
that man id Only an atomic automaton, acted upon by external
forces; that he has his origin in protoplasm, and that fill there' is
of him will again return to its original elements ; whereas on the
other hand there are metaphysical students who will tell you that
man has a spiritual body, that this body has its origin in the spiritual
world, that it is built up and compO'sed of spiritual substances, aud
that it will live after the material tabernacle has crumbled aud com-
nriugled.again: with mother earth. Now these philosophers are both
right whiEe they confine themselves to their respective spheres of
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3STov. 19, 1875".
thought. The one studies man’s external being, the other his internal
—the one the texture and composition of his physical garment, the
other his spiritual being, the ego that wears the physical garment.
They are both scientific men in regard to their own studies, because
man lives in the material and the spiritual world at one and the
same time. "We are informed by an old authority that “there is a
natural body and there is a spiritual body.” Doubtless Paul had
some well-grounded reason for making such a statement j most
likely it was from personal experience and knowledge, for he says
in substance, “ I know if this earthly tabernacle (or body) is de¬
stroyed, I have another house (or body) that will live eternally in
the heavens.” Hence he spoke with authority when he said:
M There is a spiritual body ”—new, at the present time, existing
with the natural body. This has been abundantly confirmed by
modern experience,
man’s dual nature.
Perhaps of all the truths made known by spirit communion, the
fact of man’s duplex or twofold existence is the most delightful and
interesting; especially is it so to the bereaved, when they are worn
out with grief, bowed down in sorrow. The problem is no longer a
doubtful one to the student of spiritual science, for he knows now
that the ego exists in a region beyond the outward senses, that time
and space present no obstacle to the accomplishment of its mission,
or the consciousness of its existence. This has been proved in
various ways, notably by the fact that the spirits of persons still
living in the natural sphere sometimes visit people and places
hundreds and even thousands of miles distant, and as an evidence
that they are accurately describing what they then really see and
hear, they will not only give a minute personal description of those
they visit, but will tell what they are doing at the time, and relate
the subject of their conversation. They will also give a minute ac¬
count of the place and its surroundings. All this will they do and
much more, without any previous knowledge of either the persons
or the places. Most people dispose of these facts in a very summary
way, by attributing them to clairvoyance or clairaudience, as though
that settled the whole matter; whereas in fact it is really conceding
the whole point for which I contend, for while hearing and seeing
by the ordinary or natural methods are simply operations of the
physical senses, the very terms clairvoyance ^nd clairaudience have
been devised for the purpose of describing operations which are
those of other, or what 1 call spiritual senses.
THE. TRAVELLING OF THE SPIRIT DURING THE SLEEP OF THE BODY.
I shall now adduce some few facts to show that man is an inhabi¬
tant of the spiritual world whilst also living in the natural world.
I shall not attempt an explanation of all the difficulties that may
arise in the mind; sufficient that we establish our position by facts.
It is not an uncommon thing for Spiritualists to receive communi¬
cations from persons who affirm that they a.re still living in this
world. This is an experience that we have frequently had in my
home, and especially was this so during our early acquaintance with
Spiritualism. They would spell or write out messages, perfectly
characteristic both in language and penmanship of the individuals
whom they positively asserted that they were, A particular friend
of ours, possessing medial powers, would frequently visit us, and
give us messages perfectly characteristic of himself, and he has often
written to us to know if the messages, purporting in their turn to
come to him from Mrs. Everitt, were true; not unfrequently mes¬
sages received from both Mrs. Everitt and Mr. B——j and commu¬
nicated either by lips, raps, or writing, were strictly correct. At
first we believed that messages came from the “ familiars ” of the
mediums, as Swedenborg calls the attendant spirits, but reason and
experience have led to a different conclusion, 1 have sometimes
been about to tell John Watt, the attendant spirit of Mrs, Everitt,
the contents of an interesting sermon or lecture which I have heard
or read, when he has stopped me by saying, “ Stay, tell me when
you come over here; you can tell me so much better than you can
get it through your physical organism,”—meaning that when my
body was at rest at night I should be with him in the spiritual
world, and that I could then more readily relate either what I had
heard or read. I have said, “ John, I should like to shake hands
with you; ” he has replied. “ Yon have, my brother, many times
when you have been on our side.” “ But,” I have answered, “ I do
not remember it when I come back again into this world,” “ That
does not alter the fact,” said he; “ it would not be good for you to
remember your spiritual life; when you are with us you have no
wish to take the remembrance of spiritual things into the natural
life; you then see the wisdom of that knowledge being withheld
from your natural memory, except on special occasions and for
special reasons. Y ou are sometimes permitted to remember what
you hear and see in our world; some persons’ Spiritual senses are
* opened,’ as you call it, but they are only withdrawn from the
natural into the spiritual sphere. This you call ‘ a vision,’ and the
person ‘ a visionary,’ as though what he had heard and seen did not
exist except in his imagination, while thfe things seen are often as
much realities as anything that exists or transpires in your world,
and are intended to convey some lesson of instruction or warning.”
SPIRITUAL FOREKNOWLEDGE.
During a private conversation with John Watt, he said, “Mr.
Evoritt, you must let your wife go down to Norwich; she requires
a thorough change, and the society and mesmeric influence of Mr.
Itogers’ family will do her good.” This struck mo as very curious,
for Mr. Bogers’ family were comparative strangers to us; I men¬
tioned some three or four other places where I knew she would receive
a hearty welcome, and I thought would be more comfortable, all of
which he said would not do so well., “ But,” I said, “ I cannot write
to Mr. Rogers and ask him to let my Wife come and stay with his
family.” “Oh,” he replied, “ that has all been arranged on our side;
Mr. and Mrs. Bogers are quite willing, and will be delighted to
receive yoUr wife as their guest.” Now imagine m'y astonishment,
if you can, when, on the arrival of the first post next morning,
a letter came from Mr. Bogers with a pressing invitation for my
wife to go and spend a few weeks with his family, as he had heard
she was not very well. I had had no previous Correspondence with
Mr. Rogers upon the subject, and therefore could not expect that an
invitation Would come from that quarter.
This shows not merely a foreknowledge on the part Of the com¬
municating spirit, but an actual existence and meeting of the parties
concerned ) “ For,” said John, “ you arranged it among yourselves
while on our side.” I need scarcely say that Mrs. Everitt went,
and soon realised the benefit of the change. Admit that man has a
conscious existence during rest hours, and you have an explanation
of the above facts; and please bear in mind that I am not retailing
what I have heard from others, but stating my own personal ex¬
perience, recorded at'the time of its occurrence, as were all the in¬
cidents which I shall relate in this paper; hence I can speak with
certainty as to their truth and reality. Our spirit guardians have
far more influence and control over us than we think. They can,
when necessity requires it, let down the spiritual into the natural,
and can also actually and most effectually ‘obliterate from the
natural memory circumstances and events, as completely as though
they had never existed. The following fact will give an illustration
of this statement:—
OBLITERATION OF MEMORY.
When we were about to leave London to live in the country,
some of our many friends thought it would be a fitting opportunity
to mske Mrs. Everitt some acknowledgment of their esteem aud
gratitude for her willing and unceasing1 devotion of her medial
powers to the cause of truth. As the time fixed for the presentation
drew near, I thought it was only right that she should be made ac¬
quainted with the fact, and accordingly, one night after we had re¬
tired to rest, I began in a very indirect manner—for I knew that I
must go very cautiously to work, on account of her sensitive nature
—to call her attention to the subject. Before I had uttered many
words I saw a bright light flow down from the ceiling, and ex¬
claimed, “Oh! did you see that light?” “No,” said she, “but
your mother is standing hereand my mother immediately gave
her well-known signal by raps. Again I exclaimed, “ There! did
you not see that ?” Another bright light. “No,” she replied,
“ but Annie is standing by the side of your mother.” Annie also
gave evidence of her presence by rapping. I then said to these
spirit friends, “ Is it not quite time Mrs. Everitt should be informed
of what is about to take place ?” A most emphatic negative was
given, which was surprising to me, as the time was drawing near.
I put other questions upon the same subject, all of which were un¬
mistakably negatived. By this time Mrs. Everitt began to be very
anxious to know what it was all about, and said, “ she did not think
it was right to keep her in the dark about matters which concerned
herself.” The spirit friends then gave her the following message
by raps—“ We will tell you all about it, dear, when you
come over here ”—meaning that during rest hours they themselves
would give the information. In the morning I listened for* the
first sentence, expecting, as a matter Of course, that it would be
about the subject of our conversation the previous night, as she
had been quite concerned and upset to think that she could not be
made acquainted with it at once. No doubt it was her last thought
before she went to sleep, therefore it was natural for me to suppose
that it would be her first thought on waking; but not a word was
uttered, not the least allusion was made to it. I was in her'com¬
pany all that day, for we had a long walk in the country together,
therefoie she had plenty of opportunity to refer to the matter, if it
entered her mind. I frequently thought, “ How strange she does
not refer to it.” It was uppermost in my mind; in the silence aud
solitude of the midnight hours those strange lights, those solemn
emphatic raps which shook the bedstead, that kind and loving mes¬
sage, made such a deep impression upon me, that nothing short of
supernatural interference could have buried it in oblivion. But not
the last shadow of a thought on the subject appeared to have
entered Mrs. Everitt’s mind. For the space of nearly a month it
was most Completely and entirely removed from her natural
memory, until I received permission from my spirit friends to care¬
fully make her acquainted with what was intended. After I had
given her the information, however, I could see the wisdom of not
letting her know before, for it was almost too much for her sensitive
nature.
FRBVISION,
The next morning, while unconscious that she had returned so
far as to be able to use the organs of speech to this world, she said.
“It is all over now,” I said: “What is all over?” “Why,.the
meeting,” she said, as though she was surprised that I should ask
such a question ; and then she went on to say: “Was not that a
beautiful speech of John Watt’s? Industry and harmony combined
promote lives of usefulness.” I said i “ What do you mean? I do
not know what you refer to,” She now became sensible that she
Nor. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
was speaking of what had actually taken place in the spirit-world
and the following ate some of the particulars she gave me; She
said: “ We were at a meeting, where there were fathered together
a large number df friends still living in this world.” "Ihe names
of many she repeated, blit she added: “ There was also a much
larger nundber of friends present Who have left this world:” She
also remenibered the substance of the speeches, especially that of
John Watt, which appears to have made a deep irripression upon her
mind; particularly the words: “ Indiistry and harnriony combined
ptouidte lives of usefiilness,” doubtless from the fact that the articles
to bd presented were a sewing machine and a piano. The persons
she saw at the spiritual meeting were also present at the Cannon-
stredt presentation in this world. Now in this little episode yoti have
sevettU interesting events, worthy of a place in our spiritual litera¬
ture; You have, in the first place, complete evidence of the fact
that while the body is resting here the man himself is frilly and
actively alive in the spiritual sphere ; that he exists concurrently
on two planes of lifej the n&tdral arid the spiritual; rind that the
consciousness of the higher life is, to a larg'e extent, if not alto-*
gether, independent of the consciousness of the lower; But thesd
experiences tdach other scarcely less important lessons. They
show the possibility of the complete obliteration from the natitfal
memory of that whidh, in the ordinary coursd of things, would have
made a lasting impression upon the mind; and they offer evidence,
also, that wd are not only surrounded by invisible intdlligent beings,
but that those beings have marvellous powers, and are identified
with our best interests; that they carl not only, in some cases,
remove frond the outer mind, or memory, the recollection of dvents
which they sde it is not desirable for us to remember, but they can
also allow us, when there is a necessity for.it, to bring the recollec¬
tion of our spiritual life into the natiiral sphere; And if they have
the power1, for special ends and purposes, to alldw us to retain a
recollection of the experiences of Our spirit-life, does it not imply
that they have the care and keeping of the memory of the inner
life, lest We shorild pr'ofarie that knowledge by becoming discon¬
tented with our lot here ? A complete remembrance of the life df
the spirit would, doubtless, in many eases, make us anxious to
remain there Altogether, rind impel many to cut short their existence
here, And so defeat the ends of Providence ; further^ did we fully
realise the extent to which We are subject to spirit influence, it
would interfere with our free agency, and destroy our individuality;
For the'se, And many other reasons, it is. wish that the knowledge
of our spiritual life is Withheld from us; but the time is, doubtless,
Coming whe'n man will be so educated that he can receive the
knowledge of the inner life without danger of his violating the
decrees of his Heavenly Father; He Will know that that life is
no illusion, no freak of fancy; Uo result of the’ imagination; but a
glorious soul-dheering reality;
The following is much to the purpose, And I think goes ft long
way to establish the theory I am putting forth; During ft private
conversation with John Watt he said: “Mn Everitt, Mr; Aj has
had a vision, As you Would call it; We intend him to remember
what took place while you were all ever here last night, and We
think he will; ask him when you see him.” At the same time John
mentioned the names of several persons Who Were with me in the
spirit world. Mr. A. Was at least 400 miles from London, and as
we had differences of opinion upon a private matter we were at the
time carrying on a correspondence upon the subject, In my letter
to Mr, A, I happened to mention the names of those persons^ whom
John had spoken of as being with me, but without the slightest
reference to what John had said, for I intended to ask Mr« A, about
the vision when I saw him. I told him that those four friends were
of the same opinion as myself on the subject of our differences,
thinking he would yield to their judgment, and because he valued
their opinion and friendship. In his letter to me he said i il I can
now understand the vision I had on Thursday night. I saw you
and Messrs. B,, 0., D., and F.” He went on to tell What took place
between us; he described his oWn feelings and views, and told mo
he had the sympathy of some spirit friends, although those who
Were with me (those then in the spiritual world, and at the same
time living in this), treated him coolly, which from their strong
feeling in the matter they were likely to do. This was the very
oint which John said they intended Mr. A, to remember, - Again,
ask what explanation can we give of this apart from man’s con-
ecious existence in the spirit world during rest hours ?
THE CONVEYANCE 01* MESSAGES BY'THfl SPIRITS OP SLEEPING „
MORTALS. . •»
About a month after Mr, Meers, the medium, left the English
shores for New Zealand, a few friends met to spend a social even¬
ing together. In the course of the evening Emma Hardinge said:
“ A spirit of a coloured person is standing there who desires me to
tell you that he has ft message from your friend Mr. Meers.” She
described the messenger as having a black skin, but she perceived
that he was good at heart. Mrs, Everitt became entranced, and it
Was written through her hand that Mr. Meers and family had all
been very ill, that they had had some very rough weather; then
followed a request that we would wri .e down the date and the hour.
The messenger told Emma Hardinge that his name was Zambia,
and that he wished us to send a message by him to Mr, Meers,
which we did, He soon returned and said: “ He thanks you, but
will give you a direct message himself.” Almost directly after¬
wards Emma said r ” There is Mr. Meets,” Mrs. Everitt also saw
him while in the trance, and talked to him; he gave her some in¬
formation upon a subject of which she had previously some doubts.
He also wrote the following—so characteristic of himself—“ My
dear, dear friends, thanks, many many thanks for your love and
good wishes; a spirit messenger has just brought it; he says than
although he is black in skin he is white in heart.” Several other
interesting statements were given, but I must not enlarge. I sent
the account to Mr. Meers, and on turning to his diary he found that
all particulars exactly corresponded, even to the very language of
the messenger, who told him that his name was “ Zambia,” and
that '‘ although he was black in skin he was white in heart.”
In Aridther letter I received from Mr. Meers he told me he had
Visited me twice; he also mentioned the place and the hour, what I
Was doing, and what he did to arrest my attention. Although I
did not notice at the time what he did for that pui'pose, I have
reason to believe that every particular in that respect also was
strictly correct'. Suffering as I was from an accident at the time he
mentioned, I was probably in the place he stated I was, and doing
that very hour what ho said I was doing, and which he helped me
to do, p'robably by sympathy. In the same letter he added: “ I
believe from my past’ experience that I shall be able to visit your
circle and converse audibly with you.” This he accomplished at
15, Southampton-row, in the hearing of fifteen persons, and it was
fully reported in the Mtdiurti of December, 1870.
Not only has Mr. Meers visited us in his abnormal state, but
Mrs; Everitt; when entranced on one occasion, visited him, and,
when she returned to her normal condition, gave us the parti¬
culars of what she saw: She said that she entered his garden by
a gate and went up a path which led to the house, which stood iu
the garden; and it was either painted white or whitewashed. She
gave a description of the Style of the house and its surroundings.
She followed Mr. Meers out of the garden, which was full of
flowers, into the house, saw Mrs. Meers and the children, told us
how healthy they looked, and how the children had grown, espe¬
cially Rosinai Mrs. EVeritt knew at the time that she was present
with them, and thought, “ Well, if this is a dream, it is a very real
ond,” but she could not tell how she got there or how she came
back. In Mr. Meers’s letter in reply to mine, he said the account
was true in every particular, and added that had it been at any
other time of the year his children would not have been at home}
had it been ady other time of the day he would have been at busi¬
ness ; but his children were homo for their Christmas. holidays,'
and he was at home foT his dinner. He also said he was quite
certain that no one could have given such an accurate description
who had not actually visited the place.
I might continue by giving fact upon fact, that assurance might
be made doubly sure, but I must conclude with what John Watt
has repeatedly affirmed, namely, that he has heard me on more
than one occasion Addressing spirits upon the possibility of mutual
intercourse between the inhabitants of the natural and spiritual
worlds, and that I have encouraged them to try for themselves, by
relating my own personal experiences. John says it is not- an
uncommon thing fOT Spiritualists to be thus employed when they
are consciously in the spirit world; a circumstance that will help
to explain the readiness with which some persons accept the truth*
of spirit communion, having already been made acquainted with it
while on the other side. I submit, then, that the facts which I have
stated absolutely prove that man has A twofold, existence—that ho
lives, thinks, and acts both in the natural and the spiritual worlds
Also, that while he is still a denizen of earth, he has a life of yet
higheT thoughts, affections, and activities on the plane above; thus
there is presumptive evidence that, sinco the real man can even*
now live, to a large extent, independently of physical laws, ho will
Continue to live a higher and a freer life when the restraints of hia
earthly tabernacle have been put off for ever. (Applause.)
The Chairman said: It is often demanded of Spiritualists that
they should give more facts and fewer theories ; but I think that
Mr. Everitt, at all events, has well supported his arguments w.ih
facts. (Applause,)
Mr. T. H. Noyes, B.A. (Oxon), said that he had not intended to
come to the meeting, but that the invisible beings with whom he
was in Communication had requested him to attend, and they would
now say a few words through his organism. “ We have no more
difficulty in using the mouth of this medium now than our own;
we can confirm all that Mf. Everitt has said. When your bodies
are asleep your spirits are awake, and doing their work; we are
aerials who live in the aiT and work through mediums; every man,'
woman, or child is more or less a medium, The thoughts which flash
through your mindsare every one of themspirit thoughts, though you
"may not know it, or think that spirits arousing you; your thoughts
are only partially your own, the ideas being flashed into your minds
by mesmeric inffuerice, just as you by experiment can influence the
thoughts of a sleeping child. Children are more, easily influenced
than others; as you‘grow older your spiritual faculties are more
deadened by the influence of the earthly body accreted upon the
spiritual body, much as the electrotypor’s metal accretes itself upon
the mould. When you come to the spirit world you will come
there only for a time; you will have to return to earth and to take
on an earthly body over and over and over again; for we tell you
that the doctrine of Allan KardeC is perfectly true. We tell you
that wo have lived over and over again, and that you will have to
do so too, (A Voice: “ Keep to the subject.”) We are speaking
strictly, strictly, strictly to the text. When you return you will
246
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 19, 1875.
return into tlie families of those connected with you—into those of
your descendants or their collateral relations, and you will receive
in the life beyond the present life your reward for what you have
done in the flesh.”
Mr.- Coates, of Liverpool, said: As a provincial Spiritualist
visiting London f >r the first time, I wish to say to niy brethren
present a few words which I hope will be received in a friendly
way. I feel that I am speaking to those who are advanced iu
knowledge, who have studied iu various schools of thought, and
who are far more able to consider these subjects than I am, especially
as I have been more accustomed to the use of the oar than to public
speaking. Among the spirits who attend me are some who were
mesmerists in earth-life, and through them I have induced some of
the phenomena mentioned by Mr. Everitt in his paper 5 [ have
noticed that in the mesmeric trance the mind is more quickened, more
active, than it is in its everyday condition, and I have noticed that
when mesmeric patients resume their normal condition, they do not
recollect anything that has occurred in their mesmeric sleep ; when
they go to sleep again they take up their existence at the point
where they left off in their previous sleep. This has demonstrated to
me that although our bodies require rest to build up the tissues of
the b- idy and of the brain—for these material parts of the
organism are but the servants of thought, formed to put its behests
into action—the spirit of man does not require rest or material
food, yet it must be continually fed. It wishes for that mental
food which will enable it to solve the problems of life here and
hereafter. I am perfectly satisfied from my mesmeric experiences
that we live a dual life, and that we are learning lessons of life in
this material world, which will more or less lit as for the better and
brighter land beyond, of which we may catch a glance now and
again.
Mr. Thomas Shorter, late editor of the Spiritual Magazine, said:
We are indebted to Mr. Everitt for the valuable facts which he has
communicated, though I think that the question may be raised
whether he has put correct interpretations upon the facts which he
has put forward, for the experiences related may be peculiar to those
ersons who are known as mediums. The facts he has brought
efore us prove spirit communion, but do not seem to demonstrate
that sleeping persons have experiences of their own in the spirit
world, because a biologist can make a mesmeric sensitive, who is but
a medium, believe that he is where he is not, and mediums may be
in some such psychological state. I utterly and entirely repudiate
what has been said through Mr. Noyes, and will never receive any
statement upon the authority of a spirit unless facts are given which
we can understand and weigh for ourselves. (Applause ) I re¬
member my dreams sometimes; they are always about most ridicu¬
lous and impossible things; but of the alleged real experiences of
the spiiit duribg rest hours I have no recollection whatever.
Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton said: Mr. Meers is a personal friend of
my own. He has given me the same account of the incidents which
Mr. Everitt has related to this meeting, so I can fully confirm Mr.
Everitt’s statements in every respect. Mr. Meers is a truthful and
reliable man.
Mr. G. R. Tapp said: Mr. Everitt has set a good example by
keeping to facts. About eight months ago an old friend of mine
and myself were discussing tbis very subject of the possibility of
the spirit being free during the sleep of the body, also of its being
able to influence the thoughts of a distant friend at all times, so we
resolved to try to reduce these matters to experiment. We resolved
to try by will-power to influence each others thoughts at different
times during the whole week, and agreed to enter in our noiebooks
the exact time at which we attempted to do so, or thought that we
felt the influence of each other, so that we could compare notes
afterwards. We found, however, that our emries did not agree at
all. But one night a very curious thing took place. I woke up in
the middle of the night—which I am not in the habit of doing—
and had a deep conviction that he was in the room, so full of
trouble that he did not know what to do. He afterwards told me
that he was iu a great deal of trouble that evening, although it was
not usual for anything to annoy him more than once in two or three
years; but that evening he was so much annoyed about something,
that he wrote and tore up several letters relating thereto.
Mr. Harrison said that he could confirm what Mr. Tapp had said,
because he was the other person who took part in carrying out the
experiments.
Dr. Nichols wanted to know what was the difference between
what Mr. Everitt had said and clairvoyance. In the history of the
Christian Church many such facts were on record; one saint who
lived in Naples went into a trance of many hours duration, and on
coming to himself said that he had been to Rome, and that the Pope
of that period, whose name he could not remember, had died. The
saint further said that he atrended him in his dyingraomeuts. There
were no telegraphs iu those days, but two days afterwards the facts
were confirmed.
Dr. Clark said that 400 or 500 years ago people spent much time
in debating bow many spirits could stand on the point of a needle,
and he felt that the discussion of reincarnation was just as profitable.
Some of Mr. Everitt's facts, if admitted, seemed to show that a man
had two physical bodies. He remembered a case where a man who
wished to see a friend of his, went to sleep in his office; at the same
time there was a knock at the door of his friend’s house, and the
servant who answered it found a gentleman there who asked if her
master- was in. This was what the sleeping gentleman intended to
do, although he never did it. His surprise was great on receiving a
letter from his distant friend, saving that he was sorry that he wn's
from home at the time he called. The servant, who did not know
him, had not only given his name, but minutely described his dress
and appearance. There was another well-authenticated story of a
gentleman who went to see his lawyer j he had never been in the
office before, yet recognised the place and remembered a picture
which he saw upon the wall. The lawyer said that it was impos¬
sible. for the picture was a heirloom which had been in his family
for 150 years j but the other responded that he knew what was
written on the other side of the picture, and on taking it down the
assertion proved to be correct. There were plenty of such extra¬
ordinary cases, which might be theorised upon, but the difficulty
was to verify the theories.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that he thought that the statements of
Dr Clark were at variance with his own assumptions j he said that the
gentleman did not go to see his friend; but as the servant saw him
and described him, and gave his name, it Was proof that she did see
him, and not that the intelligent part of himself was absent.. There
was in London at the present time a lady who was a clairvoyant
and trance medium, and one evening she said that she saw aperson in
the circle who lived 120 miles away in the country; the medium fur¬
ther said that this friend was present, and wanted to control her J she
then went into a trance, and gave a peculiar message, so peculiar
that there could be no mistake about it j he wrote to his friend in
the country, who was a clairvoyant and mesmeric sensitive, and
simply asked her, “ Do you recollect seeing me last night ? ’’ By
the next post she replied that she had seen him at a Stance With
Mrs. Earl Bird at Brixton; she further told him the names of the
persons present, and repeated the exact words of the peculiar
message which had been delivered. This was a clear case, about
which there could be no mistake, and all the parties concerned were
honourable people. (Applause.)
Mr. Humphreys remarked that the facts seemed to prove that
whether men were in the body or out of it, they were always in a
spiritual condition.
Mr. Noyes said j It is of great importance to prove the doctrine
of reincarnation. (Cries of “ That’s not the subject,” and “ Keep
to the point.”)
The Chairman said 1 The subject of reincarnation is not before
us this evening, and I regret that I must rule you down. I have
no desire to burke the subject, which I think ought to be as well
ventilated as any other.
Mr. Everitt then said a few words in reply to the various speakers.
THE DISSEMINATION OF SPIRITUALISM AMONG THE WORKING-
CLASSES.
Mr. R. Pearce then read the following paper, which had been
Written and sent to the Conference by Mr. J. T. Rhodes, of New¬
castle:—
In transferring to paper a few rambling thoughts on the above
subject, I am fully conscious of my own inafcility to do justice to
it, much less to make an exhaustive essay; but, nevertheless, the
subject under consideration is one that a working man or Woman
is well qualified to give an opinion upon, and, to a certain extent,
answer personally—granting that both know something of the
phenomena of modern Spiritualism.
A great deal1 has been said about the “ working-man ” of late
years, and it maybe conceded at once that we# are, most of us,
working mep in some form or the other—from the Prime Minister
down to Bill Jones, who pushes his barrow along the street, laden
with fish from Billingsgate, or turnips from CoVent-garden. But
I take it for granted that the working-classes here understood are the
ordinary wage earning artisans, mechanics and labourers, and tke!r
families j and the question is whether the dissemination of Spirit¬
ualism among these classes will have any effect of importance, as
exerting a religious influence upon them.
WHY THE CHURCHES CANNOT REACH THE WORKING-CLASSES.
This at Once opens the question, what religious influence that
portion of the community is under at the present time, and I think
I may say fearlessly that the majority of the working-classes
are under little or none. The national church has certainly but
little hold on them, and there is no doubt that the old-fashioned pew
system has had something to do with tbis. The dissenters have
more hold, and among them we do not find that inequality, nor the
haughty and patronising air of the squire and his wife towards the
pporer members of their congregations—besides which their class
meetings and their love-feasts produce more harmonious relations
with one another.
Not long ago Cardinal Manning quoted statistics to show that
the church accommodation for all religious denominations was en¬
tirely inadequate in proportion to the population of the country, but
there can be no doubt to iny mind that the present accommodation
is equal to the demand; if that is correct, the question arises why
the demand is not greater. That materialism is spreading through
the land there can be no doubt, and one has only to consider the
thousands upon thousands of Sunday newspapers that are sold, to
show that working-men prefer reading them to going to church and
listening to the parson.
It is not very long ago that a Church of England priest attached
to a “ high church ” iu the N.W. district of London, in the course
of conversation asked me why it was that working-men would not
come to church. 1 replied that, in the first place, they had little
Nov. 19, 1875.
THU SPIRITUALIST.
247
faith in the orthodox teachings of the Church, and that in
many cases their highest enjoyments did not extend beyond their
pipe, their beer, and newspaper. “ But,” I said, “ if you supplied
them with spiritual food suited to the requirements of the present
age they would accept it.”
If I am right in the above opinion I think we may accept it as evi¬
dence that woi king-men are U"t entirely indifferent to spiritual sub¬
jects ; the fact is further proved in that large numbers go and listen to
Dean Stanley, Mr. Spurgeon, Cardinal Manning, Mr. Punshon, the
Bishop of Manchester, and othel* popular speakers and preachers,
including Mrs. Tappan. Not long ago she was in Newcastle; at
each of the Sunday services quite a thousand persons were present,
and a glance at the audience was sufficient to show that the majority
consisted of respectable, intelligent-looking colliery hands with
their wives and families,
But I find I am digressing a little, for what I wanted to refer to
especially was that a few weeks after this conversation with the
Church of England priestj a course of sermons Was announced, and
among them two “for working-men only," inviting them to come in
their working-clothes, and all seats free. The consequence was
that the. church was full of just the very persons they wanted to
get there on each occasion.
THE USE OF SFIKITUAldSM to WORKIHG-MENi
With the spread of education of late years working-men are be¬
coming inore independent, and think more for themselves; that
they are possessed of some of the noblest traitti of character to be
found iil any class of society is evidenced by the fact of the different
organisations and societies they have originated and carried on for
the benefit of one another. Take for instance the temperance move¬
ment-spreading its cause from a few men of Preston through the
land) till the Church of England, the last in the movement, has been
boilnd to take sides in the question, and Her Majesty has just be¬
come the patroness. The same may be said of other organisations,
both political and social, and if we take the religioh of Jesus of
Nhfe&reth we find that the common people “heard Him gladly."
This will no doubt be the case with the Spiritualism of modern
days, with its attendant phenomena; it is all the more necessary that
the subject should be disseminated among them, because just in pro¬
portion to the want of education or religious influence among them,
do they lead sensual lives. “ Let us eat, drink, and be merry, for
to-morrow we die,” is always the language of those whose know¬
ledge of their nature is limited to their animal propensities. If we
can show them, as Spiritualism alone can do, that “ if a man die he
shall live again,” it gives them an impetus to live out their true
nature ihtellectually and spiritually. Let a man once realise the
fact that he is surrounded by spiritual beings cognisant of all his
actions) it will deter him from many fen evil action ; it will enable
him to understand, to an ektent that he never did before, the true
import of the words, “ Thou, 0 God, seest me,” It may be urged
that a man deterred from evil actions by the fear of observation is
not very virtuous. True, but “ the fear of the Lord is the begin¬
ning of wisdom," and a man who begins to regulate his thoughts
and actions first from a fear of the consequences, eventually loves
to do right for the right's sake, and just in proportion as the toiling
masses of the community are brought under good influence and the
true knowledge of their nature, so Will the nation be benefited
thereby, because, as I think all will admit, the prosperity of Eng¬
land depends, to a great extent, upon its sons of toil.
That the present time is a critical one with us is easily to be
observed if we look at the conflict that is taking place between
capital and labour, between temperance and drunkenness, religion
and immorality, and I think I may safely say also between Spirit¬
ualism and Materialism, I think it just possible that it will be for
Spiritualism to lay the axe at the root of the tree of ignorance, and
Wing it low with all its branches) to teach men that they have a
spiritual body (not as matter of belief, but as one of demonstrated
fact) as well as a natural body; that they live in two worlds at the
present time; that when this natural body is cast off they live
again, and that they must be judged according to the deeds done in
the body, whether they be good or evil; that they, and they alone,
mhst suffer the consequences of their own actions; that they must
learn rather what they must “ do " to be saved, than what they must
“ believe; ” that they must “ work out their own salvation, though
it be with fear and trembling, either in the darkness, or with cour¬
age, help, and guidance in the new spiritual light of modern reve¬
lations, When these things are brought home to men as the result
of hard facts within the cognisance ot each, it is then man will feel
that he can, and must, love his neighbour as himself, live for others
as well as himself, live a pure and holy life, worshipping God in
spirit and in truth.
UNION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Before closing this paper, I would earnestly suggest that, the
British National Association of Spiritualists spare no effort to reach
the intelligent portion of the working-classes, as it is they Who
come in contact with the less intelligent portion of the community,
and are better able to introduce it among their fellows than persons
in a higher sphere of intellectual life. The subject would be
listened to from persons in a similar sphere of society rather than
from more educated, per sons; this is evidenced by the way in which
they will go and listen to preachers of the Richard Weaver and
Ned Wright class; also in temperance, the orator who is a “navvy "
or a “corporal*' in one of Her Majesty's regiments is hailed with
delight. Even in Spiritualism how many even at present among
the good and active workers are working-men. We have here in
the North, for instance, a Mr. Brown, of Howden-le-Wear, by
Darlington. I have had the pleasure of listening to his trance
addresses in private and public, and I may safely say that no better
man can be found to carry on the work among his fellow-men.
Again I would earnestly ask the Association to help these workers
in their cause.
Nor do I think that we, as working-men, will be indifferent to
the subject because it is spread, or helped to be so, by an Associa¬
tion. We always welcome the effort of the National Temperance
League, and we, as working-men, know, and no one better, the
value of co-operative, friendly, and building societies and trades
unions) indeed, the value of organisation in general, and also that
organisations are set in motioh) not to benefit the promoters, but
those outside their pale, whom it is wished to draw within. Al¬
though it is by individual effort alone that the bee is enabled to
gather honey) we know also that it is by united effort and harmony
of action that the grand organisation raises tne structure for the
benefit of all. (Applause.)
Mn G: B; Galloway said that he was a native of Newcastle, and
in listening to the excellent paper which had been sent to the Con¬
ference by a resident in that town, he had felt an amount of pleasure
which he could scarcely express. The mission of Spiritualism was
to establish A spiritual chufdh, which would do its work among a
class Which had been far toO much neglected; He hoped that wdrk
of this kind would not be lost sight of by Spiritualists in London,
whose example was so much followed iu the country. He would
take part in any steps that the Association might take in the
mattef) and Would give all the help he could.
Mf. Herbert Noyes, Ufider spirit influence, said that the powers
controlling him wished to say a few words on this subject) because
it Was the most important which had been brought before the
meeting; it wAs important because the Working-classes formed the
great majority of the residents in this country; and Were more
ready to receive Spiritualism than the upper classes, though the
upper classes were also very ready, because the ecclesiastics had
heaped up so much rubbish that people could not swallow all they
taught; The working-classes led more natural lives; and those
who did so were more ready to receive influence from the spirit
world than others; people who led unnatural lives were always
obscuring their highest faculties. They ought to live more in the
open air, and to take in the influence of the sun and stars; also to
live upon the best of food. Unless people spent much time in the
open air they were not so easily influenced by spirits.
Mr. Ashman said that he believed he was the only one present
who was personally acquainted with the gentleman Who had sent
the paper which had just been read, and he was glad that it came
from a working-man.* He hoped that the Association would allow
the working-classes to come upon its platform and to speak; (Heitr,
hear, and applause.) Until the platform was open more to the
working-classes it would not succeed. Spiritualism was a good
thing to teach the rich how to live and the poor how to die. Very
■ likely the gentleman who Wrote that paper would not have been
asked to speak had he been present; Where were meetings free
where the working-classes could say what they pleased?
Mr» Dawson Rogers: Why, you are saying what you please
now. (Laughter.)
Mn Ashman continued: I say again; where is tnere a plat¬
form in London where working men like Mr. Rhodes can say
what they please ?
The Chairman said: I must here interpose; This is the fifrst
time the thought has ever crossed my mind that there was the
slightest idea anywhere that anybody had any thoughts of shut¬
ting out any individual Spiritualist. . (Hear, hear, and applause.)
the Sfational Association believes in manhood suffrage, therefore
it has made its rates so loW that the poorest can join, and it invites,
and always has inVited, every individual and every society in the
country to come in and co-operate with it; (Applause.) Its
poorest subscribers are on terms of equality with the rich, all
have but one vote, and all are eligible for election to the presi¬
dential office. You have in the chair at the present moment one
who has been a working-man from his cradle to the present hour,
and I have found that the platform of the Association has been as
free to myself and to other working-men as to persons holding the
highest social positions; (Applause.)
Mr. J. J. Morse said that he had read the prospectus of the
Association, which invited everybody to help in its work. He was
very pleased to see before him a working-man in the chair, another
upon the platform, a third by his side; another the author of the
paper, and a fourth standing in his own boots. (Applause.) He
added that it was a libel on Spiritualism to say that its platform did
not.take in working-men; He had never been at any Conference
which had not been free to all classes of Spiritualists; all that
could possibly be done was done to supply platforms, but it was
nobody’s duty to. drag people in if they aid not come of their own
accord. He thought the paper just read to be opportune; Spirit¬
ualism must be brought to all classes—also to science, to the Church,
and to society—in order to give clearer ideas of morality and spirit¬
uality; he therefore hoped that some practical measures would be
taken to carryout the suggestions of Mn Rhodes. The Association
had succeeded well in the past, and he had no doubt it would con-
* Mr. Rhodes is the corespondent of THe SpirituaHtt in Newcastle.—Ed.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 19, 1875.
tinue to do so in the future, so he hoped that Mr. Ashman would
reconsider his words.
Mr. Rogers said that, as a member of the Council, he was one
of those who hadio select the papers to he read at the Conference,
and the paper just read had been put on the list for the express
purpose of drawing out working-meu, and giving them facilities to
speak upon the point. They had plenty of papers in the other room,
sent in to be r.ead at the Conference, but which could not be read
for want of time; the one which had been read had been accorded
precedence of the others for the very reason that it had been written
by a working-man. (Applause.)
Dr. Nichols said that the mission of Spiritualism should be
carried'out; ft sought to teach men how to live a spiritual life, and
proved that it was a matter of some importance how men live. If
the facts wer'e indeed facts, 'equal to those produced in a court of
justice, and if these facts were brought home to the personal know¬
ledge of the hard-headed practical working-men of England, the^
would form a corner-stone of safety to bring about their physical
and moral salvation.
Dr. Clark said that he had listened to the paper with much
pleasure, and that the author had worked both with his hand and
his brain. In England materialism was making great progress
amongst working-men, but not so in Scotland andVIreland; this
whs the case in England becatise they supposed the Church to be
against them, and because they looked upoii capitalists as their
natural enemies, whose Church gave them no standing.
Mr. R, Pearce said that for five years he had been secretary to
an association composed entirely of working-men, and had seen the
influence which it had exerted upon them. As secretary to the St.
John’s Association, he had visited them in their own homes at all
times of the day; and at all seasons—at times when they were flush
of money, and at times when they had none at all: He had heard
their wives speak of the changes in their husbands, and mothers of
the changes in their sons, in consequence of their having adopted
Spiritualism, and they bad invariably testified that it exerted an
influence for good: (Applause.) He had been present at the death¬
beds of several of these persons, and had found that Spiritualism
hhd exerted a good influence there! He himself came from Corn¬
wall, where there was much Wesleyan Methodism and revivalism,
but the influence tVhich they exerted was ndt .of a permanent
character. ErOm Spiritualism he had never known a convert, to go
back ; he had, howevfer, known them to leave off drinking, to get
better houses; tp lead better lives, and to begin to Educate their
ch/ldren. All these things he stated from personal knowledge.
He therefore thought that efforts should be made to spread a
knowledge of Spiritualism everywhere among working men.
(Applauee.)
A paper by Mt. Thomas Blyton was then read, which we will
give in the continuation of this rep jrt in the next number of The
Spiritualist.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
ThE second session of the Psychological Society was opened on
Thursday, the 4th inst., at its new permanent rooms, 11, Ghandos-
street, Cavendish-square; Mr: Serjeant Cox occupied the chain
During the recess the society had secured the rooms above men¬
tioned, and excellent accommodation was offered to the members
and visitors who attended. Among those present were Professor
Plumptre, Mn George Harris, Mr. Percival, Mr. F. Jv. Munton and
Mrs. Munton, Mr. Stephens, and Mr. Coffin.
The President, who was warmly received, delivered his annual
address, of which the following is an abstract:—
The mere fact that thiy society is alive, and likely to live, is a
matter for hearty congratulation with psychologists everywhere,
for it was formed and is flourishing in despite of many confident
prophecies of failure to find supporters, of impracticability in the
subjects to be handled. These evil whisperings would have
sufficed to deter from exertion almost any but the earnest men
who had united their energies in the full conviction that psychology
was a science as real and substantial as physiology or biology; that
it was not, as its opponents aver, a vague and visionary pursuit,
dealing only with cobwebs of the brain, having no foundation in
facts, and not to be proved by observation and experiment. We
had, all of us* the most confident conviction that psychology is
as solid and real a science as are any of the physical sciences;
that it is to be pursued by the same processes and with equal
reliance upon the results of investigations into actual pheno¬
mena, instead of the metaphysical abstractions and the delusive
study of the inner consciousness by which its progress had
been hitherto impeded. We had also a profound conviction
that psychology had been lately growing in the estimation of the
public, who were beginning to perceive its important bearings upon
the past, present, and the future of the human race. The fact was
patent to all who mingled with educated society that the uninquiring
faith which had induced the almost universal acceptance of the
existence and immortality of soul as an indisputable truth was being
widely disturbed by the doctrines of materialism, which professed
to show by scientific evidence that this faith was not justified—that
soul was a dream or a dogma merely. There had long been plainly
•visible to all who looked behind the scenes of society a painful dis¬
turbance of mind, that induced among tfee thoughtful an anxious
desire to find some gleam of hope somewhere, some path that might
conduct to a determination of the painful doubts that oppressed
them.
It was in such a condition of the public mind in relation to psy¬
chology that this society issued its prospectus. The result has far
surpassed the anticipation of any of its promoters. From all parts
of the country have come words of encouragement and promises of
support. In a week succbss was kssured; The first meeting will
not readily feb forgotten; The great room was crowded, and many
were unable to find a place: Opponents and friends were
equally eager to learn what the society proposed for the
subjects of its inquiries and its mbthods of pursuing them.
There is nothing in psychology to exempt it from the principle's and
rules and mbthods of study that attach to all.other branches of.
natural sciencb. The sciences of magnetism and electricity are
learned by observation of and experiment Upon the action- Upon
perceptible matter of forces that are themselves imperceptible.' So
we contend that psychology must be learned by observation and
experiment upon the action of the vital, mental, and psychic forces
that, like the forces of magnetism and blectricity, are themselves
imperceptible;
This programme of the practical scheme of the society was
widely circulated and extensively noticed by thb press; by some
severely criticised; by many warmly bulogised, by others abtisbd,
according to the preconceptions of tnb several reviewers. The ob¬
jections were, however, not so various as numerous; They resoJVed
themselves into the following:—
The first was that raised at the meeting—to thb rigid excluSibn
bf theological discussion and reference;
To permit theological reference would bb to drown discussions bf
psychological questions in disputes about theological authority. All
men may be brought to agree about a scib’ntific fact, and even differ
without quarrelling about the inferences to be drawn from it; but if
Mr. Smith were permitted to quote a tbit as conclusive, Mr. Jones
would dispute the authority of the text or cite some other, and the
evening would be occupied in endless connict, that would be properly
raised in a sectarian assembly, but which would ob utterly
out of place in a scientific meeting. The rule is not ours only: It
is bommon to all societies whose object is the. pursuif of puts
scietice.
Another objection proceeded from an opposite quarter, and is
entitlbd to more respect. An extensive and important class of
mental and psychical phenomena, not yet scientifically investigated-
with a view to learn by careful experiment and conclusive tests
what are their true nfeture and sources, havb bebri made the basis
of what may be termed a religion, or certain unproved assumptions
as to the agencies by which they are produced; B^ the votaries of
this sect our society was assailed, because it did not give to
Spiritualism (which ife the name assumed by this new faith) a pro¬
minent place in its programme". “You ignore,” they said, “a
series of phenomena directly associated with psychology, and strive
to- build up a science without the" facts that most bear upon it.-” *
Our answer is brief. We do, and intend to do; nothing of the
kind. Wb‘ do not recognise your theory of causes; we cannot
accept the assumption upon which you have erected your faith and
taken your title. We do not Venture without investigation to
assert that you are wrong, but we hold that your assumption is as
yet wholly Unproved, according to the reasonable requirements of
scientific evidence. The asserted phenomena require to be exa¬
mined by more crucial tests and more cautious experiments than
have been yet applied to them, before their existence, and, still
more, their extent and nature, can be accepted as the basis up jn
which to found scientific conclusions; From their very nature, and
from the conditions of their manifestation, they are peculiarly liable
to be the slibjects for imposture by knaves and delusion by dupes*
Frauds are confessedly frequent, and, therefore, nothing can b»
accepted as proved that is not obtained under tests that are crucial,
and by evidence that is conclusive# Ask us to apply such tests*
and offer to us such evidence, and the society will gladly try the
truth of any asserted phenomena without prejudice, and report upon
them honestly; As yet you have shown to science nothing more
than that there is something that demands patient investigation*
But your very name assumes a conclusion which a society for
scientific research cannot recognise. The asserted facts and phe¬
nomena will, indeed, be entitled to, and will receive, a fair exami¬
nation, in common with all other facts and phenomena relating to
psychology, and, so far as they are found to be true, will be admitted
to that storehouse of facts which it is the primary purpose of all
scientific societies to accumulate, and without which no science can
be securely constructed.
The Council have had under their consideration an application
from many quarters to admit ladies as members. They have come
i to the conclusion that it is extremely desirable that ladies should
attend the meetings of the Society, and the example of other
scientific societies has encouraged them to the partial adoption of the
proposal. Sufficient reasons were adduced why it would be inex¬
pedient to admit ladies to full membership; but it has been resolved
unanimously to issue ladies’ admission tickets at half the ordinary
* This is the first we have heard of the Psychological Society being
assailed Oy any Spiritual'sts, and we deny that that society is investi¬
gating the facts'with more accuracy than was done before'it Oame into
existem e.—iso.
Nov. 19, 1875.
249
THE SPIKITUALIST.
subscription (viz., at ond guinea for the year), which Tvill ad bait
them to all meetings of the society, save STjch as may be specially
excepted, and of which dlie notice will be igiven;
When opportunity pccurs, or permissioa' for investigation is
offered, personal examination under sufficient tests will be given
to any phenomena brolight under the notice of the society with a
view to ascertain the truth, and fully and fhifly report the result.
Especially do we ask medical men, who have the most fre¬
quent and perfect opportunities for witnessing psychological phe¬
nomena, to assist our endeavours by transmitting cases that octtur
in tboir own practice, not with names, of course, but as they ttom-
municate their ordinary medical cases to the medical journals. We
should aecept such reports on their authority, withholding thbir
own names if so desiredi
As the society has now a settled habitation, where all dom-
hiunications may be made, information given, and its publica¬
tions procured, it may not be out of place to suggest that we
should begin at once to lay the foundation of a psychological
library. Nothing of the kind exists at present in the United King¬
dom, and of its value and utility there cannot be two opinions.*
But the society cannot afford to buy. Like hll sinlilar societies, it
inUst look to presentations of books front its members, and those
\vho take an interest in its objects.
Mr. George Harris, in riloVing a vote of thanks to the President.
Which whs carried by acclamation, dwelt upon the importance of
the study of psychology, find the success which hkd attended many
great nien from their having studied mankind. He mentioned
especially the first Napoleon, whose great victories were mainly
secured by his consummate management of all classes of men with
whom he came into contact.
Mn Miinton spoke at some length on the points of the presi¬
dent’s address. As to the invited communications of psycholo¬
gical phenomena, he said that the society wished that every
contributor would carefully examine into the alleged facts before
Committing them to papeh He himself had taken sever*! oppor¬
tunities during the past year of investigating the alleged pheno¬
mena, and had very often discovered a missing link which deprived
the assertions made of all value. He had, however, convinced
himself of the genuineness of many of the cases referred to, though
his doubts as to the natdre of the agency at work remained the
same. Hesitation in assigning a cause Was of course quite another
thing to disputing facts, and he was surprised at the singular
obstinacy of many men of great intellect, who would not trouble
even to inquire. The society would continue to approach the
Consideration of all cordmunications of phenomena without any
foregone conclusions, and he felt assured that great benefit would
accrue to the community by the society’s operations.
A list of the ordinary members elected since the last meeting was
then readj aniong others was Mr. Chas. Staniland Wake, one of
the vice-presidents of the Anthropological Society, who also has
been invited to join the Council of the Psychological Society.
During the recess several honorary and corresponding members
have been elected, among others Capt. Kichard Burton, the traveller,
and Dr. Richardson, F.R.S.
Some communications of psychological phenomena were then
read to the society, one being an instance of remarkable mental
sympathy, and another of a dream of events occurring at a distance
with most minute detail of circumstances.
SPIRITUALISM IN I&LINGtOft.
Mft. Bullock, and Mfs. Bullock the trance medium, took a house
about nine months figo, with a small hall for public meetings
attached, at 19, Church-street, Upper-street, Islington, London;
they have thus been enabled to carry on Sunday services, week-day
seances, and other meetings in that locality, and to gather around
them new inquirers as well as several of the late members of the
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, which formerly existed in
Clerkenwell. Once a quarter they hold social meetings, and one of
these gatherings took place last Sunday evening. The proceedings
began at five o’clock by serving out tea to the assembled friends
and at seven o’clock the business of the evening commenced, under
the presidency of Mr. John Swinton.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM ?
Dr. Hallock said that he would try to answer the question,
“ What is Spiritualism?” • To the outside world it was superstition,
fraud, folly, and everything that was bad; but the question was
not easy to answer, on the same principle that neither the fool nor
the philosopher knew what electricity was, but could define it only
by describing its qualities. To many persons Spiritualistn was too
much of an amusement, too much confined to the family altar,
around which a few private friends gathered after the duties of the
day were over. He did not see that there was harm in this, indeed
it was beneficial that such a system of bringing Spiritualism into
practice was used so fully. But it was necessary to make as broad
* This is altogether a mistake. The National Association of Spiritualists,
88, Gr^at Bussell-street, has the finest library of psychological books in
the world, many ot them unprocurable elsi where.—Kd.
a distinction between Spiritualism and Spiritualists as between the
eternal laws of justice and the law administered by a justice of the
peace. (Laughter.) Spiritualism was a thing which permeated all
mankind, whether they knew it or not; it was the unfolding of a
set of principles to overturn the errors of the past as now preached
in all the cathedrals in this and other lands; Some thought that
Spiritualists obtained their teachings altogether through mediums,
but it was .not so: for instance, the Church taught that there was a
bottomless pit for a certain set of people ; now Spiritualists did not
need to be told through a medium that this was a fallacy.' The facts
of Spiritualisna proved it to be an error, since some of their friends
who were supposed by the Church to be hanging on to the sides of
the bottomless lime-kiln (Laughter) manifested at Spirit circles, so
they could not be in both places at the same time. (Applause;) Truly
those friends were not in a very progressive or happy state; Mr.
and Mrs. Bullock had settled down in that neighbourhood to teach
men the truth about these things. The people had been taught by
their forefathers that they could sin and afterwards escape the con¬
sequences, but Spiritualists knew better; they knew that there was
no forgiveness whatever for the breaking of a law of nature, for if
men broke laws they would have to pfty the penalty;
Mf. Towns then pkssed info the trance state, and under inspira¬
tional influence gave a short address, in the course of \thich he said
that there was no turning hell; hell was a mental and spiritual
stale to be found everywhere where people created it ■vidthin their
own hearts by breaking natural laws ; if they broke any natural
laiv, no matter whether it were of a inoral or physical nature, they
had to abide by the conditions of thkt law, punishment being the
necessary consoquetlce. Those who lived in hell did so because
they made their dt^n conditions, and those conditions were not
made by their Father in heaven.
Mr; Lawrence then passed into, the trance state, and gave an
address under the control of a spirit who asserted himself to be
William Tyndal, one of the earlier translators of the Bible;
Mr. Stevens said that he had been turned out of the Chdrch
because he was in favour of utilitarianism; not the utilitarisinisni
of the materialists; but that utilitirianism which sought not only to
accept Christianity, but to put it into use, and to endeavour, in daily
life, to follow the examples set by the saints of old. In pictures
hanging in the homes of the orthodox, angels were represented
around the beds of the dying, yet when Spiritualists taught tKis to
be true their testimony was rejected. He did not see what spe'cial
use spirits were dfound the bedsides of the dying from the orthodox
point of view, because if a bad man died the devil would have him
and look very sharp after him, whilst if he were a gofcftl man he
would be claimed by holier beings: so in either case he was sure to
be looked after pretty closely at death, without the intervention of
special ministering spirits, who were more likely to come, as was
known to be the case by Spiritualists, when men wanted their help,
namely, in times of trouble, weakness, sickness, and poverty.
(Applause/)
Mr. E. W. Wallis passed into the trance state, and gWe a short
address on the subject, “ Add to your faith, knowledge/’ In the
course of his remarks he said that mighty hidden forces Werb
at work in the universe. Some of these could be only
understood by study in quietude, by sympathy, and by reflec-
tion; but when ouce a man Understood much about the unseen,
he had gained a valuable stock of knowledge for Use in daily
life. Spiritualists were latitudinarians, who saw gems of beauty
in every creed and belief; mixed with a certain amount of
error. They therefore received or rejected none of those
creeds, but saw that there wvre good men aud women follow-*
ing every one of them. (Applause.) All were liable to error, so
Spiritualists should take care to live in sympathy with all who
lived good lives, no matter what their beliefs might be.'
■ Mr; Starnes sain that he would give a brief outline of the work
done in that place. During the nine months that Mr. and Mrs.
Bullock had been established there the place might be aptly de¬
scribed as a kind of public-house, in the sense that it was a house
of ckll for spirits. (Laughter.) The spirits were not at all par¬
ticular about being invited; they came in without being asked, and
took possession of mediums by force; they had had spirits of all
kinds, colours, and quantities, who had given in some cases high
and holy teachings, but in "others had advocated doubtful morality.
Some had spoken with ease and elegance, others as if they had
swallowed a copy of the English grammar wrong side uppermost.
If they continued to come in such large quantities, perhaps
the Inland Revenue' Commissioners would be down upon the estab¬
lishment for dealing in spirits without a license. The facts had
also a serious side, for in that. room friends had met and spoken
again with those who had previously lived and loved and suffered
in their midst. The speaker then went on to describe how, atone
of Mr. Eglihgton’s seances, a luminous spirit hand appeared, and
shook hands with most of the sitters in the circle. On another
occasion, with two other mediums, the spirits violently turned over
Mr. Bullock’s chair, depositing him in the fireplace; the table then
Tan to the rescue, and lay down affectionately by his side. Many
trance addresses had been given in the hall, and others from speakers
in their normal state.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
He had had messages from his mother who had passed away from
earth six years agq, One day he went to Mr. Oannell’s seance at
St.John’s Wood ; he was a stranger to everybody there, the medium
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 19, 1875.
included, yet his mother spelt out her name by means of the table,
and said that she was eighty-four years of ago when she departed
earth life, which was correct. He then said, “ Oah you tell me what
you found in your tea-caddy some years ago?" “ Yes,” she an¬
swered, “ half-a-crown.” When he was an apprenticp at
Brighton he slipped half-a-crownj without her knowledge, into her
tea-caddy, thirty-five years ago. so that she might find it when she
looked therein. If people would hot believe in the identity of
spirits when proved by facts like these, neither would they believe
if one rose from the dead. (ApplauSe.)
Mr. Bullock said that he was jil&ased to see sd many happy faces
there that evening, as evidence that the work Which his wife and
himtelf were doing in Islington w&s appreciated; they always felt
it to be their diity to break up new ground, therefore* when they
found that hall vacant at Islingtdn they took it; in order to opien
up a new spiritual centre in the neighbourhood. The building Was
then in a deplorable condition, and some £13 was siibscribed by
friends to put it right. This money was expended only in materials;
for wdrking-men came there in the evening, took off their coats, and
set to work to renovate the plhbe without charge fof their
labour. (Applause.) Their work in Spiritualisrri wtis chieny
among the poor, who required a knowledge of it as .well as
the fcich, for it Was a noble and. a grand triitH. The sub¬
scriptions during the quarter froni friends who camp regularly
to the meetings aUdounted to £2 2s: 6d., and the colldCtions to
5s: 4d., making a total of £6 7si itid. With this help he and
Mrs: Bullock had held about six meetings every webk during the
past quarter; one friend had said to Him that he wondefed where
any clergyman could be found who would do the same amount of
work tor the same sum (Laughter), especially as gas, rates, and all
such things had to be paid out of the aihount. He and his wife had
been brought up aniongst orthodox people, so knowing their order
bf mind, .they had beetl tlble to convert several such to the trdths of
Spiritualism. He wished to see Spiritiialists working tdgethef in
love and harmony; he and his wife had not leant one way rdore
than another in Spiritualism; but all kinds of Spiritualists, high
and low, they looked Upon as brothers and sisters. (Applause;)
Harmony was wanted amongst Spiritualists, and all selfishness and
felass distinctions ought to be trampled .out, both in their hall at
Islington and at the National Association. All should ict like
brothers and sisters one td another.
Mrs. Bullock said that during the last quarter several me'diUnds;
including Mr. Herne, had giken seances at a small charge; where by
sufficient funds Had been raised to purchase the harnionium used
for the Sunday services, and they hoped before long to have a stove
and a timepiece: Several persons had been cur^i of their diseases
by healing medihmship, but many of therfi did not like td publish
the results brought about by that method df cure.
Mts: Hallock said that to know the value of Spiritualism, all
present should cdnsider what it had done for them personally; She
then proceeded to narrate how the proof of the reality of thd Spirit
world which shef fficeived through a medium in New Yotk, chinged
thd ivhole course df her life and the whole cdrront of her thddghts;
Df. Hallock sdid that the few words uttbfed by Mr. Wallis led
him td remark that Spiritualists had no controversy with men, their
mission was with principles; there were id thd Churches excellent
men ftiiq women, who were £t thousand times better than their ddc-
trines, some of vihfch we're much at variance! with the facts of
natures: Yet to be candid, it was necessary to speak of errors in
principles, whilst dt the same time their charity should bei un¬
bounded to the victims of the said error-*,' and no attempt should be
made to heap coals of fire! upon their heads, for error always
punished itself. Evcfy law in nature was quite Competent to take
care of itself, and no man Over broke one of them; he could only
break himself agairist them. The orthodox oftdn ridiculed the
comical nature of certain spiritual manifestations, but he thought
that this was a good antidote to their mournfiil way of going to
heaven as set forth, for instance, in the hymn beginning—
‘‘ Hark! from the tomb a doleful sound;"
Spiritualism was Christianity carried into, action, but it had little
connection with chur'chianity or creed. (Applause.)
foiCBs Prom the tombs.
Mr. Cyrus Avery then rose and said the line of the hymn quoted
by Dn Hallock, reminded him how, on the morning of April 29th,
1874, while reading the 13th chapter of 2nd Kings, at the 21st
verse, he was strongly impressed that Elisha’s spirit must have
lingered or was stronger near his bones: and he started at once to
Bunhill-'fields, City-road, to see what would be the effect of sitting
on the tomb of Isaac Watts fof manifestations through writing
mediumship, • He took from his pocket a book and pencil, and
wrote the following poem without oiie moment’s thought as to what
words Were comings-—
Hark! from Watts’tomb a joyful sound!
Ye skints on earth draw nigh:
The spirit sleeps not underground,
But dwells above the sky.
Freed from this earthly flesh and blood,
Its joys no man can tell; .   
God's love does ever purify—
He dOeth all things well. ; <
Inspired by all that He has made—■
The morning light and sun—
The still small voice sings of His love,
And has since earth begun.
Look not to Jew or Gentile tribe,
But cast thine eyes on high,
And learn of God, and not of man,
That mortals never die.
No dtileful sound comes from the tomb:
Ye saints; why do you cry?
Is faith so weak, or hope so small,
That tears form in the eye?
Banish such fears from thy faint heart,
For mortals heFe may know,
When spirits leaPe their earthly part,
On wings of love they go
Where kngels nevbf sing of death;
. But live for dverffiore;
’Tis life to Idsd the inortal breath;
And sing bn Canhan’s shore.
Votes of thanks were then Accorded to the speakers and td the
chairman, after which the chairman announced, that the following
Would be the programme of the proceedings in that hall dtiring
the quarter just commenced:—-Every Sunday; at 11 asm;, a seance
for the development of healing mediums: Tuesday, at 8 p.m.,
seance for physical manifestations; Wednesday, 8 p.m., trailce and
test sednee; Friday; 8 p;m., sedtice; Saturday, 8 p;ni, social meet¬
ings; Private seances held by special arrangement. Stinduy even¬
ing services weekly at seven:
SPIRITUALISM IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA—MR. TYERMAN’S WORK IN SYDNEY,
AND HIS APPRO ACHING DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA—SPIRITUALISM
IN QUEENSLAND—NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
We have received the follbwiug letter from the Rev. J: Tyerffian,
the chief worker in the cause Of Spiritualism in Australia:—
To ike Editor df “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—‘Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, who supplies your regular sub¬
scribers, has not had a spare copy of The Spiritualist since it c'dased
to come to me from England direct, so that I have UOt seen it since
the last number of January, which I have felt to be a considerable
loss.
I send you a copy of my latest pamphlet; Spiriiudlisni Vindi¬
cated and of the second edition of my lecture on li The Devil.” I
sent yon a copy of each of my other little publidations d good while
ago. My Guide to Spiritualism has been very favourably noticed
by several papers, and it may be of interest to -English Spiritualists
to know what is being published on this side of the globe'. The
doctrine of reincarnation appears to be gaining ground, but I have
not yet seen any of its advocates fainy meet such objections to- it
as those I urged in my pamphlet on the subject.
You will see from the address at the end of this letter that I have
removed from the colony of Victoria to New South Wales. I left
Melbourne with my family six months ago, intending to proce'ed to
America, after a short stay in Sydney, but am induced to remain
here, at all events for some time to come. Sydney, as you are no
doubt aware, is the capital of the colony of New South Wales, as
Melbourne is of Victoria,- and is about six hundred mile's from Mel¬
bourne; I visited it about eighteen months ago, by invitation of a
committee, and held a number of highly successful meetings for the
advocacy of Spiritualism and free thought. Over two thousand
persons were present at some of the meetings. On halting here ou
my way to America, the friends I made then rallied Pound me; and
wished me to remain amongst them. I decided to do so, but only
for a time; fOr I still intend going to America. However, that is a
matter of the future. There are a good many lecturer's in the field
in America; and I am the only one devoted exclusively to the work
in Australia; so that for the present I may do more good here than
in that country which I am so anxious to see<
Since our arrival in Sydney' I have held meetings regularly on
Sundays, and occasionally on week-days. We continue to have very
large audiences ; these show the interest that is felt in Spiritualism
and freethought. Our Sunday meetings aie held in one of the
theatres for the present. The orthodox are much exercised at the
spread of our principles, and do all they can to retard our progress
by misrepresentation and abuse. There is "an Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism” in existence here, Which was formed
after my first visit. It holds its meetings fortnightly, which are
interesting and helpful to those who wish for informatien on the
subject; There' are also several circles in the city and suburbs, at
which ihoTe or less satisfactory results are obtained.
About three months ago I was invited by a committee to visit
Brisbane, the capital of the neighbouring colony of Queensland,
and about550 miles from Sydney. I spent a fortnight there, hold¬
ing meetings nearly every night. Large audiences assembled, and
great interest was excited. Of course we had to encounter the
usual amount of orthodox opposition and abuse. An association
was formed as the result of my visit, which is doing welL Thus
Nov. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
by the help of my spirit friends, I am doing a little good in Aus¬
tralia. The opposition is sq well organised and strong that we
have a hard uphill fight, but knowing that we have truth on our
side, we gather courage, and go forth confident of ultimate victory.
Spiritualism is still alive aud quietly spreading in Victoria. In
Melbourne, •yyhere I laboured over three years, the cause, I under¬
stand, is rather stationary than otherwise, as there has been no one
to advocate it regularly before the public since I left. But it has
taken deep root there, and some one will be forthcoming before long,
I trust, to push its claims. Good and true as Spiritualism is, it
needs similar agencies for its propagation to those employed by
other movements. Our spirit friends work, but it is chiefly
through human instrumentalities. One fine old advocate of our
cause passed to spirit'life since I left Melbourne—Mr. Naylor. He
was to take my place as lecturer to the “ Spiritualistic and Free-
thought Propagandist Societybut he only appeared on the plat¬
form a few times. Being in his eightieth year, his day was over,
and he peacefully passed away to his reward some two months ago.
I hope the National Association of Spiritualists is prospering.
Since Tht Spiritualist was stopped I have been ignorant of its
doings. It is a matter of deep regret to many friends of the cause
in these colonies that there should be any division respecting
it in England. I cannot but think that the Association, if wisely
conducted, and kept frep from sectarianism, will do great service to
Spiritualism. Assure the secretary of my continued interest in
the Association, and my sincere desire for its future prosperity.
' Spiritualism in most'parts of the world has had to pass through
troubled water for some time past. The Holmes affair did much
harm; Buguet has turned out badly \ and now comes the news
that? Robert Dale 0,wen has been driven insane by Spiritualism.
The colonial papers, secular and religious, seize these things, and
make the worst of them, to the great injury of the cause, while
anything iii its favour is carefully excluded. We do what we can
to place the true facts of these cases, as far as we can gather them,
before thp public, but, with the press against us, we have great diffi¬
culty in gaining a hearing. Spiritualism, however, will survive all
these things, and yet become the mightiest power on earth.
John Tyermax,
147, WooUoomooloo-st^eet. Woolloomooloo, Sydney,
New South'Wales, Australia,
Sept. 25th, 1875.
WINTER MEETINGS.
Next Monday evening, at eight o’clock, the first of
the fortnightly meetings, fox the reading of papers and
discussion of subjects connected with Spiritualism, will
he held in the rooms of the National Association of
Spiritualists, 38,, Great Rusaell-street. These meetings
will assume somewhat of the interesting character of the
Gower-street apd Efprley-street conferences of former
years, since many experienced Spiritualists, versed in
the study of mediums and mediumaliip* will make
known to. each other the results of their observations.
Admission will be free to all members of the Association,
and no doubt the Wipter Meetings Corpmittee will also,
be glad to see those friends in attendance who give in
their names for election as members at the next
Council meeting.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN DALSTON.
Miss Fowler, the physfol medium, visited the Dalston Associa¬
tion, and gave a physical seance in the light, on Tuesday evening
last. There were present—Mr. Joseph Bamford of Macclesfield,
Mr. Charles Lee, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. H. Rotts, Mr. Arthur
Coleman, Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Captain J ames, Mrs, Amelia Corner,
Miss Corner, Miss Nina Corner, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mr. K.
Cocker, Mrs. Blyton, Miss E. Blyton, Miss Hannah Blyton, Mr. R,
Pomeroy Tredwen, and Mr, Thomas Blyton (honorary sepretary),
‘ Mrs. Wood and Miss Coraer put Miss Fowlpr into a black bag,
which had been previously inspected, and her hands were securely
bound behind her; the bag finally fastened around her neck and
secured to the back of her chair, She was further bound with ropps
by Captain J ames, Mr. Tredwen, and Mr. Blyton, so as to render it
almost impossible for her to move herself in any way. Thus
secured she was lifted into the cabinet formed by curtains in front
of the window in the hack room. A small hand-bell was placed
upon her lap, the curtains were closed, and immediately the bell
was rung. The curtains were withdrawn, and, on examination,
Miss Fowler found secured as at first. A tambourine was placed
upon her lap ; on closing the curtains it was freely manipu¬
lated, and eventually found upon her head. A concertina was
also played, and a whistle blown, while at frequent intervals the
curtains were withdrawn and the fastenings examined. Miss Corner
was then permitted to remain in the cabinet, when raps were made
upon the concertipa, which was lifted and placed in her hand at her
Request. Miss Corner having resumed her seat in the circle, two
curtain rings wpre placed on Miss Fowler’s lap; they were quickly
transferred to her wrists, and the result w*s examined by Mrs.
Cornpr, Mrs, Wood, and others. Short messages were written upon
papefr, and several signatures made in the attendance-book, which
was placed in the lap of the mediurq for that purpose. Hands were
t4©n both seen and felt by each individual present. Mr. Arthur A.
Coleman stated that two hands clutched hold of his wrist, and one
seized his arm, so that he was in danger of falling upon the medium,
so great was thp force exerted. The curtains were afterwards
pinned back, so that what took place was visible to all. The tam¬
bourine was raised from her lap, and placpd in her mouth; while
the small hand-bell was rung on the top of the tambourine, the
moverrents being clearly seen by all present. A heavy Bible was
also raised, and the leaves turned over, Miss Fowler was then
examined and released front her bonds. Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
MR. SERJE4NT COX AND HIS UNCLE’S GHOST.
To tfce Editor of “ Tk$ Spiritualist."
Sir,—For the fi^sf time to-day I have seen in The Medium, a state¬
ment by Mr. Burns, that I recognised a materialised form at one of
tpe sittings of the notorious Holmesps, The head of an elderly
gentleman appeared at the hole, aqd bobbed to me, An uncle of
mine, whom I had not seen for nearly twenty years, w^s the only
elderfy gentleman whom I could then recall as dead, so I said,
“ Are you my uncle Robert ? ” upon which the head bobbed again,
as it would have done had I said ‘‘ Arp you my uncle Timothy ? ’’
I did upon this thrust myself forward ^s far as I could crane my
neck, to obtain a better view, and was successful, for I saw au un¬
mistakable mash f°r the face, and a m°,st bladder-like-looking
head. The eyes did not blink, and the mouth did not move, and its
bend was not the bow of a living neck, bqt the mournfql bobbing
of a doll. In fact, tho entire exhibition wps as manifest an impos¬
ture as that which was detected afterwards in America,
Edward W, Cox.
36, Eussell-square, November 15th, 187$.
[We were present at the seance; there \^ere no test conditions, and Mr.
Serjeant Cox did not recognUe the face. He merely put the question
quoted above*, then, after scrutinising the face, remarked, “Well, it is
many years since I saw him.”—Ed j
^robincial Jietos.
LIVERPOOL.
SpND^x Services of th$ Liverpool Psychological Society.
—A course of lectures will be delivered from the platform of this
society by Dr. Hitchmau and Mr. Priest. Dr. Hitchman has
selected for his subject “ Mythology,” and Mr. Priest, “ The Church
and the World.” Dr. Hitchm,an delivered the first of the series last
Sunday afternoon, and Mr, John Pries! occupied the platform in the
evening.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
QN Thursday night Mr, T. P. Barkas delivered the first of a
series of scientific lectures in Nelson-street Lecture Room, Among
the subjects announced are Magnetism, Electricity, Open Questions
in Psychology, Biology, and Physics. He has secured the services
of some of th,e most influential clergymen and members of the
medical profession in Newcastle as chairmen. Colonel A. Potter
(ex-Mayor) presided on the last occasion.
Th,e North of England; Advertiser of Saturday, Nov, 13th, contains
a lengthy review of Colonel Olcott’s work.
WII^LINGTON-ON-TYNE.
Mr, Joseph Proctcvr, in the seventy^sixth year of hjs age, has
passed away to the spir^-world. He the first to. adopt steam
flour mills iu the North of England, a,nd it was while residing in
thq house adjoining his. mill that the. disturbances took piece which
excited so much curiositjy, and were attributed to the spirits. Mr,
Proctor himself was sceptical at first, but eventually “ gaye in to
the spjrits.” The “ WfUlington Ghost ” is belie.yed in by most
persons, and is. a household story in thp North.
Thr new honorary secretary to, the Liverpool Psychological
Sopiety is Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford-strept, Liverpool,
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt in Derbyshire.—Mr, and Mrs, Everitt
are now staying at Derby, and have been giving to the friends there
a series of excellent seances. If the local societies and Spiritualists
resident in the neighbourhood will communicate with Mr. Everitt he
will be happy to give them lectures, and to arrange for sittings with
Mrs. Everitt, as far as other engagements will permit. We need
scarcely remind our readers that Mrs. Everitt is ope of the best and
most rpliable of our private mediums, and the hearty thanks of all
friends of the movement are certainly due to her for the ready devo¬
tion of her marvellous powers to the furtherance of the cause.
Letters will find Mr. Everitt if addressed to him at 27, Uttoxeter
New-road, Derby.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 19, 1875.
BEIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
LBCTURB BY MR. E. PARKINSON ASHTON.
Last Monday evening, under the auspices of tho Brixton Psycho¬
logical Society, Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton delivered a lecture on
“ Spiritualism—Is it a Myth, or a Verity,” in Gloucester-hall,
Brixton-road. Tke lecture had been efficiently advertised, and was
exceedingly well attended. Amongst the Spiritualists present
were—Mr. Martin E, Smith, Mr., Mrs,, and Miss Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. Edtnands, the Misses Ponder, Mrs. Eudd, Miss Wit-
hall, Mrs. Guuyon, Mr. Earl Bird, Mr, and Mrs. C. W. Pearce, Mr.
Francis, Mr. Gray, Mrs. and Miss Seaton, Mr. Wallis, and Mr. E..
Dawson Bogers,
Mr, Martin E. Smith having been called to the chair, expressed
his gratification at the exceedingly good attendance, and his hope
that the audience consisted mostly of non-Spiritualists, desirous of
making an honest inquiry into the very important subiect that
would be brought before them, for he had arrived at the conclusion
that no one who fairly and impartially examined the question could
fail to become convinced of the reafity of what were known as
spiritual phenomena. He admitted that fn the course of their
inquiry it was quite possible that they might meet wfth some
attempts at deception or imposture, b\it however much tfifs was to
be regretted, and however much it rqight tend to disappoint and
discourage them, they would not be wise men if they, on such
aepoupt, concluded that there were no genuine and honest mediums,
and that none of the alleged manifestations were true and real.
To avoid such dangers, however, altogether, the best and wisest
course was for honest inquirers to form circles in their own houses,
for he had no doubt that in almost every household might he found
a sufficient supply of this strange and mysterious power to con¬
vince them that Spiritualism was indeed a great and serious
peelity. (Applause.)
Mr. Ashton comiuencecl his address by the declaration of his
conviction that of all the “ isms ” with which the world was now
acquainted, not one of them was to he compared in interest and
importance with that which was familiarly known under the name
of Spiritualism. The marvel was that a subject which ought to
attract the kindly attention of • all classes, because of the vital
question which it raised—that of a demonstrable proof of a contin¬
uation of life after sorcalled death—was sp generally met with scorn
apd opposition. The lecturer attributed this, principally, to two
causes—utter ignorapee on the one hand, and the fear of the
1* bogy ” of popular derision on the other \ buf he appealed to his
hearers to withhold their honest search no longer, suggesting that
a man who would not or dared not think for himself, was a very
shallow-brained individual indeed. He suggested further that there
might be some persons who, with every desire to arrive at the truth,
were deterred by the assumption that communion with our departed
dear ones was contrary to the teachings of the Scriptures. He would
pot attempt to induce any man to act in antagonism-to his sincere
convictions, but he would ask them kindly to consider whether, after
all, the hindrances did not lie in their own incorrect interpretation
of the sacred records. He believed, though the question was too
large to enter into on the present occasion, they wopld find that
fhe truths of Spiritualism were not at variance with the Bible, but
that the Bible fn every part supported the theory that visitants
from the spiritual world might and did communicate with those who
yet remained on fhe earthly plane of existence. Eeverting to his own
experience in connection with the subject, which he said had extended
over several years, he stated that he took an opportunity some time
since to visit the performances of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke. Some
people imagined fhat this was ap exposure of the alleged spiritual
phenomena, but after what he had seen in private and public spirit
cfrcles, he had no hesitation in declaring that his belief in Spirit¬
ualism, far from befog shaken, vi as strongly confirmed by the foolish
tpicks which he witnessed at the performances of those celebrated
conjurors, Messrs, Maskelyne and Cooke. Mr. Ashton then nar¬
rated in detail incidents which occurred during his visits to seances
ytith Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, and Mr. Williams, under strictly
test conditions, the utmost precautions being taken against trickery
and deception. He told what all Spiritualists know, and need not
therefore be here reported, how faces were seen and recognised at
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s, and how John King had appeared
with his wonderful light. Some of the lecturer’s narratfons excited
spnles on the part of the audience; but when he told how, in the
company of Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, persons of irreproachable integrity,
having no possible object in deceiving their friends, he witnessed
spirit-lights, enjoyed the wafting descent of luscious perfumes, the
spirit talking for some time by the direct voice, the company
listened evidently with a deep attention and interest; though when
he went on to state that he in broad gaslight had witnessed a chair
come up from the side of the room without human contact, there was
an evident look of incredulity on the part of many of his hearers.
Turning to the question of the value of Spiritualism, even granting
it to be true, he stated that the cni bono, to his mind, was really to
be found, first, in the circumstance that it had established what had
hitherto been but belief, the absolute fact and knowledge of a life
after death; and, secondly, that it gave to bereaved mortals the
comforting, reflection that they could hold communication with
their dear deceased friepds who had gone before. After a brief re¬
ference to the question of spirit photography, and directing attention
to some specimens which were on the table, having been lent for
the occasion by the British National Association of Spiritualists
and other friends, Mr, Ashton cleverly accumulated the evidence in
support of the truth of spiritual phenomena, verified by a large
number of eminent scientihc, literary, and other gentlemen, asking
the audience honestly to put the question to themselves whether in
the face of svich testimony it was possible to doubt that the alleged
marvels really occurred, If his hearers were disposed to ask, as
some .honest men did, how it was that such manifestations were
deferred to so late a period of the world’s history, Mr. Ashton
suggested that now was indeed the fulness of time, for it must be
granted that there had been no age in which revelation of the things
of the spirit world and of the fact of our continued existence after
the physical life was ended, so encountered the injurious tendencies
of debasing materialism, He answered many popular errors and
objections, expressed full faith that although Spiritualism might be
guided, its growth would certainly not be arrested, and concluded
amid warm cheering with an earnest; appeal for honest and fear¬
less inquiry.
At the invitation of the Chairman, some of the audience asked a
few questions, which Mr. Asfiton briefly replied to. As some of
these questiops seemed to imply a doubt as to whether there were
anything supernatural in the alleged phenomena, the Chairman
took occasion to mention the instance of Mr. Morse, who, having
been brought up in extremely humble circumstances, with scarcely
any education whatever, after coming under spiritual influence,
was enabled to deliver addresses of a character which it was im¬
possible that he should have given without supernatural help, and
he also gave some particulars of interviews with Miss Lottie
Fowler, when she told him circumstances connected with himself
and family, some of which were absolutely unknown to himself,
and were only confirmed by subsequent inquiry. These narrations,
which were of an exceedingly interesting character, seemed to pro¬
duce a considerable effect on the audience, A vote of thanks to the
lecturer and the Chairman brought the interesting evening to a
close; but we must not omit to mention that Miss Sexton kindly
contributed to the enjoyment of the assembly by accompanying
herself to two songs upon tfie pianoforte. It is sincerely to be
hoped that tfie Brixton friencls, having begun so well, will not
relax their efforts to spread a knowledge of Spiritualism in so
promising a neighbourhood.
In our advertising columns will bp found a fist of subscriptions
to the “ Harrison Testimonial Fund,” until Monday last, since which
date it is pleasing to state that several other friends have taken part
in the matter. Further particulars wfll be published next week.
The Anthropological Institute.-—The opening meeting of
this session of the Anthropological Society was held a few days
ago, under the presidency of Oolqiml Lane Fox. In the course of
a discussion upon “ heredity,” some amusement was caused by a
gentleman rising and saying that the doctrine of reincarnation
would explain many of the problems then before tbp meeting, and
that as he was a medium, perhaps those present would like to hear
what his “ invisibles ” had to say through him on the point. Col.
Lane Fox then called him to order, saying that the Anthropological
Society dealt only with people belonging to this world, Dr. George
Busk, late President of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, said that
the splitting up of the germs spoken of in the paper, might have
been produced by much the same causes as the splitting up of fhe
spirits for the purposes of reincarnation as mentioned by fhe
medium. After the firing off of this joke the proceedings con¬
tinued in their wonted order. t
Eecbption 4T Mr, FiTZiGajRALD’s.—Last Tuesday nigfit Mr.
and Mrs, Desmond Fitz-Gerald gave a reception to the members of
the Brixton Psycfiological Society, at 6, Loughberough-roaff North,
Brixton, at which the following- ladies and gentlemen were present:
Mr, E, Dawson Bogers, Mr;s. Eudd, Miss E, D. Ponder, Mrs.
Maltby, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Maltby, Miss Withall, Miss H. Wit-
hall, Mr. H. Withall, Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Edmauds, Mr, E. Parkinson Ashton, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Gray,
Mr, Newfon, Mrs, Gunyon, Mr, and Mrs. Earl Bird, Mr. Francis,
Mr. G, B, Tapp, Mr. Deane, Dr. and Mrs. Sexbon, Mr, C. D, Yesey,
Mr, J, D, Warren, Mr. A, Franfie, and Mr. W, H. Harrison. Not
only did the members of the Brixton Psychological Society meet
for social converse on the occasion, but it was Mrs. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald’s birthday, and Mr, Fitz-Gerald had left nothing undone to
promote the entertainment and instruction of his guests. Micro¬
scopes and carefully prepared microscopic objects, coil machines,
and so on, were among the attractions. The Misses Withall, both
most accomplished musicians, entertained the company at the
pianoforte, during a portion of the evening, and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald
gaye-some specimens of her own composition, “ Go where the water
glideth," and “ I remember,” the latter of which was once one of
the most popular songs of the day. Everybody present was made
thoroughly nappy, and the company separated at a late hour, Mr.
and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald have fostered the growth of this
young society by regularly giving up their drawing-room for its
business meetings, tfius relieving it of expenses and other diffi¬
culties, and Mr, Desmond Fitz-Gerald being recognised by the
scientific world as a skilful electrician, has still further benefited
the cause in the locality by giving his good name without hesitation
to,the unpopular truths, advocated by.the Brixton Psychological
Society." ' Vv: ’I-.."" ’ •
Nov. 19, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGf, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, ANB BIOLOGY,
ON S4.LB AT THB
BRANCq OFFICE OF “ T&E SPIRITUALIST'* NEWSPAPER,
88, QBEAT BUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBUBY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-streat).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE HANAOEB.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
formerly American Minister, at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining Interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the Relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Chumi. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing Interest, replete with
well authenticated narratiyeft describing manifestations produced by spirits.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec-
' tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. ' Original edition, 16s.': moderately abridged edition. 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.B.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism’
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Bussell, Wallace, F.R.G.8. This book contains a masterly argument In reply to,
Hufne'S “ Essay on Miracles."' It also records a large, number of Interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena-.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism vj, Religion and Science IS
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
• well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2S.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This book consists of essays up
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the perineal and other Literature of Spiritualism. 33.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism,-"but argues that they are produced by ah
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thought^ of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is but of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating,
to Dreaifls, Orhens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings And Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality ot Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be'diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unhub
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors,or Lord Lyttleton. 2 Volk, crown 8vo., 163
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is ag, acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ab.ll-y. Contents': The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Aft? '
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science-
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter afii Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle; Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles anid Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experience3 Is
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the eaiHy
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise Saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect thw there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, Who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not'cheat him. The question as to the reliability of tlje
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability'6f
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
- on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review filrther expresses the opinion that if ever inter-
- planetary communication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to givelife experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The! preface Say's:—'‘Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to mqn in the fleiRh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they Will not be taken for grafted
, because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of alf the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their mstructi<>n3’>'
6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
■ This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, (fives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the pest few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule.'before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work el so ebu-
talns remarks on the relations of the facts to; theology, morals, and religion
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s Gd.
ALLAN KAEDJSC’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 78. 60,
BQOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSQN DAVIS,
Th$ “ Poughkeeptie iseei].''
Nature’s Divine Revelations .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The. Seer. ,,111.
The Reformer. ., IV. „
Th$. Thinker. .. V. „
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arubula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Pe
Cnlldren’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ,
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts, for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer.' ^Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Haimoniai Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease.off'Brain and Nei-yes
The Fountain, with Jets of- New Meanings '
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crimp.
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth y. Theology ,
Morning Lectures '
. ». d.
. 16 0
. T 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 0
. 7 0
0 0
7 0
In the Press and will bp shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on tonqd. paper, '
° ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN,,ULTIMATION, AND.I^STINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa, Jacoby^ qpv? op Angel in Hit,
tenth state!
Contents.
CHAT. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnatipn of Deity.
2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Dnibri of Souls,
8.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, apd residences In th^,
Spiritual world,
4. —Spiritual science. Scienpe of the Klngdomof God.
5. —The purpose of God in creation.
6. —The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
7. —Tlje Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
8. —The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
9. —Spiritual Marriages.
10. —Spiritual Symbols.
11. —The Lost Orb. Part 1.
12. —The Argelic Society of Aaron’a Bod.
18—The Lost Orb. Part II.
14. —Unity, Harmony, and Mentity in Heaven.
15. —The Lost Orb. Part Hi
„ 16 to SO.—Experiences of a. Spirit; containing an account of tha.
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the-,
other life up^through the states to the tenth in v^ljiuh she is now in, and,
communicatee as the Angel Purity.
With an iptroductory chapter by the Becorder, who gives a foil account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volunas will be enriched witfya Frontispiece, photp printed, of the.
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of.
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the snbje •* treated pf being of snch a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make.it a handsome,
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be' obtained.'
Price of, the volume Cs., and an e^rly application^ requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MB. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-EOAD, MANCHESTEB;
MB. F. PITMAN, PATEBNOSTEE-BOW, LONDON; AND
MB. W. H. HABBiSON, 88, GBEAT EOSSELL-ST., LONDON,
who have kindly consented ip receive orders for the same. *
Mesmerism, electro - biology, eascina-.
TION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop clairvoyant Media,
How to produce Sleep In any one at will.
DB. MOSES BIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimqnials gratis, or. by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granviile-
square, London, W.O, At home daily from 10 tjll 5.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers ip London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Busse) 1-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, Ij, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, e;o.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Buq de la Cathbdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etndes psychologizes,
fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
] franc. Published by the Societe Anonym, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office order# payable tq M. Leymarie, .
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST. .
Nov. 19, 1875,
Cjr*
' Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
” The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
' " The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O„ by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s. i wnich may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a post
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling;
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism'
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 18619.
UPHE SPIRITUALIST, pnblishod weekly, is the oldest
A Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of tne leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes. F.RS.,Editor of the ‘‘Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Ijeuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. IAS.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr. St. George W- Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the "Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.R., author of •* Unorthodox Loudon ’’; Mr. 8. C. Hail.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken. M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D
(Australia); apd many other ladies, and gentlemen.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H, HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin R. Smith. Esq.
Charles Blackburn. Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I,
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.d.Tel E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Secretary
Prince Emile Payn. Wittgensteitv
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Aiexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
and Treaturar.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H,.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which be is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the. present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable poi tlon (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the Income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and o her
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years be has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By bis
unwearied and intelligent observation be has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,,
which fits him in ihe highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiri'ualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six ye«rs. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last tnree years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
a’pne by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in add'tion to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, wtiich shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is boned, mav to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy saorifioes which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All suhscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 187S.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. smith, Esq,, care of Mias Kiuingbury, 88, Great Russeil-street,
London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to November 16th,
Mr, Martin R. Smith   1 ,£50 0 0
Mr, Charles Blackburn     60 0 0
Mr. J.N. T. Marrhez*        50 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    20 0 0
A Frieud       20 0 0
Mr. Alexander lod       20 0 0
Comte de Bullet     20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe        15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, B irt.    10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayu-Wittgenstein  8 0 0
F. S. A      6 5 0
Mr. a F, Varley, F.R.s       5 0 0-.
Mr. Eqgene Crowell, M.D ,,v      5 0 0
M>s. Louisa Lowe     6 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey      6 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald .t.„,        5 0 0
Mrs. Honywood    2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald   2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.,V„.     2 2 0
Mr. S. Ohinnery         2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D      220
“ Ennesfallen ’’       2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory    2 0 0
Mr. Epos Sargent        2 0 0
Dr. Baikie         2 0 0
' Miss Dovglas            2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook     l 11 6
Mr. Geo. King..   a   110
Mr. K. A. Bmney         110
Mr. J. Coates       1*1 0
Mrs. Maltby,...       1 I 0
Mrs. Kislingbury      110
Mr. B. W. F^cock      110
Mr. B. Coleman       110
Mr. R. Fitton      1 1 Q
Major Menar«         110
Mr. John Lament ;  110
Mr. Archibald Lamout     110
Mr. T. B. Griffin       110
Mr. J. B. Stones      110
Mr. J. Regan        110
Mrs. Regan        110
Mr. G. W. Fi’Wiese       110
Rev. W. Wcitear      110
Miss Whitear       110
Mr. A. Glendipniug    110
Mr. H. Witball       1 1 0
Captain James    110
Mr. F. W. Percival      110
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     10 0
Miss E. D/Ponder.      10 0
A Subscriber      10 0
Amicus         10 0
Mr. A. O. Swinton     10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee        0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett   0 10 &
Mr. J. S. Crisp.      0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald        0 10 0
M r. St. George Stock         0 10 0
Mr. Geo Blyton      0 10 0
J. F. O        0 10 0
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Qq.een's-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. * J. Coates, Principal.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist m&y obtain
it of Mme, Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kioaque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
LOST HAT.-=At the recent Conference of Spiritualises,
a gentleman took away the wrong hat by mistake. Will he kindly
return it to 88, Great Russell-street, where his own hat awaits him 7
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.G.
