AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 95.—(Vol.IY.—No. 25.) LONDON: JUNE 19j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontents.
The Development of Religions Thonght  289
The Life and Works of Allan Kardec. By the Countess of Caithness... 290
A Conference of Spiritualists in London   ... 294
Mr. Williams and John King seen at the Same Time. By Prince Witt¬
genstein  294
Spiritual Mediums Burned Alive  294
Portraits of Mr. Williams, the Medium, and John King, the Spirit ... 295
Miss Showers’s Mediumship. By William Crookes. F.R.S 296
Seances with Miss Showers at Mrs. MakdougnU Gregory’s. By Sir
Charles Isham, Bart   ... 296
Spirit Teachings. No. XIII. ...          297
Miss Cook’s Mediumship. By S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.... ...   298
Correspondence':—The National Association ...   300
Paragraphs:—Marriage of Miss Cook, 294; the Price of the Spnitualbt,
2i'6; Mr. Morse's Intended Visit to America, 299; Mrs. Tappan in
Darlington, 299; Florence Maples, 300; Academy of Music for the
Blind, 300; Reincarnation   300
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense-; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
ectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874,
REDUCTION IN THE PRICE OF
TEE SPIRITUALIST.
To-day the price of The Spiritualist is reduced
to Twopence, without any reduction in the size or
quality of the journal.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societie wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism. .
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi-
nary jeance held on theflrstThursday eveniugin each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on they&'s* Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
17^AST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC-
_J TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from lOJill 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tykrman.
Price Threepence, i To bo had of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 19, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1, Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the-reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Q-rosvenor-street,' every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro iem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. -Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
info England the subject attracted attention in 'Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Q-oswell Hall, 86,
Q-oswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evenino Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, te commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may behad of the Committee.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., <^p., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription,. Ss. per annum, exclusive of postage.
TRliBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRIST ENDOM : its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—•
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Pirections of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnbr & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. O. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o'clock.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospoetuo
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—MRS. Lowe (LOUISA).
Price 2s. 6<L
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spbitual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general it formation.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
Jg-g AAA REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
l
t
gjta ojAs ejMa
1tip J)rxtgri$$ i|$ mb t$[
VOLUJVIE FOUR. JMUjVlBE^ TWEjS[TY-FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 19th, 1874.
Cjj-e SpinLaiist Jlttospapr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing .Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies- of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist'" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
„ Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19,‘Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c.; 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street. -
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
TDIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
ah particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGIOUS THOUGHT.
Violent disturbances in the material world are the
exception, and not the rule; so, in things spiritual, the
tendency of modern philosophical thought is to compare
the growth of religions to the growth of the branches
of a tree, each advance in thought springing naturally
from its antecedents, and received by men in propor¬
tion to their capacity to imbibe the new ideas. In
physics, small changes, extending over a long period of
time, will produce as great divergences as violent dis¬
ruptions will effect in a short period of time, but the
latter phenomena are the exception, and the former the
rule. So in religions. The English Christianity of
to-day is a very different thing from the English
Christianity of two hundred or three hundred years
ago, when Queen Mary roasted Protestants alive, and
Queen Elizabeth and the Bishop of Norwich roasted
Roman Catholics, in order to glorify the Almighty and
satisfy the religious convictions of the people. Still,
great as is the total change between that time and this,
it has been slowly and gradually brought about by the
progress of education and science—which are the same
thing, for science is but “ exact knowledge” and the
application of past experience to new conditions. An
example of the result of slow changes in physical
nature may be seen in the beautiful scenery of the
Highlands of Scotland, for modern geological research
proves Caledonia’s picturesque glens and valleys to
have been formed by a process of denudation by rain
and river, extending over vast ages, and not, for the
most part, by volcanic action.
New religions sometimes appear to burst suddenly
upon the world, especially when they are viewed
through the medium of imperfect records, but in not a
few cases there is evidence that a gradual change in the
minds of the people had prepared them to receive the
new faith. Dean Stanley gave some illustrations in his
recent lecture at the Royal Institution, showing that
Christianity did not make so great a change in its early
converts as is generally supposed, or as might be in¬
ferred from the contents of books written at the period.
The innermost thoughts of primitive people, the re¬
ligious ideas which are their consolation in life and
their solace in death do not readily find their way into
books and newspapers. He pointed out that the in¬
scriptions in the Roman catacombs, on the tombs of
Christians who died between the end of the first and
the beginning of the third centuries, do not show that
strong line of demarcation between the old and new re¬
ligions to be found in the books of the period. In the
second century, not only was the Good Shepherd carry¬
ing the lamb, carved upon the Christian tombs, but
Psyche, Bacchus, and other heathen deities, surrounded
by the trailing vine and wreaths of flowers. Chris¬
tianity was then a joyous religion, and would possibly
have as much disgusted the orthodox of the present day.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 19, 1874.
as do the social happiness and harmless jokes which
characterise many a modern seance; the early Chris-
tianSj who carved such lively things on their tombs,
never introduced crosses, furnaces, and instruments of
torture; these gloomy things, as symbols of Chris¬
tianity, were introduced at a later age; the Dean of
Westminster said that he could find none on the earlier
tombs; they began to appear one or two centuries
afterwards. The inscriptions on the tombs contained
nothing dogmatic, but simply inculcated the idea that
the state of the departed was “ peace,” and “ rest in
God.” These stone records in the catacombs are of
special interest, because they have not been tampered
with in later times, and chronicle the opinions of many
early Christians, instead of the convictions of one.
Modern Spiritualism is spreading with great rapidity,
but the human mind has been prepared to receive it by
long and slow processes. The battle between exact
knowledge and speculation has been waged for many
long years, until science has shown a tendency to
drag mankind into blank, cold, materialistic atheism,
and blind faith to draw it towards senseless super¬
stition and implicit belief in the incredible. Hence
the soil is prepared for the advent of religious ideas
founded upon facts which every man can prove for
himself, and which he ought not to believe until he is
forced to do so.
Thus all evidence tends to show that new religions
are not of sudden and miraculous origin, but that the
ideas grow naturally, as the human brain develops by
experience and education; the new is then accepted,
and that which is most worthless in the old is dis¬
carded, just as the orthodox world is now itself abolish¬
ing eternal punishment, which three hundred years ago
it would have roasted anybody for doubting. The good
and true in that which is old will live for ever, but
shorn of unmeaning dogma and artificiality, for, in the
words once uttered by a spirit through the lips of one
of our trance-mediums:—
The truth of the present is but the truth of the past,
But each trmh is greater, and grander, and mightier than the last;
The past is ever prophetic of that which is yet to be,
And God reveals His glory by slow and distinct degree.
THE LIFE AND WORKS OF ALLAN KARDEC.
BY THE COUNTESS OE CAITHNESS.
I willingly accede to your request to narrate all 1
know of the history of the late lamented Allan Kardec,
who did so much for the cause of Spiritualism on the
Continent. The little I can tell will at least serve to
answer many inquiries, and satisfy your readers until
you can obtain a fuller and more complete account from
an abler pen.
In order that English Spiritualists may know how
much this intelligent, good, and enthusiastic man was
esteemed on the Continent, I will begin by translating
some passages from the magnificent discourse pronounced
at his funeral on the 2nd April, 1869, by the well-
known astronomer and highly-gifted author of so many
celebrated scientific works. Monsieur Camille Flam-
.marion, of the Paris Observatory, which, I think, will
interest your readers; the more so as it will, at the
same time, serve to show them in what light Spiritualism,
or, as it is there called, “ Spiritism,” is looked upon on
the Continent by the most celebrated scientific men of
he day, who do not hesitate to own themselves con¬
vinced, while they, at the same time, confess their
ignorance of the cause of many of the mysterious pheno¬
mena of nature:—
Gentlemen—In accepting with deference the invitations
of the friends of the earnest and laborious thinker, whose
earthly remains now repose at our feet, I am reminded of a
sad day in the month of December, 1865, when I pronounced a
few solemn words of farewell at the tomb of the founder of
the academical library, the much honoured Didier, who was,
as an editor, the convinced fellow labourer and associate of
Allan Kardec in the publication of the fundamental works which
were so dear to him, and who was also called away suddenly,
as if Heaven had desired to save these two pure spirits from
the philosophical difficulty of quitting this life by a different
way from the one usually followed.*
My task this day is still greater, for I would fain endeavour
to represent to the minds of my hearers, and to those of the
millions who all over Europe, and in the new world, have in¬
terested themselves in the still mysterious problem of the
phenomena called spiritual—I would fain endeavour to repre¬
sent to them the scientific interest, and the philosophical
future that awaits these phenomena, to which, as they know,
so many eminent men amongst our contemporaries, have de¬
dicated themselves. I would desire to show them the un¬
known horizons which human thought will see open out before
it, as it extends its positive knowledge of the natural forces
which are ever active amongst us ; to show them that these
researches are the most efficacious antidote against the leprosy
of Atheism, which seems to be the plague spot of our present
period of transition ; and in short to bear witness in a public
manner to the immense services which the author of the
Book of Spirits (Livre des Esprits) has rendered to philosophy,
awaking attention and starting discussion on the facts, which,
until then, had belonged to the morbid and calamitous domain
of religious superstition.
It is indeed an important act to establish here, by the side of
this most eloquent grave, that the methodical examination of
phenomena mistakenly called supernatural, far from renew¬
ing the spirit of superstition, and enfeebling the energy of
reason, destroys on .the contrary the errors and the illusions of
ignorance, and better serves the cause of progress than does
the illegitimate and unjust negation of those who do not choose
to give themselves the trouble to search and enquire.
But this is not the time or place to open an arena for dis¬
respectful discussion. Let only a testimony of affection and
a sentiment of regret descend from our thoughts on the calm
countenance of the man lying before us, which may rest around
him in his grave as a tribute from our hearts. And since we
know that his eternal soul survives these mortahremains, as
it existed before them ; since we know that indistructible ties
connect our world with the invisible world that surrounds us;
since his soul exists this day as much as it existed three days
ago, and that it is not impossible that it is at this moment
with us; let us say to him that we would not allow his mate¬
rial form to disappear from amongst us, and enclose it in the
tomb without unanimously honoring his works and his
memory, without paying a grateful tribute to his earthly career,
which was so faithfully, so worthily, and so usefully fulfilled.
I will first rapidly trace the principal lines of his literary
career.
Departing this life at sixty-five years of age, Allan Kardecf
had consecrated the first part of his life to writing classical
and elementary works, particularly destined for the use of the
instructors of youth. When, about the year 1850, the ap¬
parently new manifestations of moving fables, and rappings
without an ostensible cause, extraordinary movements of fur¬
niture and of other inanimate objects, began to call the public
attention, and to cause a sort of feverish excitement even
amongst the most venturesome imaginations, in consequence of
the novelty of the experiences, Allan Kardec, who was studying
mesmerism and these strange effects at the same time, followed
the numerous experiments that were being made at that time
in Paris with the greatest patience and the most judicious clear¬
sightedness. He collected and classed according to order the
results obtained by this long observation, and from it com¬
posed the body of the doctrine published in 1857 in the first
edition of the Spirits Book (Le Livre des Esprits). You all
know the success that attended that work both in France and
abroad.
* I think it b etter to say that this is the exact rendering of the French
words, although it does not read well in English.—M. Caithness.
t Leon Hippolyte Denisart Rivail, it is known that the name of “Allan
Kardec ”'was a nom deplume, sui generis.—M. C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
June 19, 1874.
It has now reached its fifteenth edition*, having spread the
elementary doctrine amongst all classes of society, which
doctrine is not essentially new, since the school of Pythagoras
in Greece, and that of the Druids in our own Gaul taught the
premises, but it came with an appearance of newness and ac¬
tuality corresponding as it did with the phenomena.
After this first work others followed in succession, the Boole
of Mediums or Experimental Spiritualism ; What is Spiritism ?
or an abridgement under the form of question and answer;
The Gospel according to Spiritism; Heaven and Hell; Genesis.
Now death has come to snatch him away at the moment when
in his indefatigable activity he was busy upon a work concern¬
ing the connection of mesmerism with Spiritism.
By means of the Revue Spirite (Spiritist Review) and of the
Paris society of which he was the president, he constituted a
centre in which all converged to form a bond of union for ex-
perimentalsts ; a few months ago, feeling his end approaching,
he prepared the conditions for the continuance of these studies
after his death, and established the central committee, which
succeeds him. He has raised contention, having established
his school under rather a personal form ; there is still some
division between Spiritualists and Spiritists. In future, gen¬
tlemen (such at least is the desire of the friends of truth), we
should all be united in the bonds of brotherly union, and all
work together towards the general desire for the elucidation of
the true and the good.
As the organiser of this slow and difficult study, he per¬
ceived that its complications must now enter upon a period of
scientific research. The physical phenomena upon which no
stress was laid at first, must now become the object of critical
experiments, without which no serious conclusion is possible.
This experimental method to which we owe the glory of
modern progress, and the marvels of electricity and of steam,
must now take in hand the as yet mysterious phenomena
we are witnessing,—must measure, digest, and define it.
For spiritism is not a religion, but a science,—a science of
which we scarcely know the alphabet. Nature comprehends
the universe; and God Himself who in early times was made
for the image of Man, can only be considered by modern
metaphysics as a spirit in nature. The supernatural does not
exist. The manifestations obtained by means of mediums,
like those of mesmerism andhf somnambulism are of natural
order, and should be severely submitted to the control of
experience. Miracles exist no longer; we are witnessing the
dawn of an unknown science: who can tell to *what con¬
sequences the serious study of this new psychology may lead
the world of thought ?
Science henceforward will rule the world ; and, gentlemen,
it will not be out of place in this fqneral oration to remark
upon its present work, and the new inductions which it reveals
to us precisely at the point of view of our researches.
At no period of history has science developed such vast
horizons to the astonished gaze of man. We now know that
the earth is a planet, and that our actual life is accomplished in
heaven. By the analysis of light, we are acquainted with the
elements which burn in the sun and in the stars, at millions
and trillions of leagues from our terrestial observatory. We
possess by calculation the history of heaven and of earth, in
their far-off past as in their distant future, neither of which
really exist for laws that are unchangeable. By calculation
we have weighed the celestial earths which gravitate in space;
the globe we inhabit has become a stellar atom rushing through
space amidst the endless depths of immensity, and our own
existence on this globe has become an infinitesimal fraction of
our eternal life. But what must impress us still more forcibly,
is the marvellous result of the physical works performed in
these latter years; as, for instance, that we live in the midst of
an invisible world which is ceaselessly operating around us.
Yes, gentlemen, this is an immense revelation for us.
Contemplate, for example, the light which at this moment
is poured out on our atmosphere by that brilliant sun,
contemplate that tender blue of the celestial vault, mark
well the balmy gusts of soft air which come to caress our
faces, look at these monuments and at this earth—well, in
spite of our wide-open eyes and our clear vision we do not see
all that is passing here! Of a hundred rays emanating from
that sun, a third only is accessible to our sight, either directly
or reflected by objects; the other two-thirds exist and act
around us in a real although in an invisible manner. They
are warm, without being luminous for us, and are yet far
more active than those which excite our sense of vision, for
they attract the flowers to the sunny side, they produce every
•Since Camille Flammarion pronounced these words in 1869, it has
reached its 22nd edition.—M.C.
chemical action,* and in an equally invisible manner they
elevate the vapour from water into the atmosphere to form
clouds, thus occultly and silently exercising around us a
colossal force mechanically equal to many thousand million
horse power.
If the burning and chemical rays which are ever active in
nature, are invisible to us, it is because the first are not
quick* enough to excite our retina, and because the second
strike it too quickly. Our eye can only perceive things
between these two limits, before and beyond which it sees not.
Our terrestial organism may be compared to a harp with two
strings, which are the optic and the auditory nerves. A
certain class of movements will make the first vibrate, and
another class of movements will make the second vibrate ;
such is the whole of human sensation, more limited even than
that of certain other living creatures, of certain insects for
example, amongst which these samp cords of sight and hear¬
ing are more subtle and delicate. Now there exists in nature
not two, but ten, a hundred, a thousand different species of
movements. Physical science, therefore, teaches us that we
live in the midst of a world that is invisible to us, and that it
is not impossible that beings (equally invisible to us) also live
on the earth, with an order of sensation absolutely different
to ours, and without our being able to appreciate their
presence, unless they manifest themselves to us by facts which
come within the order of our sensations.
In the face of these truths, which as yet are only dawning
upon us, how absurd, and of how little value, does the
a priori negation of them appear! When we compare the
little we know, and the scantiness of our sphere of perception
with the quantity that exists, we cannot but conclude that we
know nothing, and that everything still remains for us to
learn. With what right, then, can we pronounce the word
“impossible,” in the face of facts that we can ascertain and
state, without being able to discover even their cause ?
Such as these are the authorised views which science offers
us of the phenomena of life and death, and of the force that
animates us. It is sufficient for us to observe the circulation
of existences.
All is but metamorphosis. Borne on in their eternal course,
the constituent atoms of matter pass without ceasing from one
body to another, from the animal to the plant, from the plant
to the atmosphere, from the atmosphere to the man, and our
own body changes incessantly its constituting substance
during the entire course of our lives, as the flame burns only
through the unceasing renewal of elements; and when the
soul has fled, the same body, so often transformed during life,
definitely returns to nature every molecule, never to take them
again. For the inadmissible doctrine of the resurrection of
the flesh, is substituted the grand doctrine of transmigration
of souls.
Here we have an April sun shining in the heavens, and in¬
undating us with its roseate warmth ; already the fields awake,
the first buds begin to open, the flowery Spring is amongst us,
the blue vault smiles, and resurrection is taking place; and
yet this new life is but formed of death, and does but cover its
ruins! Whence comes the sap of these trees which grow green
upon this field of death ? Whence comes the humidity that
nourishes their roots ? Whence come all the elements which
will cause the silent little flowers and the singing birds to
appear with the first caress of the month of May ? From death!
from the corpses shrouded in the sinister night of the tomb!
Supreme law of nature—the material body is but a transitory
assemblage of particles which belong not to it, and which the
soul has grouped together according to its own type, forming
for itself organs which will place it in relation with the physical
world, and whilst our body renews itself piece by piece by the
perpetual exchange of material; whilst one day it falls an inert
mass never again to rise, our spirit, a personal being, has ever
kept its indestructible identity—has reigned as a sovereign
over the matter with which it was clothed, thus establishing,
by this universal and constant act, its personal independence,
its spiritual essence—unsubjected to the empire of space and
time—its individual greatness, its immortality.
In what consists the. mystery of life ? By what ties is the
soul bound to the organism ? By what process does it escape
from it ? Under what form and under what conditions does
it exist after death ? What remembrances, what affections
do-s it preserve? How does it manifest itself ? These, gentle-
* The retina of the eye is insensible to these rays; but other subs^nces
indicate their presence, for example iodine and salts of silver. A part of
tho solar spectrum has been photographed by these rays which our eyes
see not. The photographic pla^e shows no visible image on “issuing from
the camera, although it is there, since a chemical operation will render it
visible.
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 19, 1874,
men, are so many problems which are far from having been
solved, and which together will constitute the psychological
science of the future. Certain men may even deny the
existence of the soul as they do that of God, and affirm that
moral truth does not exist, that there are no intelligent laws
in nature, and that we Spiritualists are the dupes of a gigantic
delusion. Others, on the contrary, declare that by a special
privilege they are acquainted with the essence of the human
soul, the form of the Supreme Being, the state of the future
life, and treat us as Atheists because our reason refuses to be
guided by their faith. The one and the other, gentlemen,
cannot alter the fact that we are here face to face with the
greatest problems ; that we interest ourselves in these ques¬
tions (which are far from being new to us), and that we have
the right to apply the experimental method of contemporary
science in searching for the truth.
It is by the positive study of effects that we mount to the
appreciation of causes. In the order of studies united under
the generic denomination of “ Spiritism,” the facts exist. But
no one knows the manner of their production. They exist
quite as decidedly as the electric, luminous, and caloric phe¬
nomena; but, gentlemen, we neither know their biology nor
their physiology. What is the human body? What is the
brain? What is the absolute action of the soul? We are
ignorant of it.' We are equally ignorant of the essence of
electricity and of the essence of light. It is, therefore, wise to
observe all these facts without any foregone conclusions, and
to endeavour to determine their causes, which are, perhaps, of
different classes, and more numerous than we have hitherto
supposed.
Let those whose view is limited by pride or by prejudice not
understand these anxious longings of our thoughts, so eager
for knowledge; let them throw sarcasm and anathema on this
class of studies; we elevate our contemplations higher! . . .
Thou wast the first, oh friend and master! thou wast the
first who from the very commencement of my career as an
astronomer expressed a lively sympathy for my deductions
relative to the existence of other celestial humanities; for,
taking in hand my book on the Plurality of Inhabited Worlds,
you placed it at once at the base, of the doctrinal edifice which
you dreamt of. Often have we discussed together this myste¬
rious celestial. Now, oh soul! thou knowest by direct insight
in what consists this spiritual life to which we shall all return,
and which we forget during this existence.
You have now returned to that world whence we have all
come, and you reap the fruit of your earthly studies. Your
earthly envelope sleeps at our feet; your brain has gone out,
your eyes are closed never more to open, your voice will no
longer be heard. . . . We know that we shall all come to sleep
this last sleep, to this same inertia, to this same dust. But it
is not in this envelope that we place our hope and our glory.
The body falls; the soul remains and returns to space. We
shall meet again in a better world, and in the immensity of
heaven, where our most powerful faculties will be exercised;
we shall continue the studies which on earth could only find
too small a stage to contain them. We prefer to know this
truth, rather than to think that you lie here contained entirely
in this corpse, and that your soul has been destroyed by the
cessation of the play of some organ. Immortality is the light
of life, as this dazzling sun is the light of nature.
Farewell, till we meet again, dear Allan Kardec. Aurevoir!
Having thus endeavoured to show how highly this
wise and excellent man was estimated by bis contem¬
poraries, and how deeply they felt his loss, I will pro¬
ceed to give you a rapid sketch of what I have heard
of his life, convinced that his memory will descend to
future generations, accompanied by the blessings that
belong to the benefactors of humanity.
Allan Kardec (Leon Hypolyte-Denizart Rivail)
was horn at Lyons on the 3rd October, 1804; his
family had always been much distinguished in the
magistracy and in the law; but, from his earliest
youth, he felt irresistibly drawn to the study of phi¬
losophy and science. He was educated at the college
of Pestalozzi, at Iverdun, in Switzerland, and was one
of the most distinguished scholars of that celebrated
Professor, and also one of the most zealous propagators
of his system of education, which exercised such a great
influence in the reform of studies both in Prance and
Germany. He was endowed with extraordinary intel¬
ligence and a special aptitude and inclination for teach¬
ing; he invariably taught all that he knew to those fel¬
low-students who had acquired less than himself. It was
in this college that his ideas took that tendency which
was afterwards to class him amongst the men of pro¬
gress and of liberal thought.
By birth he was a Catholic, and during the time of
his education in a Protestant country he suffered many
acts of intolerance, that induced him to conceive the
idea of a religious reformation, upon which he silently
worked during many years, with the hope of being
able to arrive at some unity of belief; but an in¬
dispensable element was wanting to the solution of
this great problem. Later on. Spiritualism came to his
aid, and gave a special direction to his labours.
He returned to Prance as soon as his studies were
concluded, and, knowing German thoroughly, he trans¬
lated many moral and educational books into that lan¬
guage, his favourite works amongst them being those of
Fenelon. He was a member of many scientific societies,
and was crowned by the Koyal Academy of Arras, in
the year 1831, for a celebrated treatise he had written
on the question of “ A system of studies most in harmony
with the necessities of the age.’1
Prom the year 1835 to 1840 he founded gratuitous
classes at his own residence in the Hue de Sevres, in which
he taught chemistry, physics, comparative anatomy, astro¬
nomy, and other sciences—an undertaking worthy of
commendation at all times, and more particularly so at
a time when only very few men of intelligence ventured
to follow in this path.
Ever desirous of rendering the process of education
agreeable and interesting, he invented, about this time,
an ingenious method of teaching calculation, and a
mnemonic fable of the history of Prance, by the aid of
which the dates of important events and discoveries
could be easily fixed in the memory. Amongst his
numerous works on education, I will cite the fol¬
lowing:—A Plan for Improving Public Instruction
(1828); A Practical and Theoretical Course of Arith¬
metic (1829); A Classical French Grammar (1831); A
Manual of Examinations for Titles of Capacity, con¬
taining Reasonable Solutions of the Problematical Ques¬
tions of Geometry and Arithmetic (1846); A Gram¬
matical Catechism of the French Language (1848) ; A
Programme of a Course of Chemistry, Physics, Astro¬
nomy, and Physiology, as Taught in the Lyceums (1849),
a work very much appreciated at the time of its ap¬
pearance, and which has since gone through several
editions.
Thus, before Spiritualism came to popularise the
pseudonym of Allan Kardec, he had known how to
make himself celebrated by a very different class of
works, which, however, always had for their object the
instruction and improvement of his fellow-men.
About the year 1850, when first the Spiritual mani¬
festations began to be spoken about, Allen Kardec
devoted himself to the most persevering observation of
the phenomena, limiting himself principally to the
elucidation of the philosophical consequences to be
deduced from it. He was thus able to perceive, from
the very first, the dawning of new natural laws,—new,
inasmuch as they had not yet been observed or studied;
laws that regulate the relations of the visible world
with the invisible, recognising, in the action of the
latter, one of the forces of nature, the knowledge of
which would throw light on an endless number of
June 19, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
problems bitherto considered unsolveable, and winch,
had only been considered from a religious point of
view.
His principal works on this subject are—Le Livre
des Esprits (The Spirits Boole), the first edition of
which appeared on the 18th of April, 1857; The Book
of Mediums, in 1861; The Gospel According to Spirit¬
ualism (1864); Heaven and Hell (1865); Genesis, the
Miracles and Prophecies (1868). In January, 1858, he
also established the Ilevue Spirite, a monthly publica¬
tion, which is still continued by the Paris Society of
Spiritists.
He founded this-society on the 1st of April, 1858.
It is regularly constituted with the name of “ Parisian
Society of Spiritual Studies.” Its sole object is the
study of all that can contribute to the progress of this
new science. Allan Kardec always denied having ever
written anything whatever under the influence of pre¬
conceived or systematic opinion. He was a man of a
cold and firm character, possessed of great calmness and
judgment, well qualified to grapple with the subject
without being carried away by excitement or enthu¬
siasm ; he observed the facts, and from his observa¬
tions he deduced the laws that regulate them. He has
given us the theory, embodying it in a methodical and
regular form, demonstrating that facts falsely called
supernatural are really subject to regular laws; he
classes them amongst the order of the phenomena of
nature, and thus destroys the last refuge of the mar¬
vellous and one of the greatest elements of superstition.
During the first years of the advent of modern
Spiritualism, when the first spiritual phenomena were
so much discussed, the manifestations were simply an
object of curiosity in Prance, as I am sorry to see they
still appear to be in England, rather than a motive for
serious meditation which they soon became in the
former country, and on the Continent generally, thanks
to the severe examination and logical deductions of our
intelligent, laborious, and painstaking author, who soon
succeeded in convincing all the thinking men of the day
of the great importance of the eternal truths under¬
lying the mere outward manifestations of spirit power.
The Boole of Spirits caused the subject to be looked
upon in quite a different light; the moving tables were
soon deserted; they had but served as a prelude to
form a body of doctrine which embraces every question,
that so deeply interests humanity.
The true knowledge of Spiritualism dates from the
appearance of the Spirits Boole. It became a science
which, until then, had only possessed stray elements
scattered about without any co-ordination, and whose
depth could hot be comprehended by every one. Prom
that moment the doctrine fixed the attention of serious
and reflective minds, and was rapidly developed on the
Continent. The book has been, I believe, through
nineteen or twenty editions in Prench, and has been
translated into nearly every Continental and some •
Eastern languages ; I hear it has attained to its sixth
edition in Spain, in spite of so many serious draw¬
backs from political and religious causes.
Thus in a few years persons of every country and of
all classes of society adhered to these ideas. This un¬
precedented result is doubtless owing to the ready
sympathy which the ideas met with, but it is also
owing in great measure to the clearness with which
they are set forth, which is one of the distinctive
characteristics of the writings of M. Allan Kardec.
Abstaining from abstract metaphysical forms, the
author has succeeded in making himself read without
fatigue—a most essential condition for the popularisa¬
tion of an idea; his argumentation is infallibly logical,
offering no field for refutation and predisposing to con¬
viction in every point of controversy. The material
proofs which Spiritualism gives of the existence of the
soul and of the future life tend to the destruction of
material and pantheistic ideas.
One of the most fruitful principles of the doctrine,
and that emanates from what precedes, is that of the
plurality of existences, and succession of earth lives
dimly perceived before by a multitude of ancient and
modern philosophers, and in these latter days by Jean
Reynaud, Charles Fourier, Eugene Sue, and others;
but it had remained in a state of hypothesis, whilst
Spiritualism demonstrates its reality, and proves that
it is one of the most essential attributes of humanity,
and one of the first laws of the order of creation. From
this principle springs the solution of all the apparent
anomalies of human life, of all inequalities, moral, in¬
tellectual, and social. Man comprehends by it whence
he comes, whither he goes, for what purpose he is on
the earth, and why7 he suffers upon it.
Innate ideas are explained by the knowledge. that
has been acquired in previous lives; the progress of
nations and of individuals by the men of past times,
who return after having progressed; sympathies and
antipathies as the effect of anterior connection, these
ties which form the great human family of all ages,
have for their base the very laws of nature, and are no
longer a mere theory of the great principles of liberty,
equality, and fraternity.
Instead of the principle that out of the Church there
is no salvation, which foments and keeps alive division
and animosity amongst different sects, and has caused
so much bloodshed. Spiritism has for its maxim that
apart from charity there is no salvation, that is to say,
equality amongst men before God, tolerance, liberty of
conscience and mutual benevolence.
Instead of blind faith, which annihilates liberty of
thought, it says: There is no real faith but that
which can look reason in the face in every age
of humanity, for as reason progresses with man’s
progress through the ages, thought and faith
based upon it must keep pace with that progress;
faith requires a basis, and this basis is the perfect
knowledge of what is to be believed ; it is not sufficient
to see in order to believe, above all it is necessary to un¬
derstand. Faith is no longer of this age ; in fact the
dogma of faith is precisely that which now makes the
greatest number of unbelievers, because it desires to im¬
pose itself, and exacts the abdication of some of the
most precious of man’s intellectual faculties, such as
reason and free-will.
Allan Kardec was an indefatigable worker, always
the first and the last at the work, but he gave Way at
last on the 31st of March, 1869, in the midst of the pre¬
parations he was makingto remove his offices, which step
had become necessary on account of the considerable ex¬
tension of his multifarious occupations. Numerous
works which were waiting for an opportune moment to
appear, will some day come to prove still more the ex¬
tension and the power of his conceptions. He died as he
had lived, at his work. For many years he had suffered
from heart disease, which could only have been com¬
batted by resffor the mind and more bodily activity, but,
entirely engrossed by his labours, he denied himself
everything that would absorb an instant from his
294
June 19, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
favourito occupations. 'With him, as with all high-
minded souls, the sword completely woreoutthe scabbard.
His body became heavy and unyielding, but his spirit
waxed more and more energetic, and to the last ho
was constantly extending the circle of its activity.
In this unequal struggle the outward envelope
could no longer resist, a day came when it was
vanquished'; the aneurism broke, and Allan Kardec
fell as if struck by lightning; A man disappeared
from earth, but a great name took its place amongst
the luminaries of the age, a great spirit went forth
to temper and renew its energies once more in the in¬
finite, where all those whom it had taught and consoled
no doubt awaited its arrival with impatience.
He has gone, then, to seek fresh life and renewed
energy in the spirit world, and to find new elements
wherewith to reconstruct his new material organism.
Worn out by incessant labours, he has gone with those
who will be the lights of the new generation, to return
hither with them to continue and to conclude the work
which he has left in the hands of his fervent followers.
The man exists no longer, but the spirit is still
amongst us; it is a sure guide and protector. An
indefatigable worker has been added to the spiritual
force. He will understand, as when on earth, how to
make each one comprehend the advice they most re¬
quire, without wounding any susceptibilities. He will
calm the premature zeal of the too ardent, and indicate
to them the proper moment for action. He will stimu¬
late the lukewarm, and aid the sincere and disinterested
workers in the good cause.* He now sees clearly all
that he only.guessed at when on earth; he is no longer
subject to doubt and perplexity, and will make us par¬
ticipate in his convictions, enabling us to perceive the
object, and pointing out to us the path we are to follow,
with the clear and precise language that constituted
him a type in the annals of literature.
The man no longer exists, but Allan Kardec is im¬
mortal, and his memory, his works, and, above all, his
spirit, will ever be with those who firmly sustain on
high the banner which he so well knew how to make
respected! Eut we do not unite around Allan Kardee;
we unite around Spiritism, such as he has constituted
the science, and with his counsels and his influence we
shall advance with sure steps towards the happy future
which is promised to regenerated humanity.
A CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS IN LONDON.
Ax a meeting of the Conference Committee of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, held last
Monday night, it was proposed—“ That the proceedings
of the Conference occupy four days—from the 4th to
the 9th of August.’,
1st day.—Soiree, 6 to 10 p.m.
2nd day.—Conference; two sessions, from 10 a.m.
to 1, and 3 to 5 p.m. Papers and discussions on Phy¬
sical Manifestations. Evening, 7 to 9—Physical
Seances.
3rd day.—Papers and discussion upon the higher
manifestations, the prospects of Spiritualism, &c. Even¬
ing—Seances.
4th day.:—^Excursion.
* Lady Caithness, who claims to come under the latter class, is now
preparing to publish, at her own and sole cost, the entire works of Allan
Kardec, translated for the first time into English by a few fervent followers
of the author, in which work she also bears her part. She trusts some of
these important books will be issued by Messrs. Triibner and Co. early in
the autumn.—Ed.
MR. WILLIAMS AND JOHN KING SEEN AT THE
SAME TIME.
BY PKINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
Mr. Gltnes’s report, which you kindly published in
the Spiritualist some months ago about a seance held in
my room, at the Buckingham Palace Hotel, was as
circumstantial and true as possible.*
What struck me most at that seance was John King’s
first appearance in front of the screen behind which
Mr; Williams was sitting. After some stray flashes of
light, his lamp suddenly appeared as if fixed against
the screen, and presently showed us the upper part of
King’s handsome figure, brightly lit up.
He did not come—he was there all at once, without
any transition whatever, and he was separated from his
medium by the compact screen.
When, later on in the seance, he called me to look at
his entranced medium, I distinctly saw Mr. Williams’s
head reclining over the back of his chair against the
wall; his face pale, rigid, deathlike; the eyes glaring
and upturned, and the mouth open, as of a man who
had died a few moments before.
The spirit was standing before him, lighting the
medium up and down with his lamp, which went out
after the lapse of about half a minute. When, after
that—while Atill standing in the dark, near the sense¬
less medium—I thanked King for his exertions, and
expressed a wish to shake hands with him, his large,
damp, flat hand grasped mine, seeming to come, how¬
ever, not from the side where I had just seen him,
but, as it were, out of the wall against which I was
leaning.
Emile, Prince of Sayn- Wittgenstein.
Nieder Walluf, on the Rhine, June lOtja, 1874.
SPIRITUAL MEDIUMS BURNED ALIYE.
The following paragraph from the Rdigio-Philosophical
Journal (Chicago) of June 6th, 1874, contains more details
about the outrage in Mexico than we published last week :—
“ City of Mexico, May 18th, via Havana.—Senor Castilla,
Alcalde of Jacobs, in the State of Sinaloa, has officially
reported to the Prefect of his district, that on April 4th he
arrested, tried, and burned alive, Jose Maria Bonilla and his
wife Diega, for sorcery, it having been proven that they had
bewitched one Silvestre Gacarias. The day before the execu¬
tion, Citizen Porras, as a final test, made Zac arias take three
swallows of blessed water, whereupon the latter vomited frag¬
ments of blanket and bunches of hair. The Alcalde states
that the people were exasperated against sorcerers, and de¬
manded that they be burned, and the sentence was executed
with his approval. He adds, that he has his eye on other
sorcerers, against whom complaint has been made by the
citizens.
“ The Official Diario, of this city, confirms the report of the
outrage, and says that several families in the town have since
compelled the officer to burn another old woman and her son
for the same cause. The General Government has asked the
authorities of Sinaloa to send a detailed report of these pro¬
ceedings, and to take measures to protect the lives of persons
threatened with similar violence.”
Marriage of Miss Cook. — At the parish church,
Hackney, by the Bev. J. A. Ken worthy, Edward Elgie, second
son of William Elgie Corner, Esq., of St. Thomas’s-square, to
Florence Eliza, eldest daughter of Henry Cook, Esq., of
Eleanor-road. No cards.
The Mr. Fay who has just come to London, asserts that
he is not Mr. H. Melville Fay, the notorious medium, nor the
brother of Mr. William Fay (manager to the Davenports) as
stated recently in The Medium, but that he is the second
cousin of Mr. William Fay.
* See The Spiritualist of January 2nd, 1874.
June 19, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
295
PORTRAITS OF MR. WILLIAMS THE MEDIUM, AND JOHN KINO THE SPIRIT.
At a large number of Mr. Williams’ seances during the past three I
years, the spirit John King has made himself visible by his own [
light to an average of about ten persons at the same time, and on
several occasions he has shown himself and his medium at the same
time, as recorded in the spiritual periodicals. Once Prince Witt- |
genstein invited Mr. Williams to his room in the Buckingham
Palace Hotel, and at the seance saw Mr. Williams and John King at
the same time, as recorded on the preceding page.
This engraving is copied from one of the photographs issued by
M. Buguet, of Paris. Information about M. Buguet’s photographs,
and the conditions under which they are taken, will be published
in the next number of The Spiritualist.
John King is the leading spirit in the production of physical
manifestations through the mediumship of Mr. Williams. The
special correspondent of the Times newspaper, and a friend of his
own, had a dark seance with Mr. Williams at the time the latter
was in partnership with Mr. Herne, and the following results were
published in the Times of December 27th, 1872:—
“We took hold of one hand of each medium, and at the same
time pressed a foot and knee firmly against the foot and knee on
each side of us. Our friend sat in precisely the same manner, and
thus the “mediums” were kept in complete custody. A box of
matches was on the table. We sat as still as a mouse, listening for
the least sound. Presently we felt something hard pressing gently
against the back of our head. Saying nothing, we leaned our
head backwards, when the substance seemed to yield and slid
softly over our hair. We made a sudden grasp at it with our left
hand, still holding fast the right hand of the medium, when there
was a sound of something falling heavily on the table. Our friend
instantly struck a match, and lo! one of the cane-bottomed chairs,
which when we sat down were arranged round the room, was lying
on the table. ... We must confess the chair in the dark fairly
puzzled us, and we came away, very far, indeed, from being
Spiritualists, but wishing we eould spare time and trouble to come
again and again till we had sifted the whole matter to the bottom.’
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MISS SHOWERS’S MEDIUMSHIP.
BY WILLIAM CROOKES, E.R.S.
Ok several recent occasions Mr. Seijeant Cox has
publicly alluded to opinions which I had privately written
to him, respecting the electrical and other tests I was
kindly permitted by Mrs. and Miss Showers to try with
the latter lady. For many reasons, I regret that Ser¬
jeant Cox has thought fit to introduce my name into
this controversy; but having done so, I think it only
justice to Miss Showers, as well as due to myself, that
your readers should be in possession of the exact words
I used. I therefore ask you to be good enough to print
the following extracts from my letters to Serjeant
Cox:—
“ April 14th, 1874. I have had two experimental
seances with Miss Showers, and have obtained certain
results, but not enough to enable me to form a definite
opinion. I must have more evidence. I have only
had four seances altogether with, her, and that is quite
an insufficient number. I had between thirty and
forty seances with Miss Cook, before I felt justified in
coming to a positive opinion. I notice that with every
new medium one or two seances only leave suspicion on
the mind. It was so in the case of Home, Williams,
Herne, Miss Fox, Miss Cook, and Miss Showers. In
all instances where a great number of seances have been
available, this suspicion has been replaced by belief; so
it is not fair to attach too much importance to the
unfavourable impression given by the first few seances
with Miss Showers.”
“ April 2Qth. I cannot make up my mind about Miss
Showers. ‘ Katie ’ refuses to say anything about her or
‘ Florence.’ But be Miss Showers genuine or not, I am
satisfied that Miss Cook is true and honest. I have had
too many seances with her, and have tried too many
tests lilce those you suggest, to leave any doubt on my
mind.”
“April 25ih.-—The tests which Miss Cook stood well,
Miss Showers failed to stand. But knowing how misled
I was in Miss Cook’s ease at first, with even stronger
grounds for suspicion than I have with Miss Showers, I
wish to reserve judgment till I have more opportunities
of experimenting. The evidence in her favour-is very
strong. I know five or six people who declare they
have seen Miss Showers and the spirit Florence at the
same time,—Mr. Dunphy, Mrs. Corner, Mr. Tapp, Mr.
Luxmoore, and Miss Cook,—and these on separate occa¬
sions. I have been in the cabinet all the time, near
but not touching Miss Showers, while the \ spirit ’ was
4 materialising,’ and then saw it open the curtain and
take my hand. I could not see Miss Showers, as it was
dark, but the risk of detection was too great for an im¬
postor to venture on.”
This is all which I have said or written to Serjeant
Cox on the subject; the letters from which the above
quotations are taken were written currente calamo, and
would perhaps have been worded differently if I had
foreseen their possible publication; but the opinions
expressed in them I still hold.
F The Price oe the Spiritualist.-—To-day The Spiritualist
is published at two-pence for the first time, whereby a great
increase in the expenses has been incurred, as was also the
case when it was first published fortnightly instead of monthly,
and afterwards weekly instead of fortnightly. It is hoped that
its friends will exert themselves to increase its circulation in
all directions.
June 19, 1874.
SEANCES WITH MISS SHOWERS AT MRS. MAK-
DOUGALL GREGORY’S.
BY SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BART.
The musical seance_ last evening, June 11th, at the
house of my excellent friend Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W., was most satis¬
factory. Our small and select party of inquirers was
conducted through a very narrow doorway in the tem¬
porary partition, to that end of the drawing-room which
was afterwards darkened, and in which were a semi¬
grand piano, a small table, sofa, and a few chairs. I
accidentally took one which enabled me to lean against
the said piano, close to the key-board, where Miss
Showers had most kindly consented to preside, and
where no one could approach without my knowledge.
This young lady played with a light touch the beautiful
air, ££ Ah! che la morte.” I, being placed between Miss
Showers and the audience, was in the best position in
the room for observing the following phenomena:—A
man’s stentorian voice sang the song throughout in
good time and tune. The voice proceeded from close to
where I was seated, and between myself and the wall;
it, as you may suppose, overpowered the piano, and I
may add, in its more powerful notes, was almost suffi¬
cient to deafen the listeners; it must have had a fine
effect in Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
My friend Mr. Sutherland, who heard it on that night
for the first time, has considerable knowledge of sing¬
ing; he remarked that he had rarely heard so powerful
a baritone; he inquired the age of the performer; the
same voice replied that he was twenty-two when he
left this world. Mr. Sutherland remarked that he was
thinking that a voice of that quality would be likely to
belong to a person of twenty-three. The next song
was rather comical, the word 44 Whipypoor-Will ” (an
American bird) being in one verse pronounced in a most
ludicrous manner in a squeaking, rough, hoarse, and
bass voice in.quick succession ;• a clear, but occasionally
rather shrill, female voice took up certain parts of the
song.
After various other songs had been performed, nume¬
rous questions were put to the vocalist; we failed in
obtaining any valuable information in reply to any of
them, and soon the voice declined answering at all. -
Here is a specimen:—
44 Do you consider prayer of any avail f” 44 Oh!
yes.”
44 What sort of prayer do you preferV' 441 like the
Lord’s prayer best.”
How does prayer benefit youP 44 It gains us salva¬
tion.”
44 What do you mean by thatV’ 44 It enables us to
get to the top of the tree, and sit there \l’hen, after
a pause'] but we must not have too many up, or it will
break down.”
The only addition I will supply to the above is (1st),
that Miss Showers has a gentle, soft voice, both in
speaking and singing; (2nd), when I accompanied
44 Peter” on the cornopean a few evenings previously,
some of the tunes—such as God Save the Queen, which
I played in the key of D—he, evidently not liking the
higher pitch in the second part, sang an octave lower
than my instrument. I think this is sufficient evidence
that the voice was not the voice of a woman, much less
that of Miss Showers.
'Among the witnesses present at this seance Were the
Hon. E. Douglas, Mr. Thompson the amateur mes-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
June 19, 1874.
merist of Yorkshire, Lady G., Mr. T. H. Noyes, B.A.,
and Mr. George Sutherland.
At another seance, held last Sunday night at Mrs.
Gregory’s, after Miss Showers had been tied with tape
round the wrists by her mother, in a manner which
appeared almost to amount to cruelty, the knots
were sewn with thread, and finally sealed by Mr.
Dunphy, the young lady submitting with the most
exemplary resignation. Peter, as usual, commenced
singing in his free and lively manner, when presently
Florence appeared from behind the curtain. I being
close to Mr. Dunphy, who was keeping guard, went
close up to her, and with the utmost sincerity expressed
myself in admiration of her beauty and grace, and re¬
marked how unlike she was to Miss Showers. Florence
expressed her gratification at this opinion. After she
had been seen by Mr. Dunphy to walk towards the far
end of the dark chamber to her medium for the purpose
of gaining strength she returned, when I presented her
with a small but fragrant bouquet. This she grace¬
fully accepted, saying how kind it was of me, and how
fond she was of flowers, terminating her remarks with,
“ Thank you very, very much.”
This she retained in her hand with another presented
to her by M. Gustave de Yeh, during the remainder of
the evening.
Each one of our party was presented to Florence in
succession, and each signified in kind and sympathising
words to Florence the extreme delight they experienced
at being permitted to approach and gaze on her. Mrs.
Gregory now, after some coaxing, induced Florence to
show her naked foot. This she did several times, but
only momentarily. The foot appeared to be but half
the natural size, and I failed to distinguish toes. She
also, on request, showed her teeth, which were of the
purest colour. After various little remarks, uttered in
her sweetly plaintive voice and winning manner,
Florence gave us her blessing and retired.
Peter now recommenced singing various songs in a
sort of careless and lively manner, until the appearance
of Lenore was announced.
It would require a pen far more graphic than my
own to describe the charming and winning ways of this
playful little spirit.
A bouquet was, of course, also presented to her, which
she gracefully accepted, and with which she tapped our
faces in the most coquettish fashion possible to conceive.
She allowed us to stand in front of her, in a stooping
position, and look closely into her refined and lovely
face, far beyond any earthly complexion in delicacy and
purity.
At the request of Mrs. Gregory, she kissed me and
others through her veil; she broke off small pieces of
her hair for us, and delighted us in various ways. I
inquired of her whether she could write her name; she
replied that she could, but did not know whether she
would, as it was too much trouble. I, however, handed
her a visiting card and pencil. She was commencing,
when I said, “ Would you be so kind as to allow me to
hold the card ?” She then placed it in the palm of
my hand, and arranging it, and placing her fingers
under my hand, with the thumb above to steady the
card, leant her right hand against mine, and wrote, at
the same time saying she could not see, and feared I
could not read it, but told me to take it to the candle
and try. This I did, when these words appeared in a
legible hand:—“ I have had so much pleasure in making
your acquaintance^ Leonore.”
She was standing outside the doorway. We now re¬
quested her to walk into the room. This she declined.
I then placed my hand on the carpet two feet in front
of her, when she placed her naked foot on, it at
request, for the space of one second; the foot was of
perfect form and size.
These are some of the principal occurrences of the
seance. Numerous other little incidents which cannot
be described imparted to it the principal charms.
Thus terminated the most delightful evening it has
ever been my fortune to experience.
Miss Showers, the most deserving of all, is denied the
pleasure of participating in the enjoyment. She wakes
up, the tape is cut off the wrists, and is now in my po-
session.
The other guests present at this seance were the
Countess of Caithness, Count de Medina Pomar, General
Brewster, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mrs.
Showers, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, and M. Gustave de Yeh,
of Paris.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XIII.
[After an interval of some days, during which I re¬
ceived no communication on the subject of the religious
teaching of spirits, I requested permission to state
further objections ivhich jiressed strongly on my mind.
As I recall my state, I was perplexed and startled by
what had been said. I ivas unable to accept ivhat was
so new; and the great point that weighed with me teas
that ofet Spirit IdentityIt seemed in my then state
that I must have complete proof of the earth identity of
the communicating spirit before I could accept the state¬
ments m,ade. I believed such direct demonstration to be
procurable; and I was distressed that it was not given.
I did not then know {July, 1873,) as I do now that the
evidence of conviction is what alone is to be had ; and
that no cut-and-dried plan such as I propounded would
really have carried with it the conviction I imagined.
Moreover, I was distressed by the feeling that much that
passed current for spirit communication was silly a;nd
frivolous, if not mischievous. I compared the teaching
of the Christian moralists with spirit teaching very much
to the disadvantage of the latter. 1 also considered that
there was very wide divergence between teachings given by
spirits, and that all sorts of opinions were professed.
Most of these I disliked personally, and I did not believe
that they benefited the people who received them. I
fancied that many such were enthusiasts and fanatics,
and was repelled by the idea. Neither from internal
nor external evidence was I greatly attracted, and the
objections that I put at that time were directed to the
points above noticed.' They related principally to evi¬
dence about identity, to what I thought would be the
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 19, 1874.
probable dealings of God with mankind, and to the
general character and outcome of Spiritualism. The
next answer made to me was as follows ;]
Peiend, we are pleased to converse with you again ;
and if it be impossible for us to answer all your queries,
and to solve all your problems, we can at least rectify
some errors into which you have fallen as to the deal¬
ings of God with man, and the tendency of the mission
which we have in charge.
The root of your error seems to lie in a false concep¬
tion of God and of His dealings with mankind. Surely
the page of huruan history bears upon it the story of
one uniformly progressive revelation of One and the
same God. The attempts of men to realise and picture
to themselves the God whom they ignorantly worship
have led to the strangest and most fallacious notions as
to His nature and operations.
In the early days of man’s history the crude notion
of a God inherent in his spiritual nature took shape as
a fetish, which was alternately prayed to with rever¬
ence or cast aside with contumely, in proportion as the
prayer was granted or delayed. Men knew not that
the block before which they bowed was powerless, and
that round them hovered ever the bands of spirit
ministers who were ready to succour and defend them,
and to bear to them answers to their reasonable prayers.
They could grasp no more of God than that. The
tangible, palpable image was to them the embodiment
of their idea. . Mark this! of their idea of God, not of
God Himself, but of the crude conception which was
the best idea they could frame. Drawing their infor¬
mation from their own dealings, they imagined for
themselves certain rules of conduct by which they pro¬
ceeded to judge the God whom they had created. They
feigned for Him human passions such as they found
worthy of respect in their fellows. They credited Him
with some failings which were inseparable from huma¬
nity as they knew it. He was jealous of His honour;
long-suffering and of tender pity; according as they
who spoke of Him imagined that He ought to be. He
was, in short, a glorified man—a man endued with
omnipotence, omniscience, and omnipresence. They
feigned Him such and made Him act accordingly. Con¬
sequently all the revelation of God is characteristic of
the age in which it is given. It grows with human
development, and is progressively proportioned to the
development of human intellect and refinement, simply
because the human medium becomes capable of being
impressed with more accurate views of the Deity in
proportion as he has shaken himself free from his
former fetters of ignorance, and has himself progressed
towards light and knowledge.
We have frequently said that God reveals Himself as
man can bear it. It must needs be so. He is revealed
through a human medium, and can only be made known
in such measure as the medium can receive the commu¬
nication. It is impossible that knowledge of God should
outstrip man’s capacity. Were we now to tell you—if
we could—of our more perfect theology it would seem
to you strange and unintelligible. We shall, by slow
degrees, instil into your mind so much of truth as you
can receive, and then you will see your present errors.
But that is not yet. Indeed, since the conception
which each frames for himself is to him his God, it
cannot be that revelation can be in advance of capacity.
It is in the nature of things impossible.
Hence you see that when you credit God with motives
and say “ This cannot be. God is acting here contrary
to His nature. He cannot so act now, because He did
not so act then,” you are simply saying, “My idea
of God is so and so, and I cannot at present get another
one. According to what I believe, my God would not
do so.” And that is precisely what we say. You have
made your God, and you have made Him act as you
see fit. By and bye, as your mind expands—either in
your present state of being or in another—you will get
fresh light, and then you will say, “ How I see that I
was wrong. God is not what I fancied at all. How
could I ever have entertained such notions r
This is very much the case with all progressive
minds. To some the time of development comes not
in this life. They must wait for a newer light in a
newer life. But to some there comes a flood of know¬
ledge even in their present place of existence. The old
grows flat and profitless. The soul craves for a newer
and truer revelation ; for something which shall be as
the spirit among the dry bones, and shall give them a
resurrection unto life.
Well, you have had, or you are having, your revela¬
tion. Your mind, as some would say, has widened,
and has pictured a God more in accordance with its
advanced capacities.
You have received from an external source—the same
whence all other Divine knowledge flows down to man—
a newer and richer revealing of the Supreme, others
may say.
Call it what you will. The two operations of re¬
velation and comprehension, of knowledge and capacity,
must be correlative. The knowledge does not come
until there is capacity to receive it. Neither does the
mind get higher revelation until it has so far advanced
as to feel the want of it; and that for the simple
reason that it is itself the agent through which comes
the revelation of which it is the recipient.
We have more to say of this. But not now. May
the Supreme guard you! 4. I. S. D.
MISS COOK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
BY S. C. HALL, E.S.A.
Although I have no desire to intrude my name
into a controversy which I have read with some
pain and much regret, I feel bound to write a few
words on the subject.
I have been present only once when the “ma¬
terialised spirit” known as “Katie” appeared in a
circle of friends. They numbered fifteen, and with
most of them I am personally acquainted,—ladies and
gentlemen of high and honourable positions and
character, of well-established ability, and in all ways
as sound and intelligent a “jury ” as could be selected
to try the issue of any case at Westminster Hall.
They had (I believe all of them) seen often what I
saw but once. The testimony of any one of them,
much more their combined testimony, would be ac¬
cepted without scruple by Mr. Serjeant Cox, ex
cathedra, as conclusive upon any subject on which
it was tendered. '
But that is not the point in dispute. I state that I
did distinctly see the form said to be a “ materialised
spirit ” and the form of Florence Cook at the same
time. The “spirit’’was standing in the door-way,
and Florence Cook was on the ground at a distance of
about four feet from the “ spirit.” I passed into the
room and raised Florence Cook from the ground, and
June 19, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
ascertained that the form I had seen on the 'ground
was Florence Cook.
The room was a small room, divided by a folding
door, one half of which was closed, a curtain hanging
over the other half, which the “ spirit ” occasionally put
aside to enter the circle; she put aside that curtain,
and held it aside, when I and others saw the form of
Florence Cook on the ground. The gaslight was
sufficiently strong for me to read large print. I did
not see the faces of the spirit and the medium at the
same time, but the forms I did ; and I saw the face of
Florence Cook within one minute after I had seen the
face of the “ spirit,” under circumstances which I
will briefly explain.
I record my conviction that, if there were persona¬
tion, it was not Florence Cook who represented the
“ spirit.” That was utterly impossible. If there
were personation—and consequently a most infamous
and blasphemous fraud—some other person, and not
Florence Cook, is the primary participator. It follows,
of course, that she and the whole of her family are
aiding and abetting the wicked imposition; nay, that
Mr. Crookes is doing so ; I can more easily conceive
him to be a rogue than a fool, an ally than a victim.
And, indeed, several of those present must have been
cheats as well as he.
Why? wherefore? for what object? to what pur¬
pose ?
I cannot conceive an amount of turpitude so mon-
strous : that a family, standing well with their neigh¬
bours, eminently “ respectable,” religiously brought
up (so far as can be shown by external signs), deficient
of no social or moral duty—at least in the estimation
of many persons of repute to whom they have long
been known—that such a family, or any family not
the vilest and most abandoned, could persistently,
consistently,, and for a long period, carry on a system
of fraud so utterly wicked—without any apparent
motive—^without, indeed, any reason why such fraud
should be perpetrated—by which no member of such
family could be in any way benefited.
Certainly there is nothing to indicate such atrocity
of character (if there be fraud, no words can be too
strong in protest) in the aspect of this household. It
is a family of limited means and humble station;
neither means nor station have augmented or advanced
since the power was claimed; in neither father,
mother, brother, nor sister, is there any indication of
deceit; while Miss Cook, a young lady aged, I sup¬
pose, sixteen, is as ill calculated to be a cheat, or the
confederate of cheats, as any person I ever saw.
I might lay some stress upon the other evidences
that sustained my conviction on the evening to which
I refer, especially the marked difference between
Florence Cook and the “ spirit.” Florence Cook is
short, the “ spirit” is tall—the one two, or perhaps three
inches taller than the other. The hair of Florence is
dark ; that of the “ spirit ” light. Florence Cook has
ears pierced, and wears ear-rings ; the ears of the
“ spirit” has no marks of ear-piercing. The foot of
the “ spirit” is rather large ; that of Miss Cook is
small. The faces of the two were, to my mind, very
dissimilar: that of Miss Cook is small and round;
that of the “spirit” long and solemn. The difference
in the dress may amount to little, except that Miss
Cook certainly wore stays, which the “ spirit” as
certainly did not. The feet of the 1 spirit” were
naked; Miss Cook wore stockings and somewhat thick
shoes. Miss Cook had on a green dress, high at the
neck; the “ spirit” had a white dress, of muslin, it
seemed to me, and a sort of veil of the same material
over the head, falling over the shoulders. These facts
are of value only as showing that for Miss Cook to
have taken off her dress and assumed another, and
then to have taken off that dress and assumed her own
must have taken time—which she could by no possi¬
bility have had.
But, after' all, is this manifestation more wonderful
than other manifestations which so many of us have
witnessed—the veritable character of which is not
questioned by persons who question this ?
I am not disposed to enter into this matter at greater
length—what the nature of the “ spirit ” is—why it is
sent—what work it is to do, is doing, or has done—
all this is involved in so thick a mist that understand¬
ing cannot penetrate it.
The manifestation is not to me agreeable; it gave
me a shudder rather than a pleasure, and I have no
wish to see it again. My sensations while in the
presence of this “spirit” were, indeed, excessively
painful. I do not understand that the “ spirit” has at
anytime uttered a sentence worth recording; developed
any truth ; or, in fact, said a word or done a thing of
any value. But that is not the question. The time
may not be yet; we may hereafter—perhaps soon—
see the wherefore that is now obscure.
My object is simply this : to declare my entire and
unqualified conviction that Florence Cook and “ the
Spirit ” are entirely distinct—that the one is not the
other—that they are two separate beings.
I base this conviction upon such evidence as can
be supplied to me by my senses, guided and sustained
by such intelligence, such exercise of Reason, as
enable me to form correct opinions and arrive at right
conclusions upon this as upon all other subjects.
And if my testimony is not to be taken as trustworthy
here, it ought not to be upon any matter concerning
which I might offer it. I am neither more nor less
capable of judging that Miss Cook was not the
“Spirit”—that the “spirit” was not Miss Cook—
than I am of determining whether I have two hands
or only one—whether, in fact, I am writing with a
pen dipped in ink or with a pencil—or, in short, any
fact to be resolved by simple exercise of mind aided
by the senses.
Me. Moese’s Intended Yistt to Ameeica.—Mr. J. J.
Morse, the best of our native English trance mediums, intends
to visit the United States in the autumn, and an announce¬
ment to that effect has already been published in the Banner
of Light. He expects to leave England about the second week
in October, a few days after his annual soiree. Last Sunday
he delivered an inspirational lecture to a crowded meeting in
Newcastle. There was a full attendance, although the counter
attraction of a lecture by Mr. Bradlaugh had been expected to
reduce the number present. His address during the next
week will be 89, High-street, Gateshead-on-Tyne.
Mes. Tappan in Daelington.—Mr. G. R. Hinde, of
Eastbourne, Darlington, writes to state that the trance
orations recently, delivered by Mrs. Tappan in that town have
done very much good in the locality for the cause of Spiri¬
tualism. Arrangements are consequently being made for the
residence of Mrs. Tappan in Darlington during the whole of
the month of July, during which period she will deliver
lectures anywhere within a radius of thirty miles of her abode,
and friends in Darlington will bear a portion of the expenses.
Spiritualists in the north of England who desire to engage
Mrs. Tappan to lecture during the month of July should com¬
municate with Mr. Hindo.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 19, 1874.
<£romsponlience.
[(treat freedom, is given to correspondents, who som,times express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—Mrs. Tapp an, who, as an honorary member of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, has made a
donation of £5 to its funds, says, in answer to a subsequent
communication, “If an idea or association is worthy of any
support, it should receive it in an unqualified manner, and I
never support any measure by halves; besides, I hope my
example may induce others, who have thousands where I have
pence, to give more generously. The English Spiritualists
have received me very kindly, and among them are many who
have joined the British National Association of Spiritualists.
I cannot better wish the work ‘ God speed’ than by adding my
mite as well as my voice and powers.”
A. Jov, Hon. Sec.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
Reincabnation.—As announced in ano.ther column,
translations of Allan Kardeo’s works on Reincarnation are
shortly to be published in England, through the generosity of
the Countess of Caithness. At present the works are not on
sale in this country either in English or French, and when
they are we shall examine with much interest the arguments
which have had such great weight among Continental Spiri¬
tualists, and open our correspondence columns under certain
conditions to their consideration.
ANSWEES TO COEBESPONDENTS.
T.—The people who stood for him got themselves photographed,
and we believe that likenesses of all of them are in the many
pictures now in safe keeping.
GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER.
STUDIO:—45, CHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.O.
The article recently published in the Brighton Daily
News about the rise and progress of Spiritualism, is evidently
considered to be a fair summary of the facts, for it has been
quoted at full length by The Banner of Light (Boston), and the
Beligio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), the chief newspapers
connected with Spiritualism in the United States.
M. Buguet, the medium and spirit photographer, has
won a. great name among Parisian Spiritualists, but it is said
that in some of his pictures the spirits appear to be photo¬
graphed from engravings or drawings, therefore are not
genuine. As we do not know in what form spirits may pre¬
sent anything to be photographed, his mediumship ought to
be made a matter of close investigation before any opinions
are formed on the subject.
Flobence Maples.—Last Saturday, at a seance with
Miss Showers, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, W., the materialised spirit, Florence Maples,
would not allow light to fall upon her entranced medium, but
she led Mr. H. M. Dunphy into the cabinet, and stood by his
side while she placed his hand upon the chest of Miss Showers.
Mr. Dunphy thus felt her breathing. The dark room used as
a cabinet had been examined before the seance began; the
second door to the cabinet was locked, and a large piano
placed against it; the window was high above the street, there
being other rooms below. Among the guests present at this
seance were Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Douglas, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
Academy oe Music eob the Blind.— Last Friday, the
Duke of Westminster invited a large number of ladies and
gentlemen to Grosvenor House, to a concert by the pupils of
the Royal Normal College and Academy of Music for the
Blind. The concert was under the direction of the Principal
of the College, and Professors Wetherbee and Strachauer ; the
selections were well chosen, and in the more religious of them
there was nothing of a sectarian character. The extreme
sweetness of the music and the singing, was ample proof of
the current belief cthat the loss of one of the senses tends to
intensify the power and sensitiveness of the others. In recent
numbers of this journal, it was pointed out by the Baroness
Adelma Vay, by Dr. Childs, of Philadelphia, and by the editor,
that clairvoyant yision has undoubtedly in some cases been
possessed by persons physically blind, and that they have thus
not only been enabled to see the spirits of departed friends,
but persons in the body; and by the aid of this spiritual
vision to recognise objects, and find their way about the
streets. The importance of a discovery like this, resulting in
so much benefit to the afflicted, cannot be over-estimated, so
it is very desirable that mesmeric experiments should be tried
by those members of the medical profession who are interested
in the welfare of the blind. The members of the Royal
Family, and many of the English nobility, take a warm
interest in the institution now under notice ; consequently, if
the influential council which manages the affairs of the
College, could only manage to experimentally prove that
clairvoyant vision can be imparted by mesmerism to say one
blind person in five, lesser societies, formed for analogous
purposes, would be likely to imitate the example set before
them. The office of the secretaries of the Normal College for
the Blind is at 28, Mount-street, Grosvenor-square, W.; the
College itself is at Upper Norwood, and is open to inspection.
It is an institution which well deserves support by subscription.
List of Prices, £ s. d.
Album Portraits    6 for 0 5 0
„ „ ... ... ... ...   ,.. ... ... 12 „ 0 7 6
, „ „ • (2 positions)   12 „ 0 9 0
Group of two      I  ... ... ...12 „ 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Vignettes    ..12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest” ...    .,. ...     12 „ 0 32 6
Oameo Vignettes   :.   12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits     1 for 3s. 6d. or 6 „ 0 10 6
Drawing Boom Portraits, size by 6J    0 10 6
„ „ „ framed and coloured complete  1 1 0
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame       ...' ... L. complete ?' 2 0
Locket Portraits    ... each 0 2 6
„ i „ coloured    from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, Invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Critique in the Photographic News, November 22nd, 1872.
“ Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant,
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition.
Established in Comhill, 1862.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. Eeferences exchanged. Address H., .care of
T. Bly ton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.
A TEA MEETING OF SPIRITUALISTS on Sunday,
June 21st, at Mr. B. Cogman’s seance rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road,
Mile End-road, E., at 5 o’clock. Tickets one shilling each.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to the
“ PIONEER OF PBOGEESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office oi the Pioneer of Progress, 31, Museum-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
TI>SYCHISCHE 8TUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
JL devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksarof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsie, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Scrasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
June 19, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon.
Fiiz-GeraJd, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park-square.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square.
Hall, S. 0„ F.S.A., Avenue-villa, Holland-street, Kensington.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, "Warwiek-square, S."W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, "W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. Florence Marryat, 21, Colville-gardens, Kensingston-
park, W.
Senior, Mrs. H.. 67, Rodney-street, Liverpool.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, A lexandra-road, St. John’s-wood
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, N.E.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Huteheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, S.W.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel. J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14, Bumley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E, A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Attenberg-terrace, Clapham Junction, SW.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden,
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M.tLeyroarie, M.D., Paris.
Dr". Nehrer, Vienna.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the -GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
IV/TR. W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica*
ion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Regis-tbr your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.’’ Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on-all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiadicg, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
COMPANION or GOVERNESS in a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspective Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. French, Italian, Music, and Needlework. Good
References. Address C. S., Morley’s Library, Forest-hill, London.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table d'Hote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS, By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and 'he other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jbens—i Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
June 19, 1874,
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, • Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a. Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq.; H.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.;• William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, Or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—'
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters, One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence. .
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the aecuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of. other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
Just published,
The second volume of « what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
' CONTENTS:—
Chap.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IY. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co Paternoster-row.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
JL (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri-
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso
phieal and high-class character.'’—{•pirilualist.
■‘The address quite riveted the attention of the audience."—Eastbourne
Chronicle.-
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent."—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
miE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
X ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual,. Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 4i, Bemard-street,
Russell-square. 'Applicants may call, if preferable.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printirg
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of Sf. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by_E, W.
AlijEN, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
