A RECORD OF THE PROQRE^p OF THE J3CIEJMCE AND ETHICg Of $PIF(ITUADI£M.
[EEQISTEKED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 44. (VOL. III.—No. 5.)
LONDON: JAN. 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
foments.
The Want of Precision in Spiritual Mauifestations   66
The Influence of Fear upon the Hair   66
Some Experiences and Conclusions Regarding Spiritualism  68
Other World Order    69
The Times Newspaper on Spiritualism.—Seance with Miss Fox and Mr.
Home ; Mr. Serjeant Cox on Spiritual Phenomena ; Mr. A. R. Wal¬
lace on Spiritual Phenomena; Mr. Maskelyne’s Performances; Dr.
Cameron on Spiritualism; The Editor of the Times on Spiritualism;
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., on the Times Discussion  70
The Anthropological Institute   ... 76
Death-warning of Haroun-al-Rasehid   76
Correspondence.—Men and Women; Spirit Faces; Proselytising; Ex¬
periences of an Investigator; Psychic Force   77
American Spiritualism  >  73
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Seances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling I
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
MRS. OLIVE, Trance Medium for Test Communica¬
tions from Spirit Relatives and Friends; also for the Cure of
various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescriptions.—49, Belmont-
street, Chalk Farm-road, London, N.W.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 1], Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Eingsland—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, 8.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
TAPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
U remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the line properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills."
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of OACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
"DRITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
JL> LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D.. Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William GimberGoodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster,
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S.,' &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ’’
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
I > Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Seeurities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the RegistratGeneral for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returaed varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest’on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
T>RITTSH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
E > LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head 0#ces.-BRO WN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at'equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
"ORITTSH IMPERIAL LIFE, AND BRITISH
JL> NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of Hie above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at'tire Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.O., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.O.
Also Part I., price 6d, Cloth, 9d.
Jan. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
(56
Cjxe Sprritnaibt U-etospaper.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words of portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondknck.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer-sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of 'The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. Cd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-Jane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be'Ordered of him by post, direct.
. THE AVANT OF PRECISION IN SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
When, by presence at a few seances, the physical
philosopher gains the knowledge that spiritual mani¬
festations are real, his first idea usually is that he is on
the threshold of discovering either a variety of new
forces, or new methods of applying old ones, and he
proceeds to devise experiments. After a time, he dis¬
covers that the manifestations come at uncertain times
and places, and in an uncertain way; also, that the
intelligences who give them either cannot or will not
give much information as to the method of their pro¬
duction. He tries to increase their power by varying
the physical conditions, by raising or lowering the tem¬
perature, or by using particular kinds of light for the,
illumination of the room, but beyond discovering that
the long red and yellow waves of light are very slightly
better for the manifestations than the short blue and
violet ones, he finds that he has scarcely any power
over the results, neither can he guarantee beforehand
any results at all. “ Can you deflect this flame in my
vacuum tube?” says the philosopher. “Be loving one
to another, and you will be happier when you enter
spirit life,” may be the reply of the raps. “ I knew
that before,” replies the vexed philosopher; “ why do
you not tell me something new ?” He tries force, and
imposes his own conditions upon the manifestations.
In rare instances these conditions may be submitted
to; in many cases the manifestations are stopped; and
in some they are given, but the imposed conditions are
destroyed. There is, then, strong temptation on the
part of the physicist to regard Spiritualism as a fruitful
source of anxiety and vexation of spirit.
If, on the other hand, Spiritualism be regarded a's a
mental science, at once it is discovered that there are
methods of most powerfully influencing the manifesta¬
tions. Let the medium be happy, and give him a
circle composed of a few affectionate friends, all de¬
siring revelations from the next world, and receiving
them with pleasure, and the manifestations take place
with great power. Make the medium unhappy, and
introduce into the circle a few people who look upon
him as a rogue, who also consider it to be a great
favour on tlieir part that they condescend to attend,
and the manifestations disappear like snow, before the
sun, and are sometimes banished altogether.
AVere it possible to reduce Spiritualism to physics,
and nothing more, new inventions might be stimulated,
and some good accrue to the world, but its religious
element, and its power to reform social abuses would be
in a great measure lost. If it revealed a new force
which men could apply at once to various mechanical
purposes, all the Fellows of the Royal Society, all the
members of the British Association, and all the educated
people in England, would have no choice but to enter
the ranks of Spiritualism at once. Reviewers who mis¬
represent that which is true, hard-headed scientific or
commercial men with no object in life but the accumu¬
lation of wealth or the gratification of personal ambi¬
tion, would be forced into the movement. AVbuld not
the entrance of men of this stamp tend to utterly de¬
stroy the religious aspect of Spiritualism, and its power
in time to alleviate many of the sufferings and to in¬
crease many of the pleasures of humanity ?
As the facts now stand in reality, a bad man who
is continually injuring his neighbours and dependents
for the sake of what he deems to be'his own good, can
no more enter the inner circles of Spiritualism than he
can enter melted copper. AVe have never met one such
man in the ranks of accredited and thorough Spiritual¬
ists, though they are plentiful enough both inside and
outside orthodox churches. If their intellect leads them
to begin to inquire into Spiritualism, they naturally take
a dislike to it directly the very practical bearing of its
revelations begins to come home to their understanding.
If it were a mere matter of physics, they would not be
thus shut out of its ranks.
The want of precision, the uncertainty, and the sus¬
picious appearances surrounding many spiritual mani¬
festations, tend to repel persons who are suspicious in
their own nature, or who will not work perseveringly
at the investigation of the phenomena. Thus, only
particular persons are able to penetrate the barriers
surrounding personal knowledge of Spiritualism ; those
persons are persevering, they are intellectual, they are not
afraid of the anathemas of the preachers, they are bound
together more or less by the affections. If these general
results be due to the want of precision of the manifesta¬
tions, and the circumstance of their being influenced by
mental conditions, then it is for the good of mankind
that Spiritualism gives very little aid at present to
physics.
THE INFLUENCE OF FEAR UPON THE HAIR.*
It is asserted that mental emotions and violent
passions have, in a single night, made the hair grey.
This is said to be owing to the increased determination
of blood stimulating the absorbents into •preternatural
activity, and causing them to talce up the colouring
matter of the hair. Disappointment, bereavement,
deep grief, intense care and anxiety, produce devas¬
tating effects upon the hair. Dr. War drop, writing
upon “ Diseases of the Heart,” states, that the changes
which are induced by arterial disturbance upon the
cutaneous capillaries, are illustrated in a remarkable
manner in persons where the hair of the head has sud¬
denly become white, from increased action of the heart
caused by violent mental excitement. A lady who was
deeply grieved on receiving the intelligence of a great
change in her worldly condition, and who had a very
remarkable quantity of dark hair, found on the follow¬
ing morning the wholeof her hair had become silver white.
Some striking instances of this kind are narrated by
* From The Human Hair, Try Alexander Rcwland. London: Piper
Piper, Brothers, and Go., J855. Do any of our readers know any authen¬
ticated eases of change of colour of hair resulting from fear or trouble ?—
Ed.
Jan. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
historians. I may instance that of Mary, Queen of
Scots. Sir Walter Scott says,—
‘ ‘ For deadly fear can time outgo,
And blanche at once the hair.”—Marmion, Canto I.
M. Bichat relates that, in the course of one night,
the hair of an acquaintance of his turned almost con¬
spicuously white, on receiving .some dreadful intelli¬
gence. Sir Thomas More, we are told, became grey
during the night preceding his execution. Lord Byron
alludes to this generally received opinion in aThe Pri¬
soner of Chillon : ”—
“ My hair is grey, though not with years ;
Nor grew it white
In a single night,
As men’s have grown from sudden fears.”
Falstaff, in Shakespeare’s Xinr/ Henry IV., says,—
“ Thy father’s beard is turned white with the news.”
Mr. E rasmus Wilson, E.R.S., doubts, however, the
possibility of the blanching of the hair in a single night,
or even in a single week.
It is generally stated (observes Dr. Hassall) as an
undoubted fact, that the hair may turn white, or be¬
come colourless, under the influence of strong and
depressing mental emotions in the course of a single
night. This singular change, if it ever does occur in
the short space of time referred to, can only be the
result of the transmission of a fluid possessing strong
bleaching properties along the entire length of the hair,
and which is secreted in certain peculiar states of the
mind.
“ I was struck,” says Madame Campan, “with the
astonishing change misfortune had wrought upon Marie
Antoinette’s features; h.er whole head of hair had
turned almost white daring her transit from Yarennes
to Paris.” When the Duchess of Luxembourg was
caught making her escape during the terrors of the
French Devolution, and put into prison, it was ob¬
served the next morning that her hair had become
white. A Spanish officer, distinguished for his bravery,
was in the Duke of Alva’s camp, and an experimeht
was made by one of the authorities to test his courage.
At midnight, the provost- marshal, accompanied by his
guard and a confessor, awoke him from his sleep, in¬
forming him that, by order of the viceroy, he was to be
executed, and had only a quarter of an hour left to
make his peace with Heaven. After he had confessed,
he said that he was prepared for death, but declared
his innocence. The provost-marshal at this moment
burst into a fit of laughter, and told him that they
merely wanted to try his courage. Placing his hand
upon his heart, and with a ghastly paleness, he ordered
the provost out of his tent, observing that he had
“done him an evil office;” and the next morning, to
the wonder of the whole army, theffiair of his head,
from having been of a deep black colour, had become
perfectly white.
JBorellus relates the circumstance of a young noble¬
man who “ was cast in prison, and on the morrow after,
ordered to lose his head; he passed the night in such
fearful apprehensions of death that the next day, Caesar
sitting on the tribunal, he appeared so unlike himself
that he was known to none that were present—no, not
to Caesar himself, the comeliness and beauty of his face
being vanished, his countenance like a dead man’s, and
his hair and beard turnqd grey, and in all respects so
changed that tho emperor at first suspected some coun¬
terfeit was substituted in his room. He caused him,
therefore, to be examined if he were the same, and trial
to be made if his hair and beard were not thus changed by
art; but finding nothing counterfeit, astonished at the
countenance and strange visage of the man, he was
moved to pity, and mercifully gave him pardon for the
crime he had committed.”
When the hair becomes suddenly white under the
shock of a severe moral impression, Yauquelin is of
opinion that this phenomenon is to be attributed to the
sudden extrication of some acid, as the oxymuriatic acid
is found to whiten black hairs. Parr thinks that this
accident may be owing to the absorption of the oil of
the hair, by its sulphur, as in the operation of whiten¬
ing woollen cloths.
Man, to a certain extent, and many animals in a
considerable degree, possess the power of erecting the
hairs. This power, in man, is limited to the hair of the
head; in many animals it is much more general. Most
persons on sudden exposure to cold, and on experiencing
any emotion of fear or horror, feel a creeping sensation
pass over the head; this sensation is accompanied by a
certain degree of erection of the hair; but not, indeed,
to such an extent as to cause it to “ stand on end.”
Now, this emotion, according to Dr. Hassall, from whom
I quote, is the result of the distribution of fibres of
elastic and contractile tissue throughout the substance
of the corium, and which, interlacing amongst the hair
follicles, occasion the erection of the hairs themselves.
Macbeth says:—
“ Whose horrid image doth untix my hair.”
And again:—
“ The time has been * * *
* * * and my fell of hair
Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
As life were in’t.”
The effects of sudden fright, passion, and excitement,
it is well known, have frequently an astonishing effect
upon the hair. Sir Walter Scott alludes to this:—
‘ ‘ Back from her shoulders streamed her hair;
The locks, that wont her brow to shade,
, Stared up erectly on her head.”—Marmion, Canto II.
In the book of. Job, at the appearance of a super¬
natural presence, Eliphas states that the hair of his
“ flesh stood up.”
Seneca uses language remarkably similar to this, in
describing the effect of fear, in Hercule (Etceo:—
“ Vagus per artus errat excussos tremor.
Erectus horret crinis, impulsis ad hoc
Stat terror animis, et cor attonitum salit,
Pavidumque trepidis palpitat venis jecur.”
So Yirgil
“ Steteruntque comae, et vox faucibus haesit.’ —lEn. II., 774.
And again JSn, III., 48, and IY., 289.
So also HJn. XII., 868 :—
“ Arrectaeque horrore comae.”
A similar description of the result of terror is given
by Shakespeare in the Ghost’s speech fo Hamlet:—
“I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word
Would make * * *
The knotted and combined locks to part,
And each particular hair to stand on end,
Like quills upon the fretful porcupine.”
The fact that alarm or fright causes the hair to stand
omend is too well established and too common to admit
a doubt. The cause may be that sudden fear drives the
blood to the heart as the seat of vitality, and the ex¬
tremities being left cold, the skin thus contracts, and
the effect is to raise the hair.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1873.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING- SPIRITUALISM.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
I AM sending for your columns, if you should think them
worthy to appear there, a few extracts from a record of seanc.es
held in my house at Malvern several years ago. The medium
in them all was Mr. Home, who was a frequent visitor of mine
for several weeks at a time. The circle was composed of my
two sisters and myself, a lady making a prolonged sojourn
with us, sometimes a male friend, and occasionally my butler,
an old and valued servant, and himself having some mediumistic
power. I make extracts only, because the entire history
would occupy too much of your space, and because the pith
of the sittings will suffice as a text for some remarks which I
desire 1o make on the general scope and aims of Spiritualism
as they appear to my mind. After the physical manifestations
and trance exhibitions which have come befoi’e us during the
last three or four years, I feel that the phenomena which I
have to relate may appear inferior, at least, of less sensational
interest ; but, as will appear in my subsequent remarks,
that is the very reason why I deem them worthy of mention
at this later date of the history of Spiritualism.
When Mr. Home paid his first visit to me at Malvern, in Sep¬
tember, 1862, he was smarting under the recent loss of his young
wife, and had lost all medium power since her passing away,
two months before. After a fortnight, Home came into break¬
fast one day, and told us he should have his power that day ;
that his wife had been sitting on his bed during the night,
and had told him so ; told him also that he was to abandon
his mourning costume (which, by the way, she had bade
him, in her last earthly moments, not to wear), and that she
desired him to open the windows of his bedroom, and in two
minutes after he had done so she told him to close it again.
When dressing in the morning, he found that the black shirt
studs were no longer in their places, and shortly after break¬
fast the gardener brought them to the house, having found
them lying on the short cut grass underneath Home’s window;
almost simultaneously his hat was brought into the breakfast-
room, having been found hanging in the entrance hall with
the black cloth torn from it, and only held by a small shred.
As the spirit had promised, his medium power was present
in the evening of that same day, when we formed the circle,
and then came the spirits of my father and a daughter who
bad passed away twenty-three years before, in her third year,
giving me the acutest moral suffering I have ever undergone.
Her name was Fanny, and she always announced herself as
“ Papa’s little Fanny.” She first came to me in 1856, when
sitting with another medium, and I there and then identified
her by her recalling to me a little joke which she and I often
played off when alone together in the last year of her earthly
life, when I was both father and mother to her, and which she
and I alone knew. Subsequently she informed me that she
is a medium in the spirit world, and in this her capacity, P
have been enabled to have the wondrous felicity of holding
communion with my father, mother, sister, wife (little Fanny’s
mother), brother,—all the loved ones of my younger years,
and allied to my spirit child by blood. The child herself told
me her history, thus :—“ When I passed from my body, holy
angels took possession of me, and instructed me in holy things,
and when it was judged by the Almighty God that I had
wisdom sufficient, I was sent on my mission to you, darling
papa, and I have seldom left your side since.” Such is the
beautiful spirit, through whose instrumentality I have ob¬
tained the brightest and holiest peep into that glorious here¬
after of humanity. I dwell upon this, because her character,
and the character of her communications, have given to my
view of Spiritualism the special hue and aim which I would
fain impart in the subsequent remarks.
But to return ; my spirit child has been described to me by
two mediums, each unknown to the other, in exactly the
same terms,—as a tall woman, with long wavy hair, large
forehead, deep set eyes of blue-like sapphire (the simile
uttered on both occasions), and with a most mirthful expres¬
sion of countenance. I once asked her what was the colour of
her eyes, to which she replied, “ Naughty papa, you know they
are blue.” Once when Home, my sisters, and myself were
seated near our expiring fire and a flickering candle (though
not in seance at all), the heavy silk curtains of a large oriel
window were drawn aside slowly, and the bright white-clothed
figure of a tall woman w§.s disclosed in the opening. She
was standing in the air, her head near to the ceiling ; we
asked for her name, and by raps were answered, “ Little
Fanny —she is always little to me, she says, “because you
knew and loved me as your little girl.” Strange to Say,
I could not see any face to the figure above described,—
there was a blank where it should have been. At a sub¬
sequent sitting, I asked her if I should ever see her whilst
I was in the flesh, for I yearned to do so. She replied,
“ You will see me when you are in the act of leaving
it, but before you have lost sight of the earth around
you ; we spirits delight to wait for our loved ones.”
She has told me that in the spirit world her name is
Gladness, and certainly her joyous light raps running about
the table so as almost to represent laughter, are in keeping
with her name ; that my father’s spirit name is Love, and
my mother’s Trust, which seems to point to Swedenborg’s
spiritual family names according to special attributes. One
day a stranger to our circle joined it, and, when little Fanny
was named, asked who she was? I replied, “A daughter,
whom I lost many years ago ; ” to which she immediately
replied, “ Am I lost papa ? ” and then patted my hands with
hers, and her small raps danced all over the table with joy.
She has kissed me a score of times, on my bald head, on my
ears, on my cheeks, on my hands. She has pulled my hair
and ears playfully, and once, when Tasked her to pull my
hair, she gave me a start by pulling sharply the hair on the
back of my hand. She has crowned me with a vase of
flowers and with the cross-work elastic wood frame used ‘for
flower-pots. She has taken my watch and chain from me,
and I heard her shaking them at the other end of the room,
and then place them in my sister’s hand at the other side of
the table. To her I am mediumistic : if I cannot get to
sleep on one side, she has whispered to me, “right side,” or
left side,” as it may have been. If I sleep uncomfortably,
a very loud rap in the room awakes me, and then my head
and face are fanned. I have often heard her little taps on
my pillow before going to sleep, and even had my pillow
moved under my head. One evening, at my late meal, I ate
a risole, stating, at the same time, that they generally dis¬
agreed with me ; an hour and a half afterwards, we made a
circle, but the manifestations were very weak. Enquiring for
the reason, she said, “ One of you is suffering, and that dis¬
ables us.” Home pointed to each one at the table, and at me.
She rapped and said, “ We tried hard to” impress you not to
eat those balls (the round risoles).” Another instance of this
constant presence : at breakfast we were discussing the
question of the reasonableness of seeking the counsel of
spirits about worldly affairs, and concluded that it was folly
to do so. Twelve hours after that, at nine in the evening, we
formed a circle, when immediately my child began, “ You
were quite right this morning, darling papa. We only come
to lift a small corner of the veil of the life mystery, and to
show that the affections outlive the physical change ; it is
your duty to cultivate the faculties God has bestowed on you,
which could not be the case if we were to guide you in all
things : we live and love.” “ Then,” said I, “ it is not well
for us to apply to you for guidance.” Answer—“ Why should
you ? are we not mortal, like yourselves, only having escaped
from the intricate mechanism called the body ? ” “ But what
do you mean by being mortal now, Fanny ? ’’ Answer—“ We
are mortal in our affections.” “And where are you, relative
to this earth ? ” Answer—“ Our heaven is the eternal, and
earth is an atom of affection floating therein.”
At a sitting a few days afterwards, I returned to this sub¬
ject, and asked, “Then the loves of earth and life are not for¬
gotten in your present life ? ” Answer—“ How could we
selfishly forget those whose affections were our earthly sun¬
beams ? ” “ Does not that tend to bind you to earth ? ”
Answer—“Yes, but we have Almighty God’s mission to those
on earth.” “Then you are influenced by my mental con¬
dition ? ” Answer—*■ I find that as your spiritual state rises,
so is my power of rising also.” “ Then, my child, you must
have had much to vex and grieve you in yortr spiritual
journey with me?” Answer—“We neither vex nor grieve,
but sympathise and try to bring peace.” “ Then when your
mission is ended, you will rise spiritually?’’ Answer, “ We
only then devote all bur thoughts to a more perfect spiritual
development when we have our earthly loadstar with us.”
“ And what is jour earthly loadstar, Fanny ? ” “ You (very
emphatically delivered), siy own darling, sweet papa 1 ” At
the close of this seance, my other loved ones in the spirit
world said this through my child :—“ The others say that they
have all been here with me, but left me to communicate. Now
to your earthly rest—good night.”
On an occasion nearly a year after the above, she began a
sitting with, “ We wish to converse—question, papa.” I there¬
fore asked, S Have you progressed in the last year ? ” Answer
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1873.
—“ I find, as you progress on earth, that it greatly aids me ;
I have progressed much the past year of your earthly time.”
Question—“You know how often I pray for you to be with
me?” Answer—“I allude to that; prayer is the strong
uniting link that binds God to us and us to you. I have
borne your prayers to Our Fathbk (given with the greatest
solemnity, the table inclining at each letter), only reserving
the perfume of affection for myself.” “Do you minister
between us and God ? ” “ It is a law of nature which
comprises so much of the Divine (emphasized) that we
should minister to the objects of our affections, that it would
be impossible for us to avoid so doing, even if we would, pro¬
vided you are not impure in thought and action.” “ You said, a
short time ago, that you bore my prayers to God ; is your spirit
near me when I pray ? ” “ Prayer is the soul's magnetism,
which purifies-and allows us to approach you ! When I say I
bear your prayers to God, I only speak figuratively ; I mean
to say that we, seeing your aspirations for good, come as LOVE
SPIRITS ; God is everywhere, and ‘ God is love.’ ” The under¬
linings were all most emphatically given. At this same sitting
she was asked concerning a little grandson of mine, who, a
few months before had passed away in scarlet fever, and who,
after many hours of profound stupor, suddenly opened his
eyes widely, looked upward eagerly into space, smiled all
over his face, fell back, and died : she replied, “ I received
his spirit, and I soothed him,” illustrating the word by gently
rocking fhe table, then exclaiming, “ Won’t we all have a >oy-
ous meeting! ”
On another occasion I returned to the question of their con¬
stant communion of love with us who are left on the earth, and
she said : “ Were we to loose the ties that bind us to earth, we
would lose the true sense of our immortality.” I suggested that
“ they must feel their real immortality by comparing it with
their earthly'affections and sensations,” to which she answered,
“No spiritual joy could be perfect without the comparison of
the natural.” I remarked upon the wisdom of answers from
one who passed away in childhood, and she replied,
“ Wisdom is ever child-like.” I then remarked to the circle
that from her organisation she gave promise of great intellec¬
tual and moral powers, when she struck in, “ So much the more
should I progress here where there is nought to check the de¬
velopment of the soul, where truth is the sun, wisdom the
fountain, and God is love.” I once asked her if prayer went
direct to God : “ It passes through holier and holier spirits.”
“ Is the answer to prayer direct ? ” “ Always direct from the
throne of God.”
My own idea of prayer is that it is idle, and faithless too, to
ask for a number of things, some of which may not be good for
us, and that it is better to leave all that concerns our mun¬
dane wants to God’s love and wisdom, but that for what we
know must be good for us—the spirit of holiness, truth, charity,
and love,—it is reasonable and useful to ask for it from its
only source, and that the act of interior petition and yearning
actually puts us in communion with that source, and gives us
a portion of what we could never, of ourselves, attain ; be¬
lieving, too, that God acts by the mission of high spirits, I
think it useful to pray that such may be sent to aid us in our
higher and better moral desires. With this belief I asked my
spirit child, “ Is it needful to use any other prayer chan that which
Ido?” The answer came, “ That comprises all; for if we
can guide you we will do so, in the path of truth.” It is to be
understood that 1 made no mention of my particular thoughts
regarding prayer, in putting my question. I asked her one
day what would become of her when I should pass out of the
body ; reply : “ My mission will end, and yours will begin.”
“ Can you say what ray mission is likely £o be ? ” “ Most
probably to your dear children.” (I have still three upon
earth). “ Shall you rise into higher spheres then ? ” “ Yes,
you alone keep me here.” “ But will that make communion
between us more difficult?” “Not at all, we can always
communicate then.” I will not dwell more at present upon
the communications of this beloved spirit child, but I cannot
refrain at this spot from reciting a seance in which she was
referred to in the year 1868, some time after what I have
above recorded. The seance was at Pau, in the Pyrenees, at
the house of a friend, Mrs. Hamilton, now well-known among
investigators of the subject ; the medium was a Swiss lady who
spoke no language but French ; she was a writing medium,
with planchette, and the cbmmunications accordingly were all
in that language. A spirit came who would only give the ini¬
tials of her name, and I could not for nearly half-an-hour, fill
them up, until by her allusions to far away events, I came to
the conclusion that she was a young lady of Edinburgh with
whom I was well-acquainted during the last year of my
09
sojourn at the university)of that city, and whom I aided under
painful circumstances, I filled up the names mentally, and
the planchettc instantly wrote vehemently, and three times
over “ Yes.” I saw the lady in question for the last time in
1830—forty-two years ago! and she had not come into my
memory for, I should say, twenty years. She wrote through
the medium over and over again “ Priez pour moi: Je suis
Men malheureuse; " and in answer to questions she wrote,
“ Helas ! je menais une mauvaise vie: je tombais dans la vice ;
j'ai quitte' mon malhenreux corps plus que vingt ans ; je viens
d vous pareeque vous etiez bon pour moi; ” interjecting all
these revelations with “ Priez pour moi? I asked if she
knew aught of my spirit child ; she wrote, “A 7* / oui; mais elle
est bien, bien loin de moi, elle est dans la lumiere; elle est unc
ange cherie, et moi je spis malheureuse? Do you see her about
me? Pile est toujours ld,je vois ; elle vous inspire? I know
not where to seek for refutation or confirmation of this sad
spirit’s account of herself, the time is so long since I knew of
her earthly circumstance and surroundings. But that she.
should come to me more (ban twenty years after her depar¬
ture hence, in a foreign land, by the influences of a foreign
medium, whom I had never seen before, and I have never
seen since, and identify herself to me by recalling events of
forty-two years ago, is one of those curiosities of Spiritualism,
which is quite insoluble by any theory concerning the cause
and process of manifestations through mediums as yet known,
or probably ever to be known.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE.
Perhaps no statement of Swendeborg appears more
absurd at first bearing than the assertion that Heaven
is in the human form, and not only Heaven, but every
Angelic Society, and not only every Angelic Society,
but every station and community on earth.
Yet, ought not comprehension to precede ridicule ?
and, as so often happens, may not comprehension ex¬
tinguish ridicule ?
First, let us discriminate between form and shape.
When we are told that France is in the human form,
it is obviously untrue that France is in the human
shape. Form is defined by Swedenborg as applica¬
tion to use. Hence, whatever instrument or combina¬
tion of instruments, fulfils a use similar to that of the
hand would be described by him as in the form of the
hand, whilst all the while nothing in the shape thereof
might appear. All the tools wherewith we accomplish
efficiently what with our fingers and nails we might
attempt indifferently, are to a Swedenborgian eye
developments of the hand—the extension, subdivision,
and perfection of its offices.
And, with this explanation, I may turn and ask,
How is it possible for a community, or a. nation, or
mankind, to be in any save the human form ? What
is any society but a magnified individual ?
A human being in isolation (were such a creature
possible) would do everything for himself, and in doing
everything for himself would find his whole energies
consumed in providing himself with food and shelter.
Savages who make the nearest approach to individual
independence are, like animals, almost entirely en¬
grossed in procuring physical sustenance, and not un-
frequently perish from famine.
But, as savages become civilised, or, in other words,
enter into social life, what happens? Why, simply
that the individual ceases to do so much for himself—
that a division of labour ensues. One man confines
himself to hunting, another to fishing, another to hus¬
bandry, another to carpentry, another to weaving, and
so on. And, each confining himself to a special use,
not only does more work in less time, but acquires
special skill and does better work? And as civilisation
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
advances, the division of labour proceeds to further and
further refinements, until, as in England, we have a
social and industrial organisation of an almost incon¬
ceivable complexity,—a complexity that we may rea¬
sonably assume will appear as simple to succeeding
and more exquisitely developed generations.
We may also observe that in the order of nature,
organisation is synonymous with division, and special¬
isation of function with division of labour. The
simplest, creature, the Ascidian, from which it is the
pleasure of Darwinians to evolve the animal kingdom,
is a sack or stomach which includes and excludes
water, the element wherein it thrives; and the same
Darwinians conjecture that what is accomplished in
that sack is what is accomplished in man by a more
intricate mechanism,—a mechanism that may be re¬
duced or referred back to Ascidian simplicity.
Let me repeat, there is nothing and can be nothing
in society that is not in the individual^—in the macro¬
cosm that is not in the microcosm. As Herbert Spencer
says, “ The properties of the aggregate are deter¬
mined by the properties of its units.” Only we have
in society a perfection in detail, which, in the indi¬
vidual, is latent in gross.
Thus fortified, I proceed to assert that man is not to
be found in perfection in the individual, but in society,
and in the highest perfection in universal humanity.
Unlike animals in general, man is a social creature.
A couple of dogs, or fowls, or fish, are as complete in
themselves as in a myriad. Association developes no
faculties, begets no improvement, nor any organisation.
It is altogether otherwise with man. After a super¬
ficial analogy, he may be individually likened to a stone
in a building which acquires importance through its
position and relations. Individually, he is insigni¬
ficant; socially, he may be as the keystone of an
arch.
The truth thus stated may be to some as a truism
from antiquity, forming the staple of many a well-
known argument. When St. Paul wrote to the
Ephesians,—“ The body is not one, but many: there
be many members but one body. The eye cannot say
to the hand, I have no need of thee ; nor can the head
to the feet, I have no need of you. If one member
suffer, all the members suffer with it; or if one member
be honoured, all the members rejoice with itand to
the Homans, £< For, as we have many members in one
body, and all members have not the same office, so we,
being many, are one body in Christ, and every one
members one of another”—he used illustrations which
would commend themselves to the common sense of
every reader. Prophets and poets, philosophers and
politicians, in all ages, have recognised the humanity of
communities, and in divers manners have incited their
fellows to the perfection of that humanity on the model
of the individual. It was Milton’s prayer, that England
might be “ as one huge Christian personage, one mighty
•growth and stature of an honest man, as big and com¬
pact in virtue as in body and from Plato to Comte a
volume of testimonies might be compiled in evidence
of the truth that Communities are Men on a larger
scale. How plainly, too, does it now appear, that uni¬
versal history is the biography of a man, and that man
the Human Race!’
“In what, then,” it may be asked, “consists the
novelty of Swedenborg’s doctrine ?” And I would
reply, in the confidence and sincerity wherewith he
enforces it. The deepest truths are often uttered un¬
Jan. 15, 1873.
consciously and vaguely, and the probability is, that
many who speak of the “ unity of humanity,” of the
“ manhood of the nation,” and of the “ communion of
saints,” would dissipate their words as metaphor and
fancy if brought to test with the queries—“ Do you
really mean that England is a man? that the human
race is a unit ? that a good man is in vital relations
with angels ? ”
What, then, I have to say for Swedenborg (and for
myself) is, that he meets such queries with a sober,
matter-of-fact affirmative. He means precisely what
he asserts, that communities of men are great men;
that combinations of communities are greater men ; and
that the combination of all communities is the Grand
Man.
In conclusion, let me remark, that he teaches that
humanity in singular and universal is human, because
its Creator, Sustainer, and Vivifier is Man.
“ All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
Whose body Nature is, and God the soul.”
THE TIMES NEWSPAPER ON SPIRITUALISM.
The discussion in the Times on Spiritualism ended
on January 6th, and before giving a summary of the
correspdndence, perhaps it may be of interest to print a
full report of the chief seance at which the Times com¬
missioner was present. It will show how very care¬
fully the narrative was pruned down before publica¬
tion, and that startling as were the facts given to the
public, several of a very remarkable character were
omitted. The Times article, as originally given in by
the author, was nearly twice its present length. The
seance took place a year ago,—namely, on the 24th of
November, 1871. Notes of all the occurrences were
made in writing directly they were witnessed. The
full narrative, of which the following is a copy, was
written out from the notes immediately after the
seance, and a copy sent to Mr. N. B., the Times com¬
missioner. He returned it with pencil memoranda;
these memoranda are given below as footnotes :—
SEANCE WITH: MISS EOX AND ME. HOME.
Present—Miss Fox, Mr. Home, mediums ; Mr. N. B., the
Times reporter; Mrs. J. H., Mrs. E. H., Mr. Mrs. and Miss C.,
and Miss 0.
The party sat in a large dining-room, round a heavy din¬
ing-table with four legs. J he room was at first lighted by gas.
Afterwards the gas was turned out,'and two lamps giving
yellow flames were lighted. Towards the end of the seance
these lamps were put out, and the room was only illuminated
by the fire and the lights in the street.
The table had a leaf in it at first, and measured 4 ft. 5 in.
by 6 ft. 4 in. During the seanee the leaf was removed ; the
table then measured 4 ft. 5 in. by 4 ft. 7 in. The weight of
the table without the leaf was 108 lbs. The force required to
tilt it up on one side was 54 lbs. The force required to push
or pull it along the carpet was 23 lbs.
On the table were ornamental glass troughs full of flowers,
an accordion, a thin wooden lath 23 inches long by inch
wide, and ^th inch thick weighing about two ounces, a small
brass hand-bell, matches, sheets of paper, pencil, and two
spirit lamps with salted wicks.
Before the party assembled Mr. N. B. examined the room,
furniture, &c., looked at the sheets of paper and marked each
one of them by tearing off their corners, which he kept, tried
the accordion, &c.
At about 9 p.m. the rest of the party entered the room and
seated themselves round the table. It was agreed that any
objection on the grounds of suspicion, imperfect observation,
&c., were to be taken at the time, Mr. Home specially re¬
questing this, and offering to be searched in any way Mr. N. B.
desired. The party sat round the table in the following
order-;—
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
Jan. 15, 1873.
cn'
u>
O
w
O
Mr. N. B.
Miss Fox
Mrs. E. H,
Mrs. J. H.
Mr. Home
Mrs. C.
Mr. C.
Almost as soon as the party took their seats, loud raps came
apparently from the table and floor. Mr. N. B. got under the
table whilst the raps were going on, but detected nothing to
account for them.
Miss Fox and Mr. N. B. went by themselves to the door
and put their hands together on it, when immediately loud
thumps were heard apparently on the panels as if done with
the fist. These thumps were repeated at Mr. N. B.’s request
a desired number of times. The two then resumed their
seats.
The table moved in different directions along the floor a few
inches at a time. Mr. Home then put his feet up and knelt
in his chair, his feet and legs being visible to all, and his two
hands being on the table in front of him. Every one else
removed their hands from the table. Under these circum¬
stances Mr. N. B., who sat opposite to Mr. Home, asked for
the table to be made light and heavy alternately. This
request was granted, and he said be felt a difference of at
least 18 or 20 lbs. weight between these two conditions. This
was repeated several times under different conditions, sug¬
gested by Mr. Home and Mr. N. B., and with similar results.
On one occasion Miss Fox sat quite away from the table,
Mr. Home kneeling on his chair with his feet and hands
visible the whole time.
The movements of the table still continuing, it was pro¬
posed by Mr. N. B. that an experiment should be tried similar
to the one described in the report of the Dialectical Society.
All the sitters accordingly turned their chairs round, their
backs towards the table, and about six inches from it. They
then knelt on their chairs and put the tips of their fingers
lightly on the table. Mi’. N. B. went round to see that all
were in the right position, and then at Mr. Home’s suggestion,
got under the table. Presently rather faint raps were heard,
which, according to Mr. N. B., appeared to come from the
table and the floor, and the table shook and moved sufficiently
to cause a cedar pencil which was on it to roll along a sheet
of paper. Mr. N. B. then got up and knelt on his chair as the
rest ; the movements and raps were repeated. All the hands
were then raised from the table to a heigh th of'about four
inches, when a slight vibration and movement of the table
took place. During this time there was ample light in the
room, and any attempt on the part of anyone present to touch
the table with hand, foot, or other part of the body would
have been instantly detected.
Whilst kneeling in this manner, the chairs occasionally
vibrated strongly. Distinct vibrations of the chairs, the table,
and the floor occurred occasionally during the whole seance.
The vibrations had no relation to passing vehicles.
Mr. Home took the accordion in the usual manner in his right
hand, holding it by the end away from the keys, and held it
under the table. Presently it was heard to sound, and Mr.
N. B. gotlmder the table with a lighted lamp. The sounds were
still heard, and then notes* were touched, and a beautiful air
(unknown) was played. Mr. N. B. reported from under the
table that he could see the instrument expanding and con¬
tracting, and that Mr. Home’s hand at the upper end appeared
quite still.f Whilst Mr. N. B. was observing in this way
* Note by the “ Times ” reporter.—Neither my knowledge of accordion
music nor what I saw under the table is sufficient for me to testify positively
that the keys moved.—N. B.
t Note by the ''Times" reporter',—\ cqtfld not see quite tfie whole fif Mr.
Home's iM|rn4-—N. b,
under the table, the rest of the party round the table saw Mr.
Home withdraw from the accordion his right hand, and place
it by the side of his other hand on the table, both his hands
thus being visible together. The accordion thus left with¬
out visible support, continued to play for about ten seconds,
Mr. N. B. watching it under the table all the time. When
Mr. N. B, got up and was told that the latter part of the time
both of Mr. Home’s hands were on the table, he said, “ Whilst
watching the’accordiofi, Mr. Home certainly appeared to me
to move his hand away for a short time, but as I did not
distinctly see him do so, the accordion being too close to the
wood of the table for me to see above it, I said nothing.”
When Mr. N. B. had taken his seat again, Mr. Home, still
holding the accordion in his right hand under the table, put
his legs over the arm of his chair, and rested his feet on Mrs.
J. H.’s chair, so that every one present could see them. He
then put his left hand in the hands of Mrs. C., which were on
the table. In this position an air was sounded from the
accordion, consisting of treble and bass. Attention was spe¬
cially called, during the time this air was being played, to the
fact that Mr. Home's left hand and his two ftet were visible,
all the other hands being also visible on the table.
Whilst the accordion was thus playing, Mr. C. held the
small handbell under the table. Presently, something feeling
like the fingers and thumb of a large hand, touched all around,
it, and after two or three attempts, took it out of Mr. C.’s
hand. The bell was then heard to ring in different parts of
the space beneath the table, and at one time appeared to keep
time with the music of the accordion. During the rest of the
seance the bell was frequently rung and sometimes rubbed
and knocked against the table top. Sometimes it fell to the
ground, and after remaining there silent for a time, it com¬
menced ringing and moving about again.
The gas-burner, which up to this time had brightly lit the
room, was now turned out, and two spirit lamps, with salted
wicks, giving large yellow flames, were put on the gasalier.
The raps now became louder, the bell rang continuously for
about two minutes, gping round and round the circle, touch¬
ing different persons on their knees : it was then placed in
Mrs. J. H.’s hand, who put it on the table. Mrs. C. then took
the bell, and held it under the stable, when it was directly
taken from her. Several persons declared they saw the lumi¬
nous form of a hand rise up between Mr. Home and Mrs. C.
just before the bell was taken. Mr. N. B. said that he could
not distinguish a hand, but that’he certainly fancied he saw
something.
A message was now given out, by raps in the usual way,
“ Open the table.” On inquiry, we were told to take out the
leaf, so as to make the table smaller. This was done.
The table commenced to move about and rise at different
sides. First tilting up at one side and then at the other, it
finally floated up off the floor to a height of about six inches,
swaying about gently as if it were floating on a liquid. It then
gently descended.
All present held their hands about six inches away from the
table, extending them over it. After one or two attempts,
the table rose up quite steadily and horizontally until it was
three inches off the ground. Here it gently swayed about for
a few seconds, and then descended. The lamps gave ample
light to enable us to see that this was absolutely without
contact with the hands,* and unless all present had been
trying to cheat, it could not have been done with the legs or
feet, if it were possible even then.
The table also floated up several inches on other occasions.
Mr. C. and then Mr. N. B. put a foot under one of the castors,
when the table was in the air, and asked for it to be lowered
gently without hurting them. This was done. When the
weight of the table became painful, it rose up again at request
to liberate the feet.
The thin wooden lath, which up to this time had remained
motionless on the table, was seen to rise up at one end, and
then at the other, and floated in the air gently to and fro over
a space of a few inches. These movements of the lath con¬
tinued for several minutes, whilst every one at the table was
watching it. Mr. Home then said aloud, “ If there is an in¬
telligence moving this lath, I ask it to lift it up the number of
times Mr. N. B. wishes.” He then asked Mr. N. B. to hold
his hand a few inches over-the lath, and ask it to rise. Mr.
N. B. did so saying, “ I wish it to rise up to my hand
three times.” Immediately the lath rose and decended again,
slowly and steadily, three times, the last time touching Mr.
N. B.’s hand. During this time Mr. Home's hands, the
* Note by the " Times ” Reporter.—“ I do not fool quite certain ttyt the foqr
legs of the tctblg were off the ground iu this experiment,”—N.B,
72'
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 15, 1873.
nearest to the lath, were laid on the table about eighteen
inches away frorp it. Mr. N. B. expressed pleasure at the
success of the experiment, whereupon the accordion, still in
Mr. Home’s right hand under the table, sounded a triumphant
bar, the bell rang, the table tilted up an inch or two and
shook violently, and loud raps appeared tocomef,,om all parts
of the floor and table. It was as though the “ intelligence
appealed to by Mr. Home considered that it had achieved a
triumph.
Mr. C. then asked that the lath should rise on to the top of
the flowers in the glass troughs. Several attempts were made
to effect this, but the lath could not rise high enough. One of
the party then placed it in another position, the end pointing
towards and being near to Mr. N. B. The lath rose up again,
and both Mr. and Mrs. C. were enabled to slip their fingers
under one end when it was in the air, Mr. N. B. doing the
same at the other end.
The spirit lamps were then put out, and the room was
almost dark. AJittle light came by the side of the window
curtains from the lamps in the street, and some from the fire,
which was very low. There was, however, light enough to
distinguish the positions of each person round the table, and
to see each other’s hands and white objects.
The accordion, which had been left on the floor by Mr.
Home, now commenced to sound, and presently it played a
tune, moving about and touching each person in turn, except
Mr. N. B. The bell then sounded. -Presently, Mr. N. B. said
the accordion was pressing against his knees. He put his
hand down and said that the instrument seemed to turn itself
round till the handle (the end away from the keys) was in his
hand. He then said he felt something pulling and pushing
the other end. Mr. Home then asked that Miss Fox might
have her hands and feet held, which was done by Mr. N. B.
with his disengaged hand and his feet, and that Miss 0, who
was on the other side, of Mr. N. B., should go into a far
corner of the room, which she did. Mr. Home then placed his
two hands on Mr. and Mrs. C.’s hands, and his feet under
their feet. Under these conditions, the accordion sounded
vigorously and harmoniously in Mr. N. B.’s hand for a short
time. Mr. N. B. then said that the bell had been placed in
his hand which was already holding the accordion, and soon
after he said that what felt like a flower was placed in his
fingers. Owing to his hand being already occupied by the
accordion and the bell, he dropped the flower, and immediately
afterwards felt a large and soft thumb and finger thrust it
gently and firmly between his fingers, which this time suc¬
ceeded in holding it. There was now another volley of raps
of a jubilant sound ; a match was struck, and drawing his
hands from under the table, Mr. N. B. showed those present
the accordion, the bell, and a sprig of yew. After the seance,
Mr. N. B. examined Mr. Home’s hands, and declared that the
thumb and finger which pressed the sprig of yew (which it
turned out to be when the light was struck) into his fingers,
appeared to him to be much larger and softer than the thumb
and finger of Mr. Home’s hand.
Raps interpreted in the usual waj7, now spelt out “ We can
do no more.” Loud raps, were then heard, and gradually
faded away. Before they went, Mr. 0. asked if he might
take Miss Fox to the door, and holding her hands, hear the
raps on it. Permission being given, they went to the door
together, when very loud thumps were immediately heard,
apparently coming from the panel at Miss Fox’s side, and on
a level with her head. Mr. C. had hold of both her-hands,
pressing one of them against the door, and had placed his
foot in front, of her, so that she was kept standing about a
foot from "the door. He asked for raps to come from the leaf
of the table behind him. This also was apparently done, and
then raps came from the floor near where they were standing.
Whilst Mr. C. and Miss Fox were standing by the door,
the dining table again floated up in the air,* Mr. C. and Miss
Fox’s chairs being vacant. It will be seen from the diagram
that this would have been impossible to have been done by
Mr. Home, even had he not been held hands and feet by Mrs.
C., unless Mr. N. B. also had assisted.
During the evening some sheets of the marked blank paper,
and a pencil were put under the table by Mr. N. B. On
lighting the gas, on the cessation of the phenomena, at half¬
past, eleven, Miss C. picked the paper off the floor, when the
following words were found to have been written on it:—
“ Be of good cheer; all is well.—B. Franklin.”
* Note by the ''Times" reporter:—“I think, and said at the time, that the
leg at the right of Mr. C.’s chair did not appear to me to leave the ground.
Still, as this was on Mr. Home’s side, and as Miss Fox was away, it made
the “levitation” of the other three legs perhaps the more remarkable.”—
N, B.
After the seanee Mr. N. B. thoroughly examined Mr.
Home’s boots, taking them off for the purpose. He also felt
Mr. Home’s clothes, but detected no “ concealed machinery.”*
The discussion which followed the first article in the
Times, opened on Dec. 27th, 1872, with a letter from •
Mr. Henry,Diroks, F.C.S. It is abhsive, reveals that
Mr. Dircks has no practical knowledge of the subject,
says that “ secrecy and mercenariness ” characterise
Spiritualism, and that “ no really scientific man” be¬
lieves in it. With Spiritualists his assertions had no
weighty because many of them' were not founded on
faetj^neither had they any weight in the scientific
world, of which Mr. Dircks is far from being one of the
recognised representatives. He is the real inventor of the
Polytechnic ghost, and he has written a book on per¬
petual motion, compiled of facts drawn from the Patent
Offic'e records and other sources.
Mr. II ain Friswell contributed a letter to the Times
of Dec. 27th, certifying the reality of certain spiritual
phenomena. The Times of Dec. 28th, has one from Mr.
Ford, secretary to the Dialectical Society, saying that
the society had nothing to do with the report published
by its committee appointed to investigate Spiritualism.
He speaks highly of the qualifications of the members
of the committee to do their work. A letter by “ A
Spiritualist” (a lady), published on Dec. 31st, and
another by Mr. D. D. Home, consist of replies to the
assertions of Mr. Dircks. The same paper also con¬
tains a letter of an advertising character from Mr.
C. A. Hooper, of the Crystal Palace, about the auto¬
maton chess-player there, which it is asserted that
some credulous Spiritualists have announced to be
worked by spirits.. The automaton chess-player is an
old trick, described in Brewster’s Natural Magic, and
other books of a like nature.
The Times of January 1st contains a letter by Mr.
Serjeant Cox, giving the public some good facts about
the movement of solid objects without contact with
anybody. Towards the close of his letter he makes the
following statement:—
MR. SERJEANT COX ON SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
“I have witnessed most of the phenomena on which is
based the theory that they are produced by spirits of the dead,
who are supposed to be surrounding us. Who would not be
happy, indeed, if this fact could be proved beyond a doubt ?
But I am bound to say that the result of this protracted and
patient examination so far has been not merely not to confirm
that theory, but to negative it. Not only can I discover no
evidence that the spirits of the dead are associated with these
phenomena, but all the evidence I have been enabled to collect
goes to disprove that conclusion. It may well be that the
extended scientific investigation which I hope will now be
given to it may assign to this new force some other source or
seat than in the nervous structure, but I have no doubt that it
* Note by the “ Times ” reporter:—“ Mr. N. B. wishes to add that all through
the evening both Mr. Home and Miss Fox appeared most anxious that he
should apply every possible test to, and make every possible investigation
of, the phenomena whilst they were occurring; that there were certain
conditions—such as the number of people at the table, the necessity of
keeping quiet whilst the accsrdion was being moved about under the table,
and at other critical times, the faint light and subsequent almost total
darkness, the impossibility of one person keeping watch above and below
the table at the same time, the impossibility of knowing what amount of
pressure was put upon the table by the hand laid in all appearance very
lightly upon it—which made it impossible for such severe and direct tests
to be applied as would at once determine the phenomena, but th at he applied
every test, and made every investigation which occurred to him, or were sug¬
gested by others, and were compatible with the required conditions, and that
he failed in any single instance to detect the least semblance of imposture or
legerdemain. The causes of the phenomena and the modes of their produc¬
tion he cannot explain; he is only certain that they occurred, and that one
evening’s observation has not been sufficient for him to discover how they
occurred. However they may be produced, he at present regards these
phenomena as arising from purely physical causes, and conceives that he is
as yet bound so to regard them, not because they must needs be, or be-
- cause he can prove them to be purely physical, but because, till it is clearly
proved that they are something else, his judgment must follow the forctfof
habit and the analogy of nature. As yet, certainly the idea of a‘new
force,’ and most certainly the idea of * spirits’ is repugnant to him.”—N. B
THE SPIRITUALIST.
73
Jan. 15, 1873.
will be found somewhere in the human organisation, for this
alone will account for that which is obviously the essential
condition of all the phenomena—the presence of one or more
persons possessing a specially constituted nervous structure.”
In haunted houses, although the persons possessing
“ a specially constituted nervous structure” may be
changed, the phenomena witnessed in those houses do
not also essentially change, and the disturbances often
go on without the presence of a medium at all. Solid
objects are often carried many miles by what we call
“spirits” and Serjeant Cox calls “psychic force.”
Moreover, occasionally, though not very often, spirit or
psychic force messages contain definite information not
previously known to the medium or any member of the
circle, but which afterwards proves 4;o be true. There
are plenty of well-authenticated illustrations of these
points in the back numbers of The Spiritualist.
The Times of Jan. 2nd contains another letter by
Mr. Dircks ; it consists simply of abuse, and requires
no reply. There is also a letter signed “ Observer,”
describing one of Mr. Morse’s trance lectures. The
Times of January 3rd contains a letter by “ F. Gr. S.,”-
giving some interesting facts culled from the report of
the Dialectical Committee.
On the 4th of January the following letter by Mr. A.
R. Wallace, President of the Entomological Society,
was published in the Times :—
MR. A. R. WALLACE ON SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
To the Editor of the “ Times.”
Sir,—Having been named by several of your correspondents
as one of the scientific men who believe in Spiritualism, you
will perhaps allow me to state briefly what amount of evidence
has forced the belief upon me. I began the investigation
about eight years ago, and I esteem it a fortunate thing that
at that time the more marvellous phenomena were far less
common, and less accessible than they are now, because I was
led to experiment largely at mjrown house, and among friends
whom I could trust, and was able to establish to my own
satisfaction, by means of a great variety of tests, the occur¬
rence of sounds and movements not traceable to any known
or conceivable physical cause. Having thus becoihe
thoroughly familiar with these undoubtedly genuine pheno¬
mena, 1 was able to compare them with the more powerful
manifestations of several public mediums, and to recognise
an identity of cause in both by means of a number of minute
but highly characteristic resemblances. I was also able, by
patient observation, to obtain tests of the reality of some of
the more curious phenomena which appeared at the time, and
still appear to me to be conclusive. To go into details as to
those experiences would require a volume, but I may, perhaps,
be permitted briefly to describe one, from notes kept at the
time, because it serves as an example of the complete security
against deception which often occurs to the- patient observer
without seeking for it.
A lady who had seen nothing of the phenomena asked me
and my sister to accompany her to a well-known public
medium. We went, and had a sitting alone in the bright
light of a summer’s day. After a number of the usual raps
and movements, our lady friend asked if the name of the de¬
ceased person she was desirous of communicating with could
be spelt out. On receiving an answer in the affirmative, the
lady pointed successively to the letters of a printed alphabet,
while I wrote down those at which three affirmative raps oc¬
curred. Neither I nor my sister knew the name the lady
wished for, nor even the names of any of her deceased rela¬
tives ; her own name had not been mentioned, and she had
never been near the medium before. The following is exactly
what happened, except that I alter the surname, which was
a very unusual one, having no authority to publish it. The
letters I wrote down were of the following kind:—
yrnehnospmoht. After the first three—y r n—had
been taken down, my friend said, ll This is nonsense ; we had
better begin again.” Just then her pencil was at e, and raps
came, when a thought struck me (having read of, but never
witnessed a similar occurrence), and I said, “Please go on ; I
think I see what is meant.” When the spelling was finished
I handed the paper to her, but she could see no meaning in it
till X divided it at the first h, and asked her to read each por¬
tion backwards, when to her intense astonishment the name
“ Henry Thompson ” came out, that of a deceased son of
whom she had wished to hear, correct in every letter. Just
about that time I had been hearing ad nauseam of the super¬
human acuteness of mediums who detect the letters of the
name the deluded visitors expect, notwithstanding all their
care to pass the pencil over the letters with perfect regularity.
This experience, however (for the substantial accuracy of which
as above narrated I vouch), was and is, to my mind, a complete
disproof of every explanation yet given of the means by which
the names of deceased persons are rapped out. Of course, I
do not expect any sceptic, whether scientific or unscientific, to
accept such facts, of which I could give many, on my testi¬
mony, but neither must they expect me, nor the thousands of
intelligent men to whom equally conclusive tests have oc¬
curred, to accept their short and easy methods of explaining
them.
If I am not occupying too much of your valuable space, I
should like to make a few remarks on the misconceptions of
many scientific men as to the nature of this inquiry, taking
the letters of your correspondent Mr. Ducks as an example. In the
first place he seems to think that it is an argument against the
facts being genuine thatthey cannot all be produced and exhi¬
bited at will ; and another argument against them, that they
cannot be explained by any known laws. But neither can
catalepsy, the fall of meteoric stones, nor hydrophobia be
produced at will; yet these are all facts, and none the less so
that the first is sometimes imitated, the second was once
denied, and the symptoms of the third are often greatly ex¬
aggerated, while none of them are yet brought under the do¬
main of strict science ; yet no one would make this an argu¬
ment for refusing to investigate these subjects. Again, I
should not have expected a scientific man to state, as a reason
for not examining it, that Spiritualism “is opposed to every
known natural law, especially the law of gravity,” and that it
“sets chemistry, human physiology, and mechanics at open
defiance ; ” when the facts simply are that the phenomena, if
true, depend upon a cause or causes which can overcome or
counteract the action of these several forces, just as some of
these forces often counteract or overcome others ; and this
should surely be a strong inducement to a man of science to
investigate the subject.
While not laying any claim myself to the title of “ a really
scientific man,” there are 'some who deserve that epithet wffio
have not yet been mentioned by your correspondents as at the
same time Spiritualists. Such I consider the late Dr. Robert
Chambers, as well as Dr. Elliotson, Professor William Gregory,
of Edinburgh ; and Professor Hare, of Philadelphia—all, un¬
fortunately, deceased ; while Dr. Gully, of Malvern, as a
scientific physician, and Judge Edmonds, one of the best
American lawyers, have had the most ample means of investi¬
gation ; yet all these not only were convinced of the reality of
the most marvellous facts, but also accepted the theory of
modern Spiritualism as the only one which would embrace and
account for the facts. I am also acquainted with a living
physiologist of high rank as an original investigator, who is an
equally firm believer.
In conclusion, I may say that, although I have heard a great
many accusa'ions of imposture, I have never detected it my¬
self ; and, although a large proportion of the more extraordi¬
nary phenomena are such, that, if impostures, they could only
be performed by means of ingenious apparatus or machinery,
none has ever been discovered. I consider it no exaggeration
to say, that the main facts are now as well established and as
easily verifiable as any of the more exceptional phenomem of
nature which are not yet reduced to law. They have a most
important bearing on the interpretation of history, which is
full of narratives of similar facts, and on the nature of life and
intellect, on which physical science/ throws a very feeble and
uncertain light; and it is my firm and deliberate belief that
every branch of philosophy must suffer till they are honestly
and seriously investigated, and dealt with as constituting an
essential portion of the phenomena of human nature.—I am,
sir, yours obediently, Alfred R. Wallace.
The same paper contains one of the best answers to
Mr. Dircks, written by “ An Eight Years’ Spiritualist.”
The Times of Jan. 6th contains a letter by Mr. John
Algernon Clarke, about the performances of Mr. Maske-
lyne at the Crystal Palace. He says :—
MR. MASKELYNE’S-PERFORMANCES.
A large wooden box, inclosed in a canvas cover and corded,
was placed upon a platform in which there was no trap; a
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
light screen was set up around the box and the conjuror, and
the man actually transferred himself into the box, leaving it
covered with the wrapper, and tightly bound in all directions
by the knotted cord, as it was before. The speaker said that
he, with three other persons from the audience, untied the
cord, removed the canvas cover, opened the box lid, and
found Maskelyne inside. “ I do not know how the feat was
done,” he added, “but it beats the spirits into fits.” ... I
may suggest to anybody’s common sense what is the explana¬
tion of the wonderful box-trick. A little reflection will show
that if the conjuror had first to loosen a portion of the cord,
next to open the canvas cover’, and then to open the box, in
order to get inside, he must of necessity have refastened those
parts in the reverse order of succession when shutting himself
up. Thus, when once inside the box he first tied the cord,
next secured the strings of the canvas wrapper, and then
closed the box. Of course the box lid was shut, or neither the
cord nor the wrapper would have tightly fitted in their proper
form ; but a portion of the box made to open inwards was
that finally shut. Any one who knows how conjurors’ boxes
are constructed to deceive inspection by means of veneers
which look like real dove-tail joints, by screw heads without
screws, and nail heads without nails, belonging to them, will
perceive how an end or side, or part of an end or side, could
be moveable without being discovered to be so.
The Times of the same date contains the following
very sensible letter:—
DR. CAMERON ON SPIRITUALISM.
To the Editor of the Times.
Sir, —I am a man accustomed to close and careful examina¬
tion of intricate matters. I studied Spiritualism for about
two years with great care, and, I believe, with perfect coolness
and impartiality of mind. I saw it in almost all its phases.
I saw its manifestations in private and in public, in the light
and in the dark ; and, though there is much that is childish,
though many of the believers are most credulous and would
accept almost anything coming in the name of the “ Dear
Spirits,” and though in many of the dark seances there was
abundant room for trick, if trick were necessary, I was yet
compelled to believe that there was a power at work unknown
to science, and which was not under the control of the so-
called medium.
I do not, for what seem to me good reasons, believe that the
spirits of our departed fellow-creatures are the agents in all
this, but I have no explanation of my own to offer. Faraday’s
unconscious muscular action theory was quite unworthy of
such a mind as his. Dr. Carpenter’s unconscious cerebration
may explain a few phenomena, as may also Serjeant Cox’s
psychic force, but there is much, very much, in Spiritualism
that none of these explanations touch at all; and, as the new
faith has now spread so widely, and has done so much mis¬
chief to many, the time has, I agree with your reporter in
thinking, fully come when even our great scientists may, with¬
out loss of dignity, consent to become as little children, that
they may learn something of this strange thing before they
pronounce upon it; for many think with me that men who
have fairly won great names by scientific discovery rather
detract from than add to their reputation by speaking dog¬
matically concerning that of which they are practically in utter
ignorance. Fenton Cameron, M.D.
Derby, Jan. 3.
The foregoing letter closed the discussion, and the
editor of the Times summed up his opinions in the
following leading article:—
THE EDITOR OE THE “TIMES ” ON SPIRITUALISM.
Many sensible readers, we fear, will think we owe them
some apology for openingour columns to a controversy on such
a subject as Spiritualism,'and thus treating as an open or
debatable question what should rather be dismissed at once as
either an imposture or a delusion. But even an imposture
may call for unmasking, and popular delusions, however
absurd, are often too important to be neglected by the wiser
portion of mankind. It is, we suppose, on these grounds we
are told that “men of science,”instead of treating Spiritualism
with derision or contempt, ought to study its phenomena with
impartial attention, and prepare themselves either to expose
deceit or to acknowledge facts. On the other side, however,
it is reasonably argued that before scientific men can be
expected to ipyestigate alleged phenomena, it must be shown
Jan. 15, 1873.
that such phenomena are real enough and extraordinary
enough to deserve inquiry. Thus, in fact, has arisen the
question of “Spiritualism v. Science,” under which heading
we have allowed correspondents of all shades of belief, or
disbelief, to relate their experience or state their views. Is
there really any case for scientific investigation in this matter ?
Would it have been allowable, for instance, to ask Professor
Faraday to come and verify for himself the manifestations of
Spiritualism, or would it have been an insult to invite him to
any such absurdity ? Is there, in reality, anything, as law¬
yers would say, to go to a jury with ? Well, on the one hand,
we have abundance of alleged experiences which can hardly
be called evidence, and a few depositions of a more notable
and impressive character. On the other hand, we have many
accounts of convicted impostors, and many authentic reports
of precisely such disappointments or discoveries as we should
be led to expect.
What, however, is Spiritualism? We ask that important
question with little hope of getting a conclusive answer, for
our readers will have seen during the last few days how very
various are the impressions of Spiritualists themselves.
Originally, no doubt, as the name itself implies, Spiritualism
meant a certain dealing, through some mysterious agencies,
with the spirits of the dead, which were summoned to com¬
municate with the living. This is nothing but the old theory
of ghosts and apparitions reduced to a kind of practice, by
which Spirits' instead of appearing at their own discretion,
are raised at will by the call of others. Probably the believers
in Spiritualism as thus defined do not include many scientific
men ; but other views of the matter have been placed before
us. One correspondent is content to observe that he has wit¬
nessed phenomena which could not be attributed to any
natural causes. Another expresses his conviction that certain
phenomena are really due to the operation of a force hitherto
unsuspected, but entering into the agencies of nature like
any other force. As this is, perhaps, the least incredible of
all the hypotheses, we may as well consider it first, especially
as the reader of Lord Lytton’s novels will recognise in it a
familiar and almost attractive assumption. It is said, then,
that the force of the human will, which can put the fingers of
the hand in motion at pleasure, can occasionally and under
certain circumstances be exerted beyond the limits of the
body, and with such material effect as to move inanimate ob¬
jects to an extent, at any rate, far exceeding the mechanical
force employed. A number of persons, being duly gifted, and
in a proper state of “cerebration,” might thus, we are told, put
in motion a heavy dining-table and drive it over a consider¬
able space. N'ow, wn must avow that, for our own part, we do
not believe the united “wills” of all the nine hundred
millions of the earth’s population could ever be made to move
a single wine-glass ; but the possibility of such a force may
be imagined with less outrage to reason than is involved jn
certain other Spiritualist theories, and can easily be brought
to proof.
Of the other alleged phenomena of Spiritualism it is difficult
to speak with even this amount of gravity. They are, for the
most part, exhibited under conditions either plainly sugges¬
tive of imposture or clearly consistent with delusion. Stipula¬
tions for a dark room, concerted arrangements of furniture,
and a company predisposed by credulity to the reception of
impressions are not terms likely to commend themselves 'to
the students of physical science. The phenomena themselves,
too, are mostly incompatible with any serious conception of
spiritual revelations, and, at the same time, exactly adapted
to the purposes of human operators. Raps given under the
table, chairs tossed about the room, strange noises, and
mysterious movements have been the stock features of all such
stories from the days of the Cock-lane Ghost to the present
time. Such tricks are easily played, and the manifestations
are easily magnified by a credulous or imaginative mind.
When we hear from witnesses neither imaginative nor credu¬
lous that they have really heard or seen what they could not
tell how to explain, we may believe them without the least
belief in the truth or reality of Spiritualism. Exactly the
same things have been said of Indian jugglers or Egyptian
magicians. When, again, we are told that Spiritualism, having
existed for forty years, must have a basis of truth,we can only
reply that magic, without the least basis of truth, existed, and
was fully believed in, for more than ten times that period.
Its theory was perfectly simple, being founded on the belief,
universally prevailing, that the elements were peopled
with certain spirits or superhuman natures which could, by
the application of certain laws, be made to perform the bid*
der’s wil], Magical art consisted in the mastery of these
Jan. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
laws, and the command consequently attained over the powers
of the air, the earth, or the sea. The observance of certain
forms, the burning of certain essences, and the utterance of
certain words called the spirit or the “ genii ’’ to the presence
of the performer, and it is curious to ’•emark how elaborately
the study must have been pursued. be magician of Oriental
tales before exercising his art invarial y consults his “ books,”
and sometimes spends days in the in 'estigation. We laugh
at such pretensions now, but they were neither ridiculous nor
incredible in times when the existence of the spirits concerned
was never called in question. It was everywhere believed
that natures endowed with more than human faculties were
among the beings of the world, and from that conviction to
the conception of an art by which they might be controlled
the passage was easy. Bjit this does not touch the essence of
Spiritualistic pretensions. We are told either that spirits
from the unseen world may be called to communicate with
living men and women, or that a force hitherto unknown may
be exerted with material effect upon inanimate bodies ; and
then we are asked why men of science will not apply them¬
selves to the investigation of such claims. In the controversy
which has been raised in our columns due allowance has,
perhaps, not been made for the conditions of the problem ;
but a sufficient answer to the demand for a scientific inquiry
is that the proposa's must come in a less ambiguous or objec¬
tionable shape. The “medium” must be content with any
apartment offered for the purpose, with an unbelieving
audience, ahd with conditions generally devised to prevent
even the possibility of deception or misapprehension. The
employer of “Psychic Force” must accept similar terms,
which, indeed, in his case, as there can be no “ susceptibili¬
ties’’involved, should be restdily welcomed. We have been
warned not to apply the measures of an exact or advanced
science to discoveries possibly just dawning upon mankind,
but that advice would befit only an ulterior stage of the in¬
quiry. We cannot be too sceptical, too scrutinizing, or too
precise in ascertaining facts, though it may be otherwise when
we come to explanations. Let us first be positively assured
that a Spirit has been evoked, or that a dining-table has been
moved by a mere effort of volition on the part of an operator.
When the facts have been once established Science may be
fairly called upon to consider their import.'
There is a mild tone about the foregoing article.
One writer spoke of the cost of investigation; most
inquirers pay nothing, but get the first phenomena in
their own homes, with none but members of their own
families present. As to professional physical mediums,
there are only five or six in the whole of this nation.
A good spectroscope costs more than <£10, but we do
not know that we have ever met a single person who
in the course of his first six months’ investigation of
Spiritualism has spent as much as £10. Yet, possibly,
it may be admitted that questions relating to the
double sodium line D, or to the green line in the atmo¬
sphere of the sun, are of less importance to the inquirer
than where he himself is going to after passing the
portals of the grave.
Not a little surprise has been expressed that Mr.
Yarley took no part in the discussion, since he was the
first professional man of high reputation who dared to
come forward and testify, not only that the phenomena
w:ere true, but that they originated with disembodied
spirits. A few days ago he read the following to us,
and we asked his permission to print it. The letter,
not having been originally intended for publication, is
written in rather an off-handed manner :—
MR. C. F. VATtLEY, F.B..S., OX THE a TIMES” DISCUSSIOX.
My dear , Thanks for yours of the 4th inst. I am not
inclined to write to the Times at present.
It is a well-known fact that I have for many years, both
voluntarily and, sometimes, involuntarily studied the spiritual
phenomena, and further, I have always been willing to help
earnest enquirers, when the latter have desired information.
I do not see that any letter of mine now would do any real
good. My letter written to Dr. Tyndall, when he requested
information upon the subject, has been published in the
Spiritual Magazine, and other papers,
When the Dialectical Society ^desired information I gave it,
and submitted to a cross-examination ; but, how did the out¬
side public receive my statements, or those of Lord Lindsay
and the Earl of Dunraven ? The public simply denounced us
as either mad, wilful misrepresenters of the truth, or as people,
having dealings with the devil.
When the public is ready and willing to listen to truth,
which, in some sense, runs counter to the commonly accepted
faith, I will not object to use my pen—till then, I care not what
the public think upon the subject.
I have received little else than abuse from the daily press
for the four or five articles or notes I have already written
upon Spiritualism, and have had my reputation as a scientific
man assailed in consequence.
You know how grossly Dr. Carpenter went out of his way
to libel me in his egotistical article in the Quarterly Review,
and he is a fair specimen of the public in narrow-mind¬
edness.
When the public is in earnest and anxious to know the truth
of the matter, the public must come to me. I will not go to
the public.
But there are many men who have seen more than I have,
and who know more about these subtle phenomena than I do,
and who. thinking they have a mission to force truth upon the
public, are better fitted than I am for that purpose. I have
no such mission.
If the Times be anxious upon the subject, let the Times in¬
vite its own editors, and those of all the other leading
journals, to form a committee of investigation, and let them
publish an unvarnished account of the tests applied, of what
they discover, and give openly the conclusions to which they
are led. They might invite some scientific men of known
ability, and who are sceptics, to join them. This investigation
should be carried on by efficient representatives of all the
leading journals, so that they shall have no fear of publishing
in full the conclusions to which they come.
In answer to your second question, I have established for
myself the following facts :—
First—A certain class of people—“ mediums ” especially—
give off a power which Sergeant Cox and Mr. Crookes have
named psychic force.
Second—That that force is controlled by, or used by, the
spirits of others to produce the so-called “ Spiritual phe¬
nomena,” and very often by the spirits of those who have left
this life.
Third—That those spirits are frequently able to make known
their identity, and thus prove that they have neither lost their
individuality nor their personal affections by the “ death ’’ of
the body.
Fourth—That spirits can often appear or communicate
almost simultaneously in two places many miles distant from
one another.
Fifth—That they are often able to cure people of nervous
derangements and other maladiess
These things have been demonstrated to me in a manner
beyond all question.
Sixth—I have also on several occasions had coming events
correctly foretold and described. This latter power is the only
one which perplexes me ; for it is difficult to understand how
a finite intelligence, such as they and we seem to possess, can
see into the future in the way they sometimes do.
Investigators must comply with the conditions laid down
by the spirits or “ mediums,” or they will get but poor re¬
sults. It should be borne in mind, at the same time, that,
while complying with the conditions specified, it is not at all
necessary to abstain from making crucial tests.
It would be as absurd for a person to hunt for Biela’s comet
in the day, and refuse the astronomer’s advice to observe in
the dark before the faint light of the comet is obscured by the
dazzling glare of the sun.
Imagine a Faraday refusing to believe in the existence of a
mixture of the hydrogen and chlorine gases because they can¬
not exist uncombined when exposed to daylight; for, as is
well known, unless the actinic rays be excluded, these gases
explode, forming hydroch'oric acid.
In dealing with inanimate matter, when once the laws are
discovered, the same results can be reproduced timh after
time ; but, when you have to request the attendance of other
intelligences—which latter are as self-willed as ourselves—
we cannot beforehand determine the results of the experiment
or seanee. No person can work a telegraph cable unless the
intelligences (the clerks) at each end are working in harmony,
and are at their posts. We Iwe some control oyer clerks,
but none over spirits,
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1873.
Yet telegraphs are useful, although dependent upon two
intelligences, and other delicate conditions.
In like manner—by complying with the necessary condi¬
tions—we can often receive and transmit messages between
persons in this and others in the next stage of existence,
through the medium of communication, when the intelligences
upon each side are in harmony. The public has a very erroneous
impression that we can compel the presence at our seances of
departed spirits. Such is not the case—it is nothing but their
kindness or affinity that brings them to us.
It is my belief that all religions have sprung from communi¬
cations received from departed souls by the means so familiar
to Spiritualists, and consequently all religions are the same in
spirit, when stripped of their external garments, so as to re¬
veal the truth that lies hidden underneath.
When the public and their favourite journals really want to
know the truth, and really desire to know something intelligi¬
ble about the next phase of man’s existence, they will make
efforts to discover it, and will most assuredly find it.
It is my opinion that the public, at present, care very
little about their future existence, or really spiritual matters,
and I, consequently, care as little for the public. It almost
seems that the majority of the public believe in but one god—
“Wealth”—and that £ s. d. is his prophet.—I am, my dear
Mr. , Yery truly yours, (Signed)
Gth January, 1873. ' Cromwell F. Varley.
In conclusion, there is no doubt that the Times has
done much good by lessening the amount of popular
prejudice against Spiritualism. Already the tide is
beginning to turn against the scientific world for its
neglect of the subject, and this circumstance comes out
very strongly in the discussion just closed. The opinions
of the learned societies for or against Spiritualism have
no influence whatever on the movement, because the
facts are so important that few persons can accept them
on authority; nearly everybody demands personal ex¬
perience. Patient intelligent inquirers take up all the
time of the best mediums, so there is no necessity to
attempt to force into the ranks of Spiritualism those
who have decided without investigating, and who, out
of the depths of their own consciousness, draw materials
for newspaper abuse. The mental conditions influenc¬
ing the phenomena tend to shut out superficial, authori¬
tative, and dogmatic persons, and it is a very good
thing for the character of the young Spiritual move¬
ment, that moral elements such as these have not the
power to enter. Spiritualism is more a mental than a
physical science.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
On Juesday, January 7th, at the ordinary fortnightly meet¬
ing of the Anthropological Institute, Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P., F.R.S., presided. As usual, at the first meeting after
Christmas, there was a very thin attendance.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., read a paper by the late Mr.
J. W. Jackson, on, “ The Atlantean Race of Western Europe,”
in the course of which it was argued that the original birth¬
place of people of the Aryan type was Europe and not Asia.
Dr. Campbell remarked that the natives of the Western
Highlands of Scotland bear no resemblance to the Aryans of
India or Burmah.
Sir John Lubbock expressed his regret at the great loss the
Anthropological Institute had sustained in the death of Mr.
■Jackson.
Mr. Brabrook next read a paper by Dr. John Sho.rtt, on
“The Kojahs of Southern India it gave much information
about eunuchs. He also read a paper by M. H. Geber, and
Capt. R. F. Burton, on “ The Primordial Inhabitants of
Brazil.”
Mr. Hamilton said he had lived in Brazil, and it was a very
bad place for Englishmen to emigrate to.
The papers gave,rise to no discussion, so that the business
of the meeting was over much before the usual time. Some
of the members present, therefore, said they should like to
hoar a few words from Mr. Hamilton about his expedition to
Moab.
Mr. Charles Hamilton said that he was going to Moab to
search for relics of anthropological interest, and that his own
little means had been very materially increased by the Rev.
Dunbar Heath, to whom, therefore, the thanks of the institute
were altogether due for showing so much confidence in an
ignoramus like himself. Travellers started with great expec¬
tations, which, in his experience, were seldom realised ; so
he would say nothing of what he hoped to do. Possibly he
might have difficulties in passing through the Arab tribes.
The Rev. Dunbar Heath had said that if he got into any rows,
he would do his best to get him out, which was the best thing
under the circumstances that one fellow could do for another.
(Laughter.)
The proceedings then closed.
In our last Mr. Nelson Holmes’s address was printed in
error as 13, Old Quebec-street, W.; it should have been 16, Old
Quebec-street. The seances through the mediumship of Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes are very interesting, and they sit twice
a week for spirit faces.
In consequence of lack of technical knowledge the Spiri¬
tual Mayazine is still i writing up ” as genuine spirit pictures
all the photographs of a man who has turned out some in
which the negatives have been elaborately worked upon by
hand with a cutting instrument, and others which have been
manufactured by double exposure.
Several private mediums and scientific men connected
with Spiritualism are flooded with letters from strangers,
asking for seances, but cannot be expected to enter into the
heavy correspondence thus forced upon them. One gentle¬
man thus pressed says :—“Strangers have no more business
to write to me without a proper introduction than they have
to stop me in the street and question me.” Inquirers can
form circles in their own homes, or see very good manifesta¬
tions through public mediums. All the good mediums in
London are overworked, and one way to raise up mediums in
any particular district is to print in the local newspapers in¬
structions how to form spirit circles.
Death-warning oe Haroun-al-Raschid.— A great
warrior, a patron of learning in general, a moderate and wise
lawgiver, it is not wonderful that amongst his people his name
should be even yet revered, and the title bestowed on him
should be that of “The Just.” Haroun-al-Raschid died in
809 a.d. He may be said to have fallen a victim to one of the
ignorant superstitions of the age. One night, when on the eve
of a military excursion to Khorassan, a Persian province then
in a state of revolt, Haroun dreamed that he saw a naked
hand and arm raised in the air above his head, the hand hold¬
ing a lump of red earth, and that he heard, at the same time,
an unearthly voice exclaim, ‘‘ Behold the earth that shall serve
as the last resting-place of Haroun-al-Raschid.” It seemed to
him that he gathered courage enough to ask from what terri¬
tory that earth had been taken, and the same awful voice re¬
plied, “ From the land of Thous.” Haroun awoke, filled with
superstitious horror ; and from that moment an overpowering
melancholy stole over him, under which his health and spirits
sank. His physician, a Christian by religion, strove to cheer
him. He spoke to him of the folly of yielding to a mere vision
of sleep, and exhorted him to continue his expedition. Haroun
made an effort to ralljq and continued the journey until
they arrived at a small town near Khorassan, where a
slight illness seized him, and he determined to rest for a night.
While preparations were being made for his reception in the
town, he carelessly inquired its name. With blanched cheek
and quickening pulse he heard that it was the town of Thous !
After a few moments, however, he recovered his wonted com¬
posure, and, turning to his physician, calmly remarked that it
was the place he had heard of in his dream. Then, betraying
no outward emotion, he ordered his attendant to go and bring
him a handful of earth from outside the town. The man
obeyed, and presently returned with the earth. His arm was
bare, and, fearing to soil the monarch’s robes, he raised his
hand and arm high over Haroun’s head. The caliph gave a
cry of surprise. “Behold !” he exclaimed, “the very hand
and arm I saw in my dream. This, then, is the spot destined
for my grave ! ” Three days after this singular incident he
expired, and was entombed on the spot, which a supernatural
visitation, as he probably erroneously believed, had marked
out to receive his mortal remains. Thus died Haroun-al-
Raschid—with all his faults,the greatest of Eastern sovereigns
—a man the most remarkable of any whom the history of his
time has commemorated. His name is familiar to all; yet his
real character and history are but little known, save from the
doubtful records of the “Arabian Nights.”—Leisure Hour,
No. 350,
Jan. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
aroragpontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
MEN AND WOMEN.
Sir,—I should like to make a brief protest against Mr.
White’s sweeping assertions in regard to women and their
intellectual capacities.
It is easier always to make assertions than to refute them,
and it would take a long time to search for the necessary
evidence ; but is it true to say—“ She has had ample practice
in literature,'but the critic vainly explores her volumes for
original thought.” Such a critic as Mr. W. White might fail
to discover it, but has he read Mrs. Farnham’s work, Woman
and her Era ? If not, I would recommend him to do so, as I
think he might there meet with some very startling and
original thoughts on this question. It is true that she admires
man for his intellect rather than for his external beauty of
form or face, and therein manifests a superiority over him ;
for when does man seek for intellect in woman ? rather he
seems to fear a rival, and usually chooses for his wife the
prettiest, the youngest, and the silliest girl of his acquaint¬
ance. When men require intellectual qualities in women, the
race may begin to improve fast; for men of genius are usually
the sons of clever women rather than of clever men.
December 26th, 1872. E. D.
Sir,—The subject of woman having so long claimed a share
of public attention, I think you are right in inviting a discus¬
sion thereon in your paper. Allow me to venture a few
remarks.
Whatever may be our opinions as to the ultimate position
of woman and her relations to man, it is evident that these
have undergone a marked, but gradual change, since the
beginnings of civilisation. Amongst savages, women are re¬
garded as inferior animals, and are frequently degraded into
-beasts of burden. This is the law of the strongest. When
the sense of justice begins to overcome the sense of selfish¬
ness, woman claims and receives protection as the weaker sex,
but remains in subordination to man on account of her inferior
powers. Once released from more laborious tasks, her spi¬
ritual, or inner, nature begins to develope. and she acquires an
influence, unseen, incomprehensible, but undeniable, extensive,
and elevating. Lastly, she finds herself in the way which
leads to the domains of intellect; but the gate is barred, and
none but men are seen to go in and out. After long, per¬
sistent knocking, it is reluctantly opened to her also, and fche
is allowed to walk in certain paths levelled and marked out
for her by the lords of the domain. Here it may be well for
her to wander contentedly for the present, though there are
signs of the pioneering, adventurous spirit beginning to show
themselves among the sex. It seems pretty certain, however,
that the physical incapacity of woman will always be a
hindrance to her becoming a Humboldt or a Livingstone, and
will make her mental achievements different in kind, if not
inferior in degree, to those of a Bacon, a Shakespeare, or a
Goethe.
Now, I would ask whether, with this undoubted develop¬
ment, women have, on the whole, improved or degenerated ?
And, if the former, why some men are so ungenerous as to
oppose any extension of their privileges, and to cast a slur on
the names of those who have grasped every opportunity of
self-improvement ? Because they are afraid of women losing
their gentler attributes in a higher intellectual development.
But what are the facts ? To take my own experience, which
I suppose is an average one, the clever women of my acquaint¬
ance (to use an epithet which has become almost a term of
reproach) love their husbands and children not less well, but
more wisely, and perform every duty, however humble, do¬
mestic as well as social, just so much better than the ill-edu¬
cated ones, in proportion as their minds are better regulated
and have been trained to habits of thoroughness, accuracy,
and elegance, by a well-directed education. And if in any of
the relations of life they should fail in tenderness, charity,
sympathy, or any other womanly virtue, I still maintain that
it is not from too much, but too little education; one most
important part, the training of the character, has been for¬
gotten. This is a fatal mistake, but do not let men, there¬
fore, think that the-highest intellectual culture is incompatible
with the greatest spiritual development.
Women are seeking for this higher culture, not for the sake
of competing with men, but rather in order that they may
serve them better, and make fuller, brighter, happier lives for
them and for their children ; or, if not called to be wives and
mothers, that they may know how to set out on some other
path of usefulness.
There will doubtless be some examples, as in all transition
periods, of evil arising from a sudden development of the
intellectual life in women. But in another generation men
will wonder how their ancestors could have preferred their
wives to remain household drudges, rather than let them
share in some degree in their pursuits, in addition to those
peculiar duties which each must perform apart.
“ So let us,” says Professor Huxley, “have sweet girl-
graduates, by all means. The sunny curls will not cluster
less bewitchingly over their fair brows, for having well-
balanced, well-cultivated brains beneath.” (I quote from
memory, and have somewhat distorted the Professor’s happy
phrase.) Of course the whole question turns upon the sort of
education which should be given to women, but, as my letter
is already too long, I will not trouble *you with my views ;
though this, being the practical part of the subject, is the
more worthy of being fully discussed. W.
SPIRIT FACES.
Sir,—Yours of the 31st to hand. If the chair is abolished
in Miss Cook’s cabinet, they could put a low fast seat at each
end of the cabinet, as that would, with the thread tying,
answer every purpose, and which I hope will be adopted, for
I purpose sitting inside myself some day.
In your last issue I feel rather certain the whole problem is
roughly solved as to the genuineness of spirit faces, although,
as yet, we cannot get at the method of causing them to appear.
In Mr. Guppy’s letter in your last Spiritualist, page 63, he
says—“ The reason is, that as the mould of spirit hands is
taken from the hands of the medium, so is the mould of the
face,” &c. 'Again, at page 54, you say that “ Mr. Holmes saw
when in the cabinet, with Miss Cook entranced, a body faintly
luminous rising out of Miss Cook, which floated towards the
opening, both bodies being connected by luminous threads,”
&c. Now, to me, these two general ideas are near the truth,
and are the root, or basis, of a deep field of scientific research;
therefore I trust you will give every facility to the press and
men of learning to assist us in asserting or proclaiming great
facts, for we wish for nothing but the publicity of truth. As
for myself, the condemnation of the whole subject, if found
untrue, I will cheerfully help, because I hate imposture.
I notice the Times and other newspapers have begun their
fire. Of course, we shall be very glad to convince these meh,
but we don't care for them; they can’t extinguish facts, if they
write till doomsday. It may suit them better to oppose it,
but it is not so honourable as taking the present opportunity,
free of cost, and go see for themselves (through you) at Miss
»Cook’s, of Hackney. Now this invitation is, as above stated,
not merely for the press, but for scientific men; the latter can
help us to investigate the cause, whilst the former can spread
its truth. We know these “ Faces ” are produced without
trickery, as seen by the editors or writers of the Daily Tele¬
graph and Morning Post, and many other persons in London,
not in the dark, but during bright gaslight, tangible, and full
of apparent life, whilst the medium is set upon a low seat,
under an impossibility of reaching the aperture of the cabinet,
she being of diminutive stature and in trance condition during
the appearance of these varied faces.
Many silly questions are put, such as, “ What’s the good of
it all ?” Now, we can’t foresee or pretend to say what will be
the good. Let us first establish the fact; then science and
religion will both be benefitted in some way or other.
Charles Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
Jan. 4th, 1873.
Sir,—A face seance, under good test conditions throughout,
with Miss Florence E. Cook, was held on-Monday evening,
6th January, 1873 ; besides the family, the following visitors
were present :—Mr. and Mrs. Strawbridge, Miss Lisette
C. Deekens, Miss Emily Bussell, Mr. J. H. Donaldson, Mrs.
Thomas Blyton, and myself. Mr. Donaldson secured the me¬
dium’s waist with a piece of cotton, the knot being sealed
with wax, when she seated herself in the cabinet, and the end
of the thread was brought through a small hole in the cabinet
door, which was bolted and locked. The thread was held by
Mr. Donaldson during thg first-sitting. The voice of “ Katie
King ” was soon heard, and she spoke of the probability of the
manifestations being weakened consequent on the medium
not being in perfect health ; which cause also explained the
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
somewhat lengthy interval prior to “ Katie” appearing at the
opening. After sitting and chatting merrily for upwards of
twenty minutes, a hand and arm appeared, which were shortly
followed by the well known face of •* Katie King.” She
appeared full of life, and exerted herself in various ways in
order to satisfy the wishes of the visitors. Noticing the
scrutiny of Mr. Strawbridge, who, throughout the seance,
made use of an opera glass, Katie requested Mr. Donaldson to
hand the glass to her, and having looked through it and
made some novel remarks upon it, she returned it to that
gentleman. Kequesting Mrs* Thomas Blyton to approach
nearer to her, Katie, stretching out her arm, removed a comb
from that lady’s head, and on her trying to regain possession
of it, it was dodged about by Katie and eventually the comb
was placed upon the head of Mr. Donaldson. Katie showed
her face of a dark colour in about twenty seconds after having
shown herself in the most natural and beautiful condition, and
in as short a space of time again appeared dark as before.
She did this, she observed, as an additional proof that her
medium was not acting ; and if such proof were wanting, it
was given shortly after at the request of the circle, when two
spirits appeared side by side at the opening. One of the
spirits 'was that of Katie, and the other was not recog¬
nised. In order to enable some members of the circle to dis¬
tinguish the strange spirit better, they changed sides, and
again showed themselves together. Those seated nearest to
the cabinet distinguished the features very plainly, and itwas
remarked by many that the strange spirit had a prominent
nose. The next appearance was of Katie's husband, John,
who, with the strange spirit, could not bear so strong a light
as Katie; but sufficient light was given to observe his face
clearly, and to observe the profusion of dark hair,-which in
the case of Katie King was quite fair. ■ Katie came again,
and permitted one of the lady visitors to touch her hand,
which, we observed, differed in a marked degree from those
appertaining to the medium. I was then instructed by Katie
to unlock the cabinet and arouse her medium, when the
sitting was adjourned for refreshments. On resuming the
seance, Mr. Strawbridge carefully secured the medium, and
held the thread in conjunction with two other visitors, when
Katie again manifested, and remarked tnat she would be
unable to do anything further without injury to her medium.
Accordingly, all present concurred in the advisability of
closing the seance, when Katie instructed the circle to hold
hands, and the gas to be extinguished. In a few moments
the bolt of the lock in the cabinet door was heard distinctly
to be shot back, and on lighting up the door was found open,
although the key was outside. Both Mr. Donaldson and Mr.
Strawbridge reported that the pull upon the thread at the
utmost was not more than between two and three inches,
while, on experimenting afterwards, it was found that for a
a person to show themselves at the opening as Katie King did
would produce a pull on the thread of fully thirty inches.
The cabinet was, as usual, thoroughly examined, and the
seance, was a very excellent test one, considering the condition
of the medium and number of persons present.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. Thomas Blyton.
PEOSELYTISING.
Sir,—As an earnest, non-partizan investigator into the
phenomenal facts of Spiritualism, I read the editorial in your
last issue with intelligent interest. I admire to some extent
the independent tone of the article upon “ Proselytising ; ”
albeit that I think you attach too little importance "to the
customary methods of bringing scientific facts before the-
leaders of popular opinion. You say that Spiritualism needs
not the weight of any particular influential names to augment
and sustain the circulation of its psychological truths. At
least,, you imply as much throughout your able and timely
article. Now, I beg to maintain that its status would gain
much by continual “ conversions ” in eminent quarters. At
the same time, it would seem unmanly were any believers to-
demean themselves by trying to render gratuitous chances of
investigation to commonplace critics who merely betray suf¬
ficient acumen to falsify test evidence, and hasten to condemn
marvels they are too cowardly to confess, of too stupid to
fathom. I think, for the present, and as a matter of expedi¬
ency, those who favour “investigators’1’ at seances should
exercise the wisdom of the serpent in the selection of candi¬
dates ; giving the readiest facility to educated, impartial
individuals of the literary and scientific worlds. I would not
despise the opinion of the less thoughtful multitude who
clamour for admittance at the outer porch ; but “mediums”
Jan. 15, 1873.
certainly suffer from casual contact with persons of strong
preconceived ideas, to which consolidated convictions, more
enlightened public men—litterateurs in particular—should be
less firmly attached. If once a journalist or schoolman em¬
braces the peculiar facts of phenomenal Spiritualism as a
deliberative alternative of clear evidence, he cannot long
resist the fascinating inducements such mighty facts present
to favour extensive publicity. And even if a newspaper writer
should decide against the Spiritualist interpretation of a
wonderful seance, his published condemnation of proceedings
would, in most cases, lead the “ curious ” to look into the
advertised novelty otherwise uncared for, and perchance un¬
known. No one can deny the good Punch is doing Spiritualism
by its facetious, frequent, and not altogether unfriendly
allusions. Of course, the unenlightened bias against the sub¬
ject is as yet tremendous and profound. The press is willing,
but the people are weak. Take the case of the Cornhill
Magazine, which, I am informed by our clever friend, Gerald
Massey, declined in circulation by many thousands through
an article on spiritual manifestations some years since. I can
also testify to the timidity of editors in dealing with what, if
true, is surely the most important of all human questions of
research. In many widely read prints I am allowed to appear,
when I see fit, in poetry and prose ; but because I wish to un¬
derstand preternatural “experiences,” my editorial friends
think me slightly lunatic on some points. Nevertheless I
invariably get permission to report impartially the peculiarities
of any exceptional seance I may be privileged to attend. In
conclusion, I would recommend that some wealthy Spiritualists
combine to advertise this journal, and its regular contents, in
the chief secular newspapers of the day.
John T. Markley.
Crowland, Peterborough, December 23rd.
EXPERIENCES OE AN INVESTIGATOR.
Sir,—I enclose copy of a letter I wrote to the Times, but
which was too late, the Editor having closed his columns to
correspondence on the subject of Spiritualism. It may be of
use to some who are investigating the subject, and therefore
I send it to you for you to publish, if you'see fit. G. K.
To the Editor of the “ Times'''
Sir,—I have read with interest the article and the corres¬
pondence in your paper regarding Spiritualism, and I now
write in the hope that some of your readers, either Spiritualist
or scientific, may be able to help me in a dilemma.
Till lately, I had never met anyone who professed to be¬
lieve in Spiritualism, and I did not imagine that a person so
foolish existed ; but about a year ago I happened to come
across some of them, and to be thrown much among them in
business ; and, to my astonishment, I found that their belief
was evidently genuine, and not feigned. I plied them with
questions in a way that must have been to them extremely
disagreeable ; but with exemplary patience they tried to
answer all my objections. Next, just to see how far the ab¬
surdity had extended, I took in one of the Spiritualistic
newspapers, using, however, the precaution to write a letter
saying that my object in thus patronising their press, was to
expose the fraud of the mediums and the folly of their dupes;
and of an evening one or two congenial friends and myself
read this paper, and nearly rolled off our chairs with laughing.
I was, however, more than amused ; I was often annoyed and
shocked, as I have long been a Christian, and it seemed to me
that much of what I read was a horrible parody of our re¬
ligion. At last, there was put into my hand by a Spiritualist
friend a book, which purported to have been written through
a medium by spirits, and which was wonderful for its truth
and power, though the alleged source of the book was a great
stumbling-block to me. 1 therefore, for the first time, thought
it worth while to go to see some of these marvels for myself,
so as to come to a rational conclusion regarding them ; and in
determining to make an investigation, I resolved to be quite
impartial, that is, to give the mediums every fair opportunitjq
at the same time that I exercised the best of my faculties to
guard against imposture. It had been my idea that mediums
would only bold sittings in their own rooms, or, at any rate,
only where they had facilities for using previously prepared
apparatus ; but I found them willing to meet me on my own
grounds,at my own time. I therefore arranged for one of them,
a gentleman, to come to my house, where we had two sittings,
a week apart. Both these sittings were lamentable failures,
and even the medium acknowledged that nothing satisfactory
had occurred. It is true that on one occasion my books be¬
came remarkably lively, and fell about the table and on the
Jan. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
floor, some of them dancing after their fall in a way I never
knew books do before ; but this happened in the dark, and
though certainly I myself could not have manufactured the
“ manifestations ” under the circumstances in which the
medium was placed, I am not sure that a practised juggler
could not have done it.
Thinking I had proved one too many for this medium, I
sought out another to experiment on, and this time I chose
a lady, who is said by those Spiritualists who knew her, to be
the best “ voice medium ” in London ; that is, it is said that
spirits can speak in her presence as if they were once more
clothed in their bodies of flesh, and that without using her
physical organism at all. I was introduced to her by a friend,
at whose house the first sitting took place.
To begin with we sat in daylight, and various raps came,
while also the furniture moved in an unaccountable manner;
but I saw nothing to convince me. We then shut out the
light, and sat in total darkness. Almost immediately a voice
began to speak, and it continued to speak, with intervals, for
about half-an-hour. It was a strong male voice, with nothing
peculiar about it, except a little roughness ; and all that was
said was very proper, but not very original, though now and
then there were, some rather witty repartees to the remarks
made by myself and others. We had what I would call a jolly
evening, but I came away far from being converted.
The following week we had a sitting in my own house, the
medium and her husband coming all the way across London
for the purpose ; and I may mention that she.is not a profes¬
sional medium, and she asked nothing but my thanks for her
trouble. This sitting was very like the previous one, only
some of my own deceased friends purported to come ; and
though they said they could not themselves speak aloud, they
gave me messages through the ghost-speaker whom 1 have
mentioned already. These messengers were nothing out of
the common, except that I was informed I myself was a me¬
dium, and that if I sat at a table with a pencil in my hand,
my deceased friends would be able to write to me. v
This seemed a crucial test, and the moment my guests had
left, I sat in a room by myself to put it to the proof. ? For a
while nothing came, and I was laughing at the whole affair,
when suddenly my hand felt as if violently seized and forced
to perform extraordinary antics over the paper ; and at last it
-wrote short and broken sentences quite independently of my
will. These sentences were often unintelligible, but when
I could understand them, they were usually contrary to my
preconceived notions. The best one was, “ Every one is a
medium, only you are a writing one.'’
Since then I have had a great deal of writing of various
kinds, religious and secular ; grave and gay ; prose and
poetry; also in English and French, though I have not
spoken French for about twelve years, and have almost for¬
gotten the language. This writing comes one word at a time,
and beforehand I have no conception of what is coming; yet
the sentences are well composed, and in a flowing style ; and
sometimes a long and solid argument is thus written out,
through which runs a much better-sustained train of thought
than I am, in my normal state, capable of. As to the poetry,
I had not been guilty of writing verse since two attempts at
prize poems when I was a boy at school, and, nevertheless,
hymns came out word by word, without thought or trouble on
my part.
This is what I want explained, and if any one can make
any suggestions, I shall be very glad.
I may add that some of the writing has been most extraordi¬
nary in character, often false, and sometimes what I feel inclined
to call blasphemous ; but most of it has been beautiful, and
certainly not the twaddle that “spirit” communications are
generally supposed to be.
The physical phenomena we are investigating patiently at
the house of a friend, without the aid of so-called mediums;
and though nothing has yet taken place worth recording, the
furniture is dragged about. Careful experiment seems to me
the only way of arriving at the truth.
I do not wish my name yet to appear in print, but I leave
it to your discretion to give it to anyone who may ask for it.
King William-street, E.C., January 3rd, 1873.
Gr. K.
PSYCHIC FOKCE.
Sir,—In the expectation that a third edition of Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox’s book upon “ Psychic Force ” will soon appear, the
second having been announced as exhausted, it is to be
hoped he will either admit or disavow the following state¬
ment contained in an interesting pamphlet which has lately
been published.*
The author says “ Mr. Serjeant Cox told me that he had
had many seances with Mr. Home, at his own private house,
and that all the manifestations were in the light, and with no
possibility of trickery.” Mr. Cox is reported to have said,
“ If Mr. Home was sitting at one end of the table, and I at
the other, whatever I asked for was brought to me by invisi¬
ble power. A hand-bell was taken up from the table, and
rung by unseen power. I requested the bell should be brought
to me. It was placed in my hands, and as I took the bell I
felt the fingers on a natural hand, although I could not sec
them. I requested that my pocket-book should be taken from
my pockets ; while the pocket-book was being drawn out I
seized the hand that was taking it away by the wrist. The
hand and wrist felt as natural as the natural member, though
I could not see it.” Page 39, and in the following page is a
narrative quite as remarkable.
It would be very obliging if the learned gentleman would
have the goodness to state in what respect the so-called
“ Psychic ” phenomena described by him differ from those as¬
cribed to spirits who have become disembodied. H.
Edinburgh.
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM.
[From our own Correspondent.)
Boston, U.S., Dec. 16th, 1872.
SmtmjALTSTs here are holding a series of meetings
at the music hall, on Sunday afternoons, and it was a
strange sight to an Englishman like myself to behold
two thousand people listening to a lecture by an avowed
Spiritualist. Yesterday Professor W. Denton lectured
to an audience of more than two thousand people on
“ Poverty, its Causes and its Cure.” After a few
remarks on the effects of poverty, the lecturer remarked
that various religious teachers had passed encomiums
on poverty, and quoted this passage among others,
“ Blessed are ye poor, &c.,” “ hut,” added he, “ the
Church is making very little attempt to secure the
blessing.” He alluded to the effects of poverty on the
body, obliging people to live in small close houses, and
thus causing disease, while, at the same time, it pre¬
vents their securing proper medical aid; on the mind,
debarring them from books of travel, and other means
of education ; on the morals, making them dependent,
and diminishing their self-respect. As causes of poverty
he dwelt upon ignorance and waste ; waste of material
in war and in intemperance; waste of labour and time;
waste produced by the tyranny of fashion. He told
his audience they were in slavery to this deity of
fashion, both men and women. Idleness was, he said,
another fruitful cause of poverty. Men looked on
labour as a part of Adam’s curse, and would not do
more than they were compelled; for this orthodoxy
was in part responsible. He then advocated strongly
the doctrine that the land should not be owned by
private parties, but should belong to the State, and
only be put into the hands of those who actually made
use .of it, returning it to the State when they ceased to
work it. In conclusion, he strongly advised every man
to get even a small piece of land, and then, with
industry and economy, he might lay up treasure for
himself, sufficient to set him above the reach of
poverty.
One newspaper discussion on Spiritualism has begun in
Public Opinion, and another in the National Reformer.
Mr. Serjeant Cox has in the press a popular introduce
tion to Psychology, to be entitled, Why am I? It will appear
in February.
* “ Eight Days with the Spiritualists,” by James Gillingham, Ghard. F
Pitman, Paternoster-row, London.
80
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental, trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a, very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, abouLthe same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations,-but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of, the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family'.circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
’ Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
Gr. H. ANDREWS, '
‘ v ' • ' TAILOR, &c.,
'61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
, their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
Well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. , £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests   0 7 o| Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit    ... •...- ... £2 10s. Od.
-And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
; as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance : its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylv^nus Harms, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and" CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
in England,- by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
‘had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler,
engraved from a Photograph by Jambs Partridge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Battenbury, of Beer, Devon. Edited by
George Fraser, with numerous explanatory notes by Miss Elizabeth Traies.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871 and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten-
Lury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart, M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlow,
Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady Rolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Rolle, .1. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S. Morley, Esq., M P., Dr. John Brown (“Rab and His
Friends.”), Dahte G Rossetti, Esq, Johu Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., C.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton ana Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. Amelia Lewis, JohnC. Freund, Esq. Algernon C.
Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq. (Earthly Paradise), F. Madox
Brown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan, Esq.,'M.P., Jos. Aspinwall,
Esq., &c., &c.
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. George Fraser,- 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N., or to the publishers, British and Colonial Publishing Com¬
pany, Limited, 81a, Fleet-street, E.C.
BEVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers ot The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
1ST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet
EXPENSES
Spiritualist ”: —
of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of
Charles Blackburn, Esq 
“ A Friend at a Distance ”  
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
W. Tebb, Esq 
Enmore Jones, Esq.    
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S 
Mrs, E. M. Ccx  
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart 
Thomas Grant, Esq  ..
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq 
Friends-at Brixton:—
Miss Ponder 
Miss E. Ponder ...   
Mrs. Rudd   
“Longfellow ”  
Mr. Withall 
Mr. E. Bird 
Mr. George Dawson  
Mr. Dawson Rogers  
Mr. Rogers
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald   
Mrs. Gunyon 
“A Friend,” Temple 
N. F, Daw, Esq  
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S   ... 3 3
James Wason, Esq.-      ... ...    ... 3 3
The CountdSs of Caithness  
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston.   2 2
“Bitterness”  ...   
Algernon Joy, Esq    2 0
James Beattie, Esq     2 0
G. Thomson, Esq.. M.D    ... 1 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell ...       1 0
“A Friend,”Manchester  '  1 1
Benjamin Coleman, Esq    1 1
E. Musgrave, Esq    1 1
“V.”    ...   1 1
“ A Friend,” F.R.S    1 0
Miss Kislingbury * 1 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq   10
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  1 0
Miss J. H. Douglas ...   1 0
“AFriend”   i o
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B  ...  ;   1 0
Mrs. Hennings ■ *  *   1 o
J. Craig, Esq   o 10
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account    0 8
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman. chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood; S.E.
the
‘This.
s. d.
0 0
0 0
5 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
8 0 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the'Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
