AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
SCIENCE.
: [REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 128.—(VoL. VI.—No. 6.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 5} 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
Contents.
Round the World among Spiritualists Spiritualism in Australia—
Spiritualism of the Australian Savages—Spiritualism in New Zea¬
land—Maori Spiritualism—Tohunga, and Voices of the Dead—
Theological Intolerance in New Zealand—Spiritualism in China—
. Chinese Kitchen-gods and Spirits—What Missionaries say of
Chinese Spirit-intercourse—Ancient Chinese Spiritualism—The
Religion of the Malays—Spiritualism in India—The Return Jour¬
ney—Spiritualism in Turkey  -  61
Spiritual Manifestations in Austria. By the Baroness Adelma Vay ... 67
Pearls at £e<mces ... ...   t     67
Conditions influencing Spiritual Manifestations    68
Electricity in the Body   \  68
Spiritualism in Dalston   ...     69-
The Nature of Spirit Life ...   ...   70
A Spiritual Prayer... ... ,.  ...    ••• 71
Poetry:—Our Angel-Kindred ... ....    72
Correspondence :—The Philadelphia 9«mees   ... ... 72
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse in America, 67; Work for the Imagination,
69: Witchcraft in Devonshire, 70; The Temple of Diana at
Ephesus, 70; A Good Test, 71; The Illustrated Spiritual Periodi¬
cal, 71; The Holmes’s in Philadelphia, 71; Passed to the Higher
Life, 71; The National Association of Spiritualists, 71; The Last
Witches Executed in England, 71; Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph ... 71
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested lo communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
{Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 $ 26 Viet, cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
JVwfees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. {Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., O. N. 0. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E, Marsden, Es ■ R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.O.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffln, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffln).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S,
CLASS.
oa
aw
<i
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
& s.d.
6 0 0
8 0 0
1 10 0
1 0 0
& s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
& s.d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s.d.
112 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.’’ Death only.
1000
500'
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 66
0 11 6
0,6 6
‘B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 2 0 1 2 6
1 3 0 0 12 O'
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
Fparkes, spiritualist photourapher.
• Sittings a fa seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittine. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment..
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets, Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 8d, Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Commencement of the Second Course
UPON THE « SOUL AND SPIRIT'OP MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.80, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-offlee order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
. by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman,
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
"O EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyehologiques,
JLV fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Pogt
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 5, 1875,
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office -Beakers foe 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. “William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. E. Casson, Mr1. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East londoh spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Gogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, blandford-street, baker-street, w.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—(See Advertisement. ■
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Mesmerism, electro-biology, fascination.
How to produce sleep upon any person with certainty. Why do
Mesmerists fail? &c. M. Rigg, Teacher of Mesmerism, &e.,by post or ap¬
pointment. How to produce all those curious stage phenomena, he can
teach efficiently bypost.
M. Rigg, practical mesmerist, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.C,
Advice in • all cases of disease. Pamphlet, &c„ gratis, by post. Id.
stamp.
0 THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena Occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c, London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series. '
AC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Taree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
E. J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
ion. Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Btipks not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
'Ppifijtualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, tea. Sub-
iserjbers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
gjirice, 7s. 63, • Single,copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
ji||fg|| E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
llitlsi
Nawcastle-on-Tyne.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BO0K-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four t eel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jrens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
VOjLUJVlE ^IX. JMUJVIBE^ @IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBUARY 6th3 187B.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
ixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the ofBce not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Alien, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders re6eived for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulamty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.,
Richmoncl.—Mr. J. Gary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
Jp! E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —T6 promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-gquare. W.
ROUND THE WORLD AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Last week we received from Messrs. Colby and Rich,
publishers, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S., a copy
of Mr. Peebles’ new book, entitled “ Round the World;
or, Travels in Polynesia, China, India, Arabia, Egypt,
Syria, and other Heathen Countries.” It is now six
years since Mr. Peebles first visited England on his
way to Trebizonde, at which place he has been ap¬
pointed Consul by the Government of the United
States. During his brief stay in this country he de¬
livered some public lectures on Spiritualism, attended
several seances, chiefly at the residence of Mrs. Berry,
and he made for himself numerous friends amongst
us, who remain much attached to him to this day.
During his first visit to the East he collected some
interesting psychological facts, chiefly in relation
to the healing powers of the dancing dervishes. Since
then, however, he and Dr. Dunn have performed a feat
which has not yet been accomplished by any other
Spiritualist, namely, they have travelled all round the
civilised globe, inquiring into the state of Spiritualism
in every country which they visited; and as
Spiritualism is not in a particularly flourishing condi¬
tion, except in America and England, the feat was an
arduous one in many respects. In his travels round the
globe, he was accompanied by Dr. Dunn, a well-known
American medium, who obtains both physical and
trance manifestations. For all these reasons the book
now under notice is unique.
At the outset of the book, Mr. Peebles states how he
Started from Hammonton, New Jersey, for San Fran¬
cisco, across the American continent, a distance of
3,500 miles, or a week’s travel by rail. He forgets to
say when he started on his travels, the first date
mentioned in the book being August 15th, when he
reached Cheyenne,/the capital of Wyoming, but he
omits to state in what year; we believe it to have been
in 1872. On his way to San Francisco he not only
visited Utah and Salt Lake, but he made a personal
call on Brigham Young, whom he describes as on ex¬
cellent terms with himself, as too independent for a
moral hero, and too selfish for a saint. Mr. Peebles
gives some interesting extracts from a work written by
the founder of Mormpnism, Joseph Smith, to the
Chicago Democrat in 1842, proving that the first
Mormon leader was a seeing medium, and occasionally
had visions of surpassing beauty.
There is nothing in the title of Mr. Peebles’ book to
show that it is connected with Spiritualism, and indeed
the body of the work contains a great deal upon other
subjects, so that it is a book probably intended for cir- •
culation also among the general public. In the present '
notice attention will be confined to those portions which
relate to Spiritualism; hence it will not be necessary
to refer to much that he saw and did in Utah territory ,;^
and California. While in San Francisco he lectured at . 1
the Mercantile Library upon “ Spiritualism and
cial Life in Turkey ” to intelligent and critical audiences^
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
under the presidency of Mr. Kendrick, and on. the 11th
of Sept., 1872, he embarked in the steamer Idaho
for Australia, a passage of from thirty-five to forty
days.
On board the boat were Prince Augustus, Duke of
Saxe, who married the Brazilian Emperor’s daughter,
and Prince Phillipe, an officer in the Austro-Hungarian
army, whom he describes as modest and thoroughly
cultured gentlemen. Occasionally during the voyage
he and Dr. Dunn would retire to their cabin, where
trance addresses were delivered through the mediumship
of the latter; some of these messages are interesting,
although the astronomical remarks made by one of the
spirits proved that he was totally ignorant of the facts
of the science; for instance, he spoke of one of the
Pleiades as a planet within the range of telescopic ob¬
servation, and as possessed of an atmosphere like that
of the earth, being evidently unaware that he was
speaking of a sun possessing a temperature greater than
that of molten iron. The communicating intelligence
added, with all the self-complacency of ignorance, that
astronomers who contradicted his assertiohs ought to talk
with becoming modesty, the science of astronomy being
yet in its swaddling clothes.
The first point at which they touched was the Sand¬
wich Islands, nine in number, and containing some
65,000 inhabitants. Mr. Peebles says that the natives
are not cannibals, and that a rumour that they were
arose from their dissecting, for anatomical purposes,
an Englishman who had been slain in battle. Did
these intelligent savages learn anatomy in Guy’s Hos¬
pital ? The natives originally worshipped idols who
were traditionally the images of deified mortals; they
believe in good and bad spirits, in a future life, and in
the return of the departed from the land of shades.
Bennett, who first described their mythology, says that
there was always a class among them who practised
sorcery, and offered prayers to spirits. During his
short stay in Honolulu, Mr. Peebles visited Mr. Shel¬
don, the editor of the Pacific Advertiser, who related
to him several interesting incidents relating to Spirit¬
ualism in his own family, and other cases among the
natives of the islands. It is to be regretted that Mr.
Peebles has omitted to record these little-known facts
about psychological phenomena among the savages of
the Sandwich Islands.
On Sept. 26th they sailed from Honolulu to New
Zealand, and in their daily outlook had beautiful views
of the Pacific Islands, decked in the rich and gorgeous
vegetation of the tropics. These beautiful islands are
peopled by inhabitants who are described by the late
Bishop of Oxford as “ children of nature, children of
the air, children of light, children of the sun, children
of beauty taking their greatest pleasure in the dance.”
Mr. Peebles says that the inhabitants of the Cannibal
Islands have been misrepresented by the missionaries;
that they possess virtues and good qualities, and are
honest. He argues that the Polynesian races were
better morally and physically than they are now,
before they were visited by missionaries and the sailors
from whaling ships. On the 20th of October the ship
touched at Auckland, New Zealand, and Mr. Peebles
spent a pleasant afternoon with the Eev. Samuel
Edgar, a liberal-minded Congregational clergyman,
who offered him his pulpit to preach from upon Spirit¬
ualism. Six or seven days’ further sail took him to
Sydney, Australia, where his first hard work in the
cause of Spiritualism began.
Feb. 5, 1875.
SPIEITUALISM IX AUSTRALIA.
After describing Sydney and Melbourne, and stating
how Australia suffers because it has no great rivers, he
tells how he met some of the most active Melbourne
Spiritualists, namely, Messrs. Bright, Walker, Terry,
Tyerman, Sanders, Gill, Stowe, Counsellor Mcllwraith,
Dr. Motherwell, and Mr. Carson. He says that Spirit¬
ualism took no organic form in Melbourne until 1869,
when “ the Victorian Association of Progressive Spirit¬
ualists ” was formed. Mr. Peebles states that Mr.
Terry became acquainted with Spiritualism in 1861;
he is a healing medium, a bookseller, and the editor and
proprietor of the Harbinger of Light, which spiritual
journal succeeded the Glowworm, published by Mr. B.
S. Nayler, late of New Milford, Pembrokeshire. Mr.
Peebles had a kindly public reception in Melbourne at
the hands of about two hundred ladies and gentlemen,
who assembled in the Masonic Hall to receive himself
and Dr. Dunn; one of the gentlemen who invited him
to visit Australia was Mr. Stanford, an American, the
brother of ex-Governor Stanford, of California, who at
present is president of the Central Pacific Railway.
Mr. J. Ross presided over the meeting, and the hall
was tastefully decorated.
Mr. Peebles had not long begun to lecture in Australia
when he discovered the local press to be exceptionally
abusive; it called him a “long-haired apostate,” a
“ suspicious humbug,” a “ rabid lunatic,” an “ uncouth
Revivalist,” and a “ vulgar blasphemer.” It said:
“ This great and good man (Mr. Peebles) in speaking,
works himself up to a frenzy, while with bloodshot
eyes and rolling tongue and foaming mouth, he tells
the opinion that some heathen Chinee had formed of
Christianity away somewhere in the far West.” Any¬
body at all acquainted with the mild, inoffensive Mr.
Peebles will appreciate at its true value the veracity of
such statements as these. The clairvoyance and healing
gifts of Dr. Dunn were ridiculed in the daily papers,
the city was in a state of excitement about the whole
matter, and in walking the streets of Melbourne Mr.
Peebles heard such expressions as—“ There, there he
goes—that old, long-haired Spiritualist.” Mr. Peebles
might have escaped these remarks, however, had he
had his hair cut. The Melbourne Daily Argus and
the Ballarat Star were the only journals which treated
him fairly.
At Ballarat he was the guest of Mr. John Einlay,
residing at Gracefield, some three miles from the city,
a zealous Spiritualist and reformer, and a Shaker; he
is the master of a fine suburban academy. Mr. Peebles
found the working-men and gold-diggers in Ballarat to
b^ in a prosperous state; the wages of the miners then
averaged about £2 5s. per week, working eight hours
a day. At Castlemaine, a town containing 7,000 in¬
habitants, he found a fine congregation of Spiritualists,
ministered to every Sunday by Mr. J. C. Leach, a
solicitor and gentleman of culture. At Sandhurst Mr.
Peebles delivered lectures in the Rifles Orderly Hall,
under the presidency of Mr. Denovan, an ex-member
of the Colonial Parliament, who is universally esteemed
as brave in the utterance of his convictions, and who
has recently been invited to become a corresponding
member of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. Mr. Peebles found a few Spiritualists at
Geelong who were afraid to state their belief publicly ;
but at Stawell he found many free-thinkers and
Spiritualists, the latter unnecessarily divided upon the
subject of reincarnation. The Stawell Spiritualists
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
^Feb. 5, *1875.
have a fine edifice for Sunday meetings, known as tlie
Lyceum Hall, Mr. B. S. Nayler being their settled
speaker.
Mr. Peebles narrates how the savages of North-
Eastern Australia are star-worshippers, chiefly of the
Pleiades. They believe in immortality; they do not
dread God, but reserve all their fears for the evil
spirit, “the debble,” to whom they render a sort of
worship. He also makes the following statement about
the belief of the natives in spirits:—
SPIRITUALISM OF THE AUSTRALIAN SAVAGES.
Spirit is the underlying cause of all motion, energy, and
moral activity. In the aboriginal “ ceremonies, superstitions,
and beliefs, there may be traced,” says Mr. Parker, “ relics of
of sun-worship, serpent-worship, and the worship of ancestral
spirits whom they profess to frequently see.” They believe
that one class of spirits dwells in the air, another in the
mountain, and others still wander about among the tall
trees. These natives seldom quit a camp-fire at night, for
fear of encountering malignant spirits. Mr. Benwick, among
other marvels, writes this: “ A spirit appeared to a lubra,—
black woman,—announcing her speedy death. She related
the occurrence the next day, with serious forebodings. Two
days after seeing the apparition she died. Believing in de¬
moniacal possession, the mediumistic ‘ medicine-men ’ of the
tribe * exorcise the evil spirits,’ something as did Jesus and
the apostles in New-Testament times. This class of men also
alleviate pain, remove disease, and heal the sick, by charms
and mesmeric manipulations. They dance within the en¬
closures of mystic rings, fall in the trance, and describe the
marvellous visions beheld.” The Bev. Mr. Bidley gives the
following account of a “ corroboree: ” “ At Burndtha, on the
Barwon, I met a company of forty blacks, engaging in a
ceremony of some mystical purpose. A chorus of twenty,
old and young, were singing, and beating time with
boomerangs. A dozen or more were looking on. Suddenly,
from under a sheet of bark, darted a man, with his body
whitened by pipe-clay, his face painted yellow, and a tuft of
feathers fastened upon the top of his head. He stood twenty
minutes gazing upwards. One of the aborigines, who stood
by, said he was looking for the spirits of dead men. At
length they came, proving to be evil spirits, and a brisk
conflict followed. Others of the party joined in this
warfare with the ‘powers in the air,’ driving the ghosts
away.” They have a singular ceremony, called Ye pene
amie gai, or dance of separate spirits. Holding branches in
their hands, they dance in measured tread, and sing, till
they fall prostrate in a sort of ecstatic trance. While in
this condition, they hold converse with spirits, and utter
prophecies.
Before Mr. Peebles and Dr. Dunn left for New
Zealand they were presented with testimonials, and a
large farewell soiree was held in their honour.
SPIEITTJAilSM IN NEW ZEAiAND.
Our travellers left Melbourne for New Zealand in
the Albion, and on arriving at Port Chalmers, were met
by several Spiritualists, who accompanied them by rail
to Dunedin, a journey of half an hour’s duration.
Mr. Peebles describes Dunedin as a city “ sitting like a
young queen overshadowed with mountains, and with
crystal waters rippling at her feet.” It has 19,000
inhabitants. He says that the general character of
New Zealand is somewhat Scottish, and, though sterner,
is morally superior to that of Yictoria. The scenery of
New Zealand, with its ever-green foliage, he describes
as beautiful, and as a blending of the Swiss mountains
with the Scottish highlands. At Dunedin he was the
guest of Mr. Redmayne. He visited Bangiora, where
Mr. and Mrs. R. Schmidt were the only avowed
Spiritualists. Of the Spiritualism of the Maories he
says:—
MAORI SPIRITUALISM.
Belation to, and communion with, a world of spirits are
beliefs almost, if not completely universal. The native tribes
and clans of these islands are not only aware of holding
intercourse with the so-called dead, but they understand the
abuse, often using their mediumistic privileges for selfish
ends. During their wars with the English, they were uni¬
formly made acquainted by vision, clairvoyance, or clair-
audience, with the movements of the British troops, before
action in battle. Not a plan of her Majesty’s officers could be
kept from them. The leading chief of the Han Hans was
a noted medium and medicine-man. He distinctly, said that
the “spirits of the dead” guided him to his victories. The
Maoris in the north island still own much territory, have
their king, believe in communicating spirit intelligences, and
hold but little intercourse with Pakeha, the white man.
The medium-priest in a tribe is called Tohunga. They
meet in closed apartments, and chant their songs till the
flickering fire fades away, when the Tohunga goes into his
ecstatic state, and the spirit controlling tenders counsel, de¬
scribes his new habitation in spirit life, gives the names of
those whom he has met, and bears messages in return to kin¬
dred in the higher life. That these Maoris of New Zealand
talk with immortals, no intelligent man having lived among
them disputes. Are they Spiritualists, then, or Spiritists ?
Spiritualism is the synonym of thfe harmonial philosophy.
Spiritism is the bare fact of spirit-converse.
TOHUNGA, AND VOICES OE THE DEAD.
The racy writer of Old New Zealand, treating of spiritual
experiences among the Maoris, says in substance, “ A popular
youngchief, something of ascholar, and registrar of births and
deaths, had been killed in battle; and, at the request of
friends, the Tohunga had promised to evoke, on a certain
night, his spirit. The appointed time came. Fires were lit.
The Tohunga repaired to the darkest corner of the room. All
was silence, save the sobbing of the sisters of the deceased
warrior-chief. There were thirty of us, sitting on the rush-strewn
floor, the door shut, and the fire now burning down to embers.
Suddenly there came a voice out from the partial darkness,
Salutation, salutation to my family, to my tribe, to you, pdkeha,
my friend!' Our feelings were taken by storm. The oldest
sister screamed, and rushed with extended arms in the direction
from whenqe the voice came. Her brother, seizing, restrained
her by main force. Others exclaimed, ‘ Is it you? is it you ?
truly it is you ! aue! aue ! ’ and fell quite insensible upon the
floor. The older women and some of the aged men, were not
moved in the slightest degree, though believing it to be the
spirit of the chief.
“ Beflecting upon the novelty of the scene, the ‘ darkness
visible,’ and the deep interest manifest, the spirit spoke
again ‘ Speak to me, my family, speak to me, my tribe;
speak to me, the pakeha! ’ At last the silence gave way, and
the brother spoke: * How is it with you ? is it well with you
in that country ?’ The answer came, though not in the voice
of the Tohunga-medium, but in strange, sepulchral sounds :
1 It is well with me, my place is a good place. I have seen our
friends: they are all with me!' A woman from another part
of the room now anxiously cried out, ‘ Have you seen my
sister?’ ‘ Yes, I have seen her: she is happy in our beautiful
country.’ ‘ Tell her my love so great for her will never cease.’
‘ Yes, I will bear the message.’ Here the native woman btirst
into tears, and my own bosom swelled in sympathy.
“ The spirit speaking again, giving directions about property
and keepsakes, I thought I would more thoroughly test the
genuineness of all this; andl said, ‘We cannot find your book
with the registered names; where have you concealed it? ’
The answer came instantly, ‘ I concealed it between the tahuhu
of my house and the thatch ; straight over you as you go in
at the door,’ The brother rushed out to see. All was silence.
In five minutes he came hurriedly back, with the bools in his
hand /. It astonished me.
“ It was now late ; and the spirit suddenly said,1 Farewell,
my family, farewell, my tribe: I go.' Those present breathed
an impressive farewell; when the spirit cried out again, from
high in the air, ‘ Farewell! ’
“ This, though seemingly tragical, is in every respect lite¬
rally true. But what was it? ventriloquism, the Devil, or
what ? ”
This last paragraph is simply a sop thrown out to please
the orthodox. It might be paralleled thus : Peter, James, and
John heard the spirits of Moses and Elias “ talking with
Jesus ” upon the Mount of Transfiguration. “ But what was
it?—ventriloquism, the Devil, or what ? ”
Spiritualism is as common in the isles of the ocean to-day
as it was in Palestine when theNazarene there lived, eighteen
centuries since. Dillon, commanding the East India
Company’s surveying ship “ Besearch,” visited the island of
anikovo,—lat. 11° 40' south, long. 166° 40' east,—for the
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1875,
purpose of inquiring into the fate of the French expedition
under La P6rouse. At this island, where Dillon remained
twenty-three days, he tells us there were large houses set
apart for the use of disembodied spirits. Markham, in “ The
Cruise of ‘The Eosario ’ in the South Seas in 1871,” refers to
the fact as related by Dillon.
Mr. Peebles says that the New Zealand mind is
naturally sceptical, and that some of the Spiritualists
tread on the very border lines of materialism. In
Dunedin .there is a “ Society for the Investigation of
Spiritualism,” of which Mr. Redmayne is president,
Mr. Wilson secretary, Mr. Bevejdey treasurer, and
Messrs. Logan, Stout, and Garrick the committee.
Mr. Beverley was born in Dundee ; he is a botanist, a
mathematician, a deep thinker, and the inventor of a
new thermometer. Mr. Peebles and Dr. Dunn were
treated fairly by the local newspapers.
Mr. Peebles narrates how Mr. Logan was a church
member who had been fed too long upon the sulphurous
husks of eternal punishment, so by way of relief he
attended the lectures upon Spiritualism, with the
following results :—
THEOLOGICAL INTOLERANCE IN NEW ZEALAND.
Dunedin, March 19, 1873.
Mr. John Logan.—Dear Sir,—I am directed to summon you
to appear before the session at a meeting to be held in the front
vestry of the church on Monday, the 10th instant, at half-past
seven (7.30) in the evening, to answer the following charges
made against you; viz., That you appeared on the platform of
the theatre at a public lecture, delivered by Mr. Peebles, on the
evening of the Lord’s Day, 2nd February last, when certain
doctrines were propounded, as reported in the papers, contrary
to the doctrines of this church.
That, being waited on by a committee appointed by the
session, to remonstrate with you, and express its strong disap¬
proval of your conduct, you avowed your right to appear where
you did on Saturday or Sunday, and refused to abstain from
such conduct for the future,—I am, &c., John Bovie,
Session Clerk, Knox Church.
This gentleman, Mr. Logan, was a most exemplary
man, a faithful officer in the church, and a clerk to the
superintendent of Otago, his family occupying a high
social position. And yet he was arraigned, tried, con¬
victed, and excommunicated by presbytery and synod !
Mr. Peebles evidently has no intention of visiting
Australia or New Zealand again, or he would not have
said that the ladies of those countries have more of the
coarseness of Reuben’s beauties than of delicacy and
refinement. He says that neither paint nor powder can
make up for inferiority of outline, but he qualifies this
by adding, “I have seldom found'better women or
nobler men.” But he qualifies this statement again by
adding, “ This is especially true as referring to leading
Spiritualists,” so that he leaves the others to shift for
themselves.
On leaving New Zealand the friends there presented
Mr. Peebles and Dr. Dunn with beautifully illuminated
scrolls.
spirititalism: in china.
From New Zealand they went to China, and there
being no direct line of steamers, they embarked on the
sailing vessel Harriet Armitage, well fitted, and freighted
with 107 Chinamen booked for Hong Kong, who having
gathered glittering piles of wealth from the gold-fields
of the South Seas, had turned their faces towards their
native land to enjoy their gains, and be buried with
their fathers. In the course of the voyage the Chinese
prayed to the Wind-god for wind, and went through a
ceremony with lighted reeds and candles ; after finish¬
ing their incantations they threw some rice and tea into
the ocean, the result being a fine breeze from the right
quarter, which of course would not have come without
this hocus-pocus.
They again passed the Fiji Islands, and Mr. Peebles
remarks : “ The Fijis must soon fall into the hands of
the English”—a prophecy which has since been verified
by tbe result. ■ A newspaper is published in the Islands
called the Fiji Times; it has occasionally called atten¬
tion to Spiritualism. Mr. Peebles reports the seances
with Dr. Dunn which he held on board the ship during
the long and weary voyage.
At last they reached Hong Kong, which in English
means “ Incense Harbour,” because the junks and proas
here discharge their cargo of fragrant spices. His
statements about the Spiritualism of the Chinese have
already been published in these pages. Mr. Peebles
visited Canton, where he was the guest of Dr. Kerr,
and he discovered the American Consul (Mr. Bailey) to
be a distant relation of his own. He says that China
had homes for the aged, asylums for the blind, found¬
ling hospitals, and retreats for lame and worn-out
animals “long before more civilised people stepped foot
upon their shores.” He makes the following statement
about Chinese kitchen gods :—
CHINESE KITCHEN-GODS AND SPIRITS.
The Chinese have been educated to believe that communica¬
tions can be received from the inhabitants of the heavens
and the hells, after complying with certain conditions.
Dreams and visions are carefully noted. Trance is common
in the higher circles of Chinese society. Considering it
sacred, and connecting it with their ancestors in heaven, they
conceal it, so far as is possible, from the searching, critical
eyes of foreigners. A recent writer says, “ I wonder if the
Spiritualists of this day in New England ever think that their
belief is nothing new in theory or practice, or that it has
been known and believed in China for more than twenty-
three hundred years. Not only do the Chinese Spiritual¬
ists believe in the same agencies and same results which
distinguish Spiritualists here, but they also practise all the
methods adopted in this country for spiritual manifestations, and
a hundred others that do not seem to be known here.. . During
the stay of spirits in that nether world, the lower spheres,
they can rap on furniture, pull the garments of the living,
make noises in the air, play on musical instruments, show
their footprints in the sand, and, taking possession, of human
beings, talk through them. In a thousand other ways they
manifest their presence.”
It is very common for coolies to consult trance-mediums of
the cash-taking kind,i touching the wish and will of their an¬
cestors, before deciding to sail for the western world. They
also sacrifice to Buddha, and petition the attendance of
guardian spirits during their absence from China.
Mr. Peebles gives a great deal of information about
the religion, the manners, and customs of the Chinese.
He further gives the following information about
Chinese seances:—
WHAT MISSIONARIES SAY OE CHINESE SPIRIT-INTERCOURSE.
“ There is no driving out of these Chinese,” says Father
Gonzalo, “ the cursed belief that the spirits of their ancestors
are about them, availing themselves of every opportunity to
give advice and counsel.”
“ They burn incense, beat a drum to call the attention of
the desired spirit,” writes Padra de Mae, “ and then, by idola¬
trous methods, one of which is a spasmodic ecstasy, they get
responses from the dead. . .. They have great fear of the evil
spirits that inhabit forests.”
In two volumes entitled Social Life among the Chinese, by
the Rev. J. Doolittle, the author informs us that “ they have
invented several ways by which they find out the pleasure of
gods and spirits. One of the most common of their utensils is
the Ka-pue, a piece of bamboo-root, bean-shaped, and divided
in the centre, to indicate the positive and the negative. The
incense lighted, the Ka-pue properly manipulated before the
symbol-god, the pieces are tossed from the medium’s hand
indicating the will of the spirit by the way they fall.” . . . The
following manifestation is more mental: “ The professional
takes in the hand a stick of lighted incense to expel all defiling
Feb. 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
influences ; prayers of some kind are repeated, the fingers are
interlaced, and the medium’s eyes are shut, giving unmistak¬
able evidence of being possessed by some supernatural and
spiritual power. The body sways back and forward; the
incense falls, and the person begins to step about, assuming
the walk and peculiar attitude of the spirit. This is con¬
sidered infallible proof that the divinity has entered the body
of the medium. Sometimes the god, using the mouth of
the medium, gives the supplicant a sound scolding for in¬
voking his aid to obtain unlawful or unworthy ends.” . . .
Another “ method of obtaining communications, is for the
applicant to make his wishes known to a person belonging to
a society or company established for facilitating such con¬
sultations. Upon these occasions, the means employed con¬
sist in the use of a willow or bamboo pen, placed upon the top
of the hand over a table of white sand; the arm becomes
tremulous, and the writing is produced.” And still another
course is i for the female medium to sit by a table on which
are two lighted candles, and three sticks of burning incense.
After inquiring the names of the deceased, and the time of
their death, she bows her head upon the table with the face
concealed. Soon lifting it, the eyes closed, the countenance
changed, the silence profound, she is supposed to be possessed
by the spirit of the dead individual, and begins to address the
applicant; in other words, the dead has come into her body,
using her organs of speech to communicate with the living. . .
Sometimes these mediums profess to be possessed by some
specified god of great healing powers, and in this condition
they prescribe for the sick. It is believed that the god or
spirit invoked actually casts itself into the medium, and dic¬
tates the medicine.”
Eev. Mr. Nevius in his work, China and the Chinese, declares
that “volumes might be written upon the gods, genii, and
familiar spirits supposed to be continually in communication
with the people. The Chinese have a large number of books
upon this subject, among the most noted of which is the
Liau-chai-che-i, a large work of sixteen volumes. . . . TuSien
signifies a spirit in the body. And there is a class of familiar
spirits supposed to dwell in the bodies of certain Chinese who
become the mediums of communication with the unseen
world. Individuals said to be possessed by these spirits are
visited by multitudes, particularly those who have recently
lost relatives by death, and wish to converse with them. . . .
Remarkable disclosures and revelations are believed to be
made by the involuntary movements of a bamboo pencil, and
through those that claim to see in the dark. Persons consider¬
ing themselves endowed With superior intelligence are firm be¬
lievers in these and other modes of consulting spirits.”
It was my privilege to see these coolie Chinamen conversing
with their spirit-ancestors in several temples. Their methods
are numerous; and the prevalence of this belief among them
astonished me. It is almost, universal; and yet with the
lower classes it has degenerated into absurd superstitions.
ANCIENT CHINESE SPIEITUALISM.
“ The practice of divination,” writes Sir John Barrow, “ with
many strange methods of summoning the dead to instruct the
living, and reveal the future, is of very ancient origin, as is
proven by Chinese manuscripts antedating the revelations of
Scripture.” The “ eight diagrams, with directions for divina¬
tion, were invented,” says the Rev. Mr. Nevius, “ by the
Emperor Fuhi, probably nearly 3000 B.C. About 1100 B.C.,
Wen-Wang, the Literary Prince, and his son Chow-Kung,
further developed the system, with explanations.” The Yih-
King is a sort of encyclopaedia of spiritual marvels and mani¬
festations. It was denominated, in the time of Confucius, the
Book of Changes.
Gliddon writes, “ The emperor of China, Yao, who reigned
about 2337 years B.C., in order to suppress false prophecies,
miracles, magic, and revelation, commanded his two ministers
of astronomy and religion to cut asunder all communications
between sky and earth, so that, as the chronicle expresses it,
there should be no more of what is called ‘ the lifting up and
coming down.’ ’’
This missionary, Mr. Nevius, further assures us that in the
“ latter part of the Chan dynasty, which continued to 249
B.C., Kwei-Kuh-Sien-sz, applied the Yih-King to the use of
soothsaying, and is regarded as among the fathers of augurs.
During the past and the preceding dynasty, many books have
been written upon this subject, among the most nbted of
which is the Poh-chi-ching-tsung, a work of six volumes on the
“ Source of True Divination.” Here are a few passages from
the preface:—
“ The secret of augury consists in communication with the
gods. The interpretations of the transformations are deep
and mysterious. The theory of the science is most intricate,
the practice of it most important. The sacred classic says,
‘ That which is true gives indications of the future.’ To know
the condition of the dead, and hold with them intelligent
intercourse, as did the ancients, produces a most salutary in¬
fluence upon the parties. . . . But when from intoxication or
feasting or licentious pleasures they proceed to invoke the
gods, what infatuation to suppose that their prayers will move
them ! Often when no response is given, or the interpretation
is not verified, they lay the blame at the door of the augur,
forgetting that their failure is due to their want of sincerity. .
. . It is the great fault of augurs, too, that, from a desire of
gain, they use the art of divination as a trap to ensnare the
people,” &c.
Naturally undemonstrative and secretive, the higher classes of
Chinamen seek to conceal their full knowledge of spirit inter¬
course from foreigners, and from the inferior castes of their
own countrymen, thinking them not sufficiently intelligent to
rightly use it. The lower orders, superstitious and money-
grasping, often prostitute their mediumistic gifts to gain and
fortune-telling. These clairvoyant fortune-tellers, surpassing
wandering gipsies in “ hitting” the past, infest the temples,
streets, and roadsides, promising to find lost property, dis¬
cover precious metals, and reveal the hidden future. What
good thing is not abused ? Liberty lives, though license prowls
abroad in night-time. Christianity wore the laurels it wove,
though Peter denied and Judas betrayed. Spirit-communion
is a reality, and, wisely used, a mighty redemptive power, as
well as a positive demonstration of a future existence.
After a short stay in Cochin China, Mr. Peebles and
Dr. Dunn sailed in the Irrawaddy for Singapore. The
Irrawaddy was a magnificent French steamer. A
garqon on board reminded Dr. Dunn and Mr. Peebles
to appear in a particular dress at certain times of the
day, but as they did not "see the force of practising
artificial habits on board ship, they called the attention
of the commander to this impertinence, which, of course,
was at once stopped.
Mr. Peebles speaks very highly of the island of
Singapore, which is a famous mart for jewellery, and
seems to be a landing-place for the waifs of the world.
They were detained in Singapore for two weeks, wait¬
ing the arrival of the steamer which was to take them
to England. Of the religion of the Malays, Mr. Peebles
says:—
THE RELIGION OE THE MALAYS.
In the thirteenth century, Mohammedan missionaries con¬
verted the Malays in the Straits of Malacca to Islamism, using
persuasion instead of the sword. Their original religion,
however, was entirely different. John Cameron, F.R.G.S.,
assures us that “ such Malays as have embraced none of the
more modern religions believe in some divine personality,
corresponding to God; and in a future life, where good men
enjoy ecstatic bliss, and the wicked suffer purgatorial punish¬
ments.” But “ their religion,” he adds, “ is strangely mixed
up with demonology. They believe that every person is at¬
tended by a good and a bad angel; the latter leading to sick¬
ness, danger, and sin, while the good angel seeks the indi¬
vidual’s health and happiness.” In their “ lives they are in¬
fluenced more by fear than hope.’’ They propitiate the
wicked angel and the evil spirits. It is only at death that
they ask the especial care of their good angel. They stand in
no fear of the transition. Some of their ruins indicate a rela¬
tionship theologically to the sun and serpent worshippers.
In company with the American Consul, Major Studer,
our travellers visited Johore, where they were the guests
of Mr. J. Meldrum, the owner of the largest steam saw¬
mills in Asia: the forests round the town cover about
10,000 square miles.
SPIRITUALISM IN' INDIA.
On the 27th June, 1873, they left Singapore in the
Statesman, under the command of Captain Valiant, for
Calcutta, via, Penang, and had many seances during the
voyage, which are fully recorded. On the 4th of July
they encountered a dreadful storm in the Bay of Bengal,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 5, 1875.
66
in which several ships were wrecked, but the Statesman
escaped, and steamed up the sluggish Hoogly to Cal¬
cutta, where they landed on the 7th of July, the hottest
time of the whole year, and at the beginning of the
rainy season. They put up at the Great Eastern Hotel,
the finest in Calcutta. During their stay in the town,
they visited General Lichfield, the American Consul,
also Keshub Chunder Sen, who Mr. Peebles had pre¬
viously met in England, and who has a friendly dis¬
position towards Spiritualism. At Sekrole, the Euro¬
pean part of the city of Benares, he was the guest
of Dr. Lazarus. At Calcutta he met Baboo Peary
Cfiand Mittra, commission merchant, writer, and
Brahminical Spiritualist; he is also a writing and
seeing medium. He assured Mr. Peebles" that his
deceased wife was as constantly with him at times
as though in the body. He met also Shib Chunder
Deb, a devoted Spiritualist, who has recently published
a book on the subject. Also Mohindro Saul Paul and
Romanath Senx, two highly intelligent young Hindoo
gentlemen connected with the higher castes, and firm
Spiritualists. Mr. Peebles visited Allahabad, the “ City
of God,” a universal resort for pilgrims.
THE KETTJEH JOURNEY,
He travelled from Calcutta to Bombay, across India
by rail, a distance of 1,500 miles. From Bombay he
crossed the Indian Ocean to Aden in the Aretusa,
whose captain was an Austrian Spiritualist, well
read in the works of Allan Ear dec. They sailed up
the Bed Sea and landed at Suez, from which place they
proceeded to Cairo, a distance of about 150 miles
across a vast plain of sand. They visited.the catacombs,
and the pyramids and had a seance at the [top of the
Great Pyramid, particulars of which have already been
recorded in these pages.
During their stay in Cairo they put up at the
Oriental Hotel, which is kept by the husband of Madame
Blavatsky. Madame Blavatsky, assisted by others,
formed a society of Spiritualists in Cairo in the year
1870. Shortly after the visit of Mr. Peebles to Cairo,
she left for Odessa, and afterwards went to America,
where she witnessed the manifestations through the
Eddy brothers and others, as we have already published.
Mr. Peebles left Cairo for Alexandria and sailed in
the Austrian steamer for Jaffa, the Joppa of the New
Testament. He next spent some time in the Holy
Land. He visited Bamleh, said by St. Jerome to be
the Arimathea of Joseph. He travelled through the
Judean country and visited Jerusalem, where of course he
examined all the places of interest. After a night’s rest
upon Mount Zion he went to Mar Saba and the Dead
Sea, in the bitter waters of which he bathed. On his
way home he visited Rhodes and Cyprus, also Smyrna,
in which place he found a number of prominent Spirit¬
ualists, including Mr. C. Constant and Mr. E. H. Rossi.'
He says that Mr. Constant has a palatial residence, in
front of which is a bfeautiful garden, fringed with fig,
lemon, and orange trees. Here the travellers were
warmly received, and treated to Turkish coffee, fruits,
and delicious preserves, in accordance with Oriental
custom. They next visited Ephesus, and saw the
shafts which Mr. J. T. Wood was sinking between
Prion and St. John’s Church in search of the Temple
of Diana of the Ephesians.
They ' afterwards sailed up the Dardanelles, and
visited Constantinople. Of Spiritualism in Turkey he
says :
SPIRITUALISM IN TURKEY.
There are excellent mediums and many Spiritualists in Con¬
stantinople. During the winter season they hold regular
circles in Pera, the European part of the city. Writing and
trance are the usual forms of manifestation. These spirits,
with a few exceptions, teach reincarnation. Invited, we
addressed the Spiritualists in the hall of the Chambre de
Commerce. The attention they gave, and the interest they
manifested, were truly inspiring.
The Hon. John P. Brown, connected with the legation, and
a thirty-years’ resident of Turkey, I found to be a firm
Spiritualist. In a letter written to the Universe he said:—
“ Many Moslems also fully believe in a power or faculty of
the spirit of man to see, behold, or have an intuitive perception
of, things invisible by the ordinary organs of sight. This as¬
sertion they sustain by the frequent examples of individuals
having the most correct and exact knowledge of events
occurring at a vast distance from them—of visions in which
they behold, like pictures passing before their eyes, scenes of
which they have never had any previous knowledge or percep¬
tion. . . . These Turkish Spiritualists are always people of
well-known purity and virtue, animated with the highest
degree of benevolence, and deeply interested in the spiritual
welfare of others. This belief is often acted upon and exer¬
cised in such a manner by others as to lead some persons to
suppose that Spiritualism and animal magnetism are one and
the same thing; for the pious Moslem believes that he can
effect cures, or at least give relief from bodily sufferings, by
prayer, and the imposing of his hands on the invalid.”
Next they visited Athens and the Acropolis, also the
prison cave in which the ancient Greeks confined the
great Spiritualist, Socrates. From Athens they went to
Naples, where they met Signor Damiani, after which
they went to Rome and Florence. Outside Florence,
under the cypress-trees shading a plain brown marble
monument, reposes all that is mortal of. one whose
name lives not only in America, but in all enlightened
lands. This slab has upon it only these words:,
“ Theodore Parker, born at Lexington, Mass., U.S.A.,
Aug. 24th, 1810. Died at Florence, May 10th, 1860.”
Close by is the monument of Elizabeth Barrett Brown¬
ing, with simply the plain initials, E. B. B., with the
following lines:—
“ A stone above my heart and head,
But no name written on the stone.”
At Florence Mr. Peebles met Girolamo Parisi, the
editor and publisher of the Spiritual periodical Aurora.
He also met Baron Kirkup, who has been a Spiritualist
for more than twenty years, and has never shrunk
from the frank avowal of his principles; he has a large
library of books treating of magic, and the unsyste¬
matised philosophy of the mystics. The Baron is a
practical mesmerist, and his daughter is the principal
medium he consults. Mr. Peebles says our poet Long¬
fellow attended a seance at Baron Kirkup’s residence,
and avowed himself a believer in the present ministry
of angels.
From Florence they went to Trieste, Austria, and
called upon Leon Favre, the Consul-General of France,
who is a devoted Spiritualist, but unfortunately he was
absent at the time. Captain Richard Burton was then
the British Consul at Trieste, and Mr. Peebles says of
him, “ So far as the captain has any religious bias, it is
towards Spiritualism.”
From Trieste he went to Venioe, thence to Milan,
thence through the Mont Cenis tunnel to Paris, where
he examined the havoc made during the late war.
From Paris he came to London, where we had the
pleasure of meeting both himself and Dr. Dunn, who
looked tired and jaded with their travels; and after a
few days’ stay in London they sailed for New York via
Liverpool.
The book, as already has been said, is unique; it is
Feb. 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
67
more adapted to the American than the English mind,
being full of exclamatory and poetical passages, and
containing not much in the way of statistics and dates.
Had Mr. Peebles given statistical information about the
number of Spiritualists residing in the different towns
he visited in Australia and New Zealand, had he put
on record the respective ages and numerical strength
of the local societies, and above all, had he recorded
all that he could see or discover about psycho¬
logical phenomena among savage races now fast dying
out, the book would have been of more historical value,
so that in future years any person travelling over the
same ground would have been able to chronicle the
changes which had taken place since the first record
was made. However, the book is exceedingly interest¬
ing, and will be as much valued by friends of Mr.
Peebles in the Old World as it is by those in the New.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN AUSTRIA.
BY THE BAEONESS ADELMA VAY.
Ox the occasion of a brief visit from my cousin,
Count Wurmbrand, who was very anxious to witness
something in the way of spirit manifestations, Mrs.
Pucher, the medium of whom I wrote in my previous
communication, was again invited to our house, and
sat four evenings for materialisations. The extemporised
cabinet previously described was again brought into requi¬
sition, and each evening we had the appearance of the
lights, which increased constantly in distinctness and
interest throughout the seance. No full spirit form
appeared, as in the former manifestations; but several
times the moving light, which was always well defined
and came out quite beyond the edge of the door, would
elongate as if taking the form of an arm, and if
beckoned to, without a word spoken, would respond
at once, and brighten as if with delight. When it
was asked to move up or down, or outwards, it always
suited the action to the word, one time moving a foot
or more beyond the edge of the door, leaving the inter¬
vening space quite dark. The last evening, during
the whole of which the light was unusually bright and
distinct, I asked it to show how rapidly spirits moved
in the universe, and it passed immediately, almost as a
flash, from the bottom to the top of the door in full
view of all present. Each evening during the mani¬
festations my cousin sat not more than six feet from
the opening,-and the other observers present were but
little farther away, and one or two could look quite
into the cabinet. The space within was so small that
the slightest movement of the medium was audible.
She, however, as before, was quite unconscious during
the manifestations, and saw not a single light the whole
time.
We are* deeply interested in the results thus far
obtained, and look eagerly for more remarkable to
follow as the development of the medium proceeds.
Baroness Adelma Yay
Baron Yay (Captain).
Gonobitz, Jan. 19th, 1875.
A new edition of the useful little book Where are the
Dead ? has just been issued.
Mil. Wallace, one of the oldest mediums in this
country, is in want of, and well deserves, aid, and we are
Very pleased to hear from Mr. Haxby that steps are being
taken to assist him, but have not received any letters or
specific information what those steps may be.
PEARLS AT SEANCES.
A month or two ago a description was published in these
pages, of a seance held at the house of Dr. Speer, of Alexandra-
road, St. John’s-wood, and particulars were given of the man¬
ner in which, through the mediumship of a gentleman in pri¬
vate life, pearls, corals, and precious stones of various kinds,
were brought by the spirits. They fall both in broad daylight
and gas-light; frequently they drop one by one on the table
while he is at dinner. He has noticed that some motion on
his part tends to promote their falling; the force used by
the spirits in producing many of’their physical manifestations
is drawn chiefly from the head, hands and feet, consequently
when he suddenly moves his hand or his head, corals or pearls
are more apt to drop then than at other times. We have
seen them drop upon the table in daylight, and once saw a
little piece of coral drop upon a book which he was holding
in his hands in the garden ; the piece of coral rolled off and
fell upon the gravel. Although we looked for it, and could
not find it, he, after a pause, stooped down and picked it up,
being able to detect it under such difficult conditions, in con¬
sequence, probably, of the spirits who had brought it in¬
fluencing his actions, since the piece was so minute that it
might easily have escaped the notice of an eye placed a
short distance from the ground. He has also noticed that
sometimes when he attempts to pick up a pearl or piece of
coral the instant it has fallen, it disappears, it being necessary
for a short period to elapse before it becomes permanent.
This particular kind of mediumship has been possessed
by a lady in private life for many years, as is well known to
many of those who have had the pleasure of frequently at¬
tending the seances held at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square. The medium
now under notice also unfortunately has objections to the
publication of her name; she will, however, be readily
identified by many London Spiritualists by what has been
just said. This lady also has noticed that the stones have a
tendency to disappear if she touches them the moment after
they fall, and she says that sometimes they did not appear to
fall at all, but presented themselves just as if they had come
wp through the wood or cloth of the table.
Mrs. Gregory had a seance with this lady recently, and tells
us that the medium saw her husband and son standing near
her, and they said that they would bring her a gift to show
that they were united in their efforts to guide and help her.
They then said in relation to some home troubles, “Lessons
of life are given and taken in a household.” Then a large
pearl to which a small pearl was attached fell upon the table,
the one being intended to represent the father, and the baby-
pearl the son. This message was then given—“Remember,
dear mother, that of pearl is the gate through which you will
enter.into the city of the Lord. Sorrow and suffering are the
stepping-stones which bridge the path from earth-life to this
gate. Good night, dear mother; the good work progresses,
and the reign of righteousness for which you have worked so
hard is near.”
Mr. Morse in America.—A Report in the Boston Daily
Globe, of Jan. 11th, and a complimentary paragraph in the
Boston Herald of the same date, show that Mr. Morse is getting
on well in America, and that his trance addresses are giving
general satisfaction, two circumstances which all his friends
in this country will be glad to hear. The Spiritual Scientist, of
January 14th, published in Boston, puts the following sen¬
tences into his mouth as having been given under inspiration:
—“The phenomena of materialisation is only to be understood
in the light of the experiments of John Dalton, of Manchester,
England. This celebrated chemist placed on record the ultimate
condition of an atom, having by strict analysis resolved it into
an intangible, seeming nonentity.” Whether the spirits, the
organism of the medium, or the reporter, were at fault in the
evolution of the information just quoted, there is no evidence
to show, but “ phenomena ” being a plural word, requires to be
followed by the word “ are,” and not by the word “ is; ”
Dalton, instead of resolving atoms into nonentities, was the
first to determine their actual weight, and to place them upon
a more substantial footing in the realm of physics than they
ever held before. It is a curious fact that no new revelation of
the slightest value to physical science has ever been made in
the domain of physics by trance mediumship ; indeed, trance
utterances usually display want of knowledge of the whole
subject. These remarks do not apply to Mr. Morse’s medium-
ship in particular, but are true of trance revelations all the
world over, so far as we know.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 5, 1875.
CONDITIONS INFLUENCING SPIRITUAL MANI¬
FESTATIONS.
A few weeks ago, an account was published in these pages
of a seance held at the house of Mr. Stanhope Templeman
Speer, M.D. (Edin.), at which some manifestations took place
through the mediumship of a gentleman in private life, who
does not wish his name to be published. Those manifesta¬
tions included direct spirit music, scented breezes sweeping
round the room, spirit lights, raps, and other physical pheno¬
mena, after which the medium was entranced and delivered
the following address, for which we were unable to find space
in the former narrative :—
The conditions which concern the manifestation of spirits
upon the plane of matter are well worthy of your serious con¬
sideration. We are not able to command the conditions
which enable us to manifest. It is frequently alleged against
us, that that which occurs readily on one occasion does not
occur on another; that when persons have been invited to
tabulate them they do not occur, and so discredit has been
thrown upon us. It is not rightly so, for many things inter¬
fere. The atmospheric conditions of the past few'days have
prevented us from acting with precision, and in circles like
our own we have decided that nothing should be done, rather
than we should do them with inaccuracy. It is plain that the
conditions which we have here cannot exist in public circles,
where many persons are gathered together for the purpose of
witnessing manifestations; there something is done, and done
imperfectly. Moreover, no proper care is taken that circles
should be properly formed; they are formed at haphazard
as regards the elements, which are as important to us as the
purity of the substances used in the most delicate experiments
is to the chemist. New elements demand careful experiment
on our side to meet the altered conditions, but our friends
usually make no allowance for that; they are attempted, and
our manifestations are annulled; then the charge falls upon
us instead of upon their ignorance of the conditions which
alone can command success. Circles are formed for amuse¬
ment, and friends meet at a time when they have nothing
better to do; they ask curious questions, or seek for curious
manifestations; this spirit of idle curiosity draws about
them influences of the lowest kind, frivolous manifestations
are the result, messages false and deceptive, and these things
are again charged upon us. It is not we, but they who are to
blame, for they place us in an atmosphere in which it is im¬
possible for us to operate. To-night we meet in a room
charged with essences. It would be well that friends should
recognise the fact that it is necessary that atmospheric con¬
ditions should be provided, that a circle should never meet in
any room which has been used for at least two hours previously,
and they should remedy atmospheric difficulties by the use of
perfumes, although these do not give the pure atmosphere we
desire. Manifestations can be best given in a room set
apart for our work. They were wise who in old days separated
their mediums from the external world, and kept seance rooms
free from external influence. In your life it is impossible to
do this, but the nearer you can give us these conditions the
better.
Manifestations are possible and probable in proportion as
certain conditions are rigorously kept in view. In the forma¬
tion and in the meeting of circles, men are only too apt to
forget that which does not come frequently within their notice,
and the formation of circles is the largest element in the
success of spiritual manifestations, Circles must be formed
of congenial persons, and separated from inharmonious ele¬
ments ; the higher manifestations can only be given where
there are the higher conditions. The higher possibilities of
spiritual intercourse are largely repressed by the want of re¬
ceptivity of those who seek communion with those of the
world of spirits, and who err greatly by attributing too much
importance to objective and material manifestations; they
should seek after higher developments of spirit power. We
know well the value of that which meets the objective senses,
and is thus brought to the level of scientific fact; but within
what meets your senses, there is a higher spiritual meaning,
a diviner verity. We do not say you should do away with
that which is objective any more than neglect the body;
within that and beyond that there is the real, the true, the
eternal, of which what you grasp by your senses is the ex¬
ternal and the low. We pray and desire with earnest longing
that those of our friends who seek after truth may be led and
educated to the spiritual essence, the real, the true, and the
eternal, which may not be realisable by the human sense, but
is the only reality of the spiritual sense.
You have now the development of one of the highest forms
of spiritual manifestation; some of the richest and purest
teaching ever vouchsafed to man is now in your midst, yet the
medium was but a short time ago, merely a channel for the
vaguest and most indistinct utterances from the spirit land;
the influences which then surrounded her were of the worst.
Afterwards she was isolated, purer and more intellectual
influences surrounded her, and the consequence has been that
spirits utterly unable to operate before are now developing a
mass of teaching which all may read with improvement. In
a parable such as that, you will read the whole story of spirit
influence upon man. In proportion as you provide us with
influences which we can operate through, we can reveal to you
the secrets of the life unto which you must all enter, but if you
regard us merely as the vehicles of some force which may be
paraded for your amusement or of something curious which
must be inquired into, you miss the spiritual essence which
underlies our whole mission. We are far from being even
developers of scientific knowledge. We are the spiritual
messengers of the Supreme, sent to instruct you, to give you
fuller knowledge of Him and of your own destiny ; to this all
else in our mission is subsidiary. If you will gather up the
crumbs of knowledge we are able to show you, you may in
the end gain a plane of intelligence, a knowledge of spiritual
things, and of the life hereafter, of which, when you enter, you
will find the use and benefit. We are not the aimless creatures
man has imagined us to be, for he has showered upon us the
faults inherent in himself. The vagueness is not ours, but
springs from those whose thoughts are on the material plane.
We claim something beyond and beside the material, some¬
thing essentially spiritual, which no human science can tabu¬
late and record, but which the human soul may assimilate,
and which may bear fruit when human knowledge and science
alike have passed.
It is not well that we should tax further the power which
has been used to the very end; although we have much we
wish to say, we refrain from further utterance, but we would
implore the Giver of all blessings and the Father of Light, to
bless and illumine your souls with the light of His wisdom,
and with the blessings of His grace, so that you may bring
forth fruit unto perfection. May the blessing of the Supreme
rest upon you!
ELECTRICITY IN THE BODY.
Statements are sometimes made that electricity is given
out from the hands and other parts of the human body, but
the experiments of Mr. Yarley and others with exquisitely
delicate apparatus tend to show that this is not the case; there
is, however, plenty of electricity at work inside the body,
in closed circuits in the nerves and muscles, and the presence
of these extremely feeble currents, is made evident by the
same apparatus which shows that none is thrown off to
an appreciable extent from the body itself. When friction is
applied to the outside of the body, electrical phenomena are
sometimes produced, on the same principle that electricity is
obtainedvfrom a frictional electrical machine; for instance,
very dry hair often becomes electrical by the friction against
it of the teeth of an india-rubber comb. Sometimes when the
skin is dry, and a flannel shirt or other large garment is rapidly
pulled off it, the friction will produce electrical disturbance;
and in cold and very dry atmospheres, such as are sometimes
foundin certain parts of America, the friction of the boots against
a dry carpet will generate so much electricity, that the gas can
be lit by a spark from the finger held near the gas-jet. These
facts are due simply to friction, and the most powerful
electrical apparatus in the world, such as will kill an ox with
a single spark, will not move a table a single inch under those
conditions which cause tables to move at spirit circles.
In the course of the Christmas lectures recently delivered at
the Royal Institution, Dr. J. H. Gladstone explained that
weak currents of electricity are often present where they are
least suspected; for instance, if a silver fork be held in one
hand, and a finger of the other hand should touch the steel
part of the knife which it holds, two dissimilar metals are
connected by the intervening human body; consequently,
directly the knife and fork are plunged into any liquid which
acts chemically, a weak electrical current is produced, which
flows through the body. Thus, when the knife and fork are
plunged into a beef steak, the gravy of the steak acts feebly
upon the iron of the knife, so a weak electrical current is pro-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
Feb. 5, 1875.'
duced, which flows through the body of the eater. To show
that this was actually the case, Dr. Gladstone connected a
knife and fork with a reflecting galvanometer by means of
wires, then when he plunged them into a beef steak; the weak
electrical current produced deflected the needle of the galva¬
nometer, so that the reflected circle of light thrown by the
mirror was seen to travel for a yard or two along the white
screen in the theatre of the Royal Institution. Thus the
effects of the electrical current generated by the knife and
fork and beef steak were made visible to the large body of
listeners.
SPIRITUALISM IH DALSTON.
On Thursday night, last week, the ninth half-yearly general
meeting of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism was held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, Mr.
Alfred E. Lovell, president, in the chair. Among the members
present were Mrs. Theresa Wood, Mr. George Blyton, Mr. and
Mrs. T. Blyton, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr.
A. Ferguson Black, Mr. George, Mr. W. Forbes Playfair, Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. H. P. Smith, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The half-yearly report of the Council was read by the secre¬
tary ; it congratulated the Association on the continued
prosperity which had attended the work of the society during
the past six months. It set forth that at the weekly seances
some very good manifestations had been obtained, through the
mediumship of Mrs. Lovell, Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Parkes, Mr.
James Webster, Miss Keeves, and Mrs. Bassett. The report
said that Mr. Parkes was controlled by several distinct
spirits, the individuality of each of whom was most marked ;
very good tests of spirit identity were given through Mr.
Webster; and satisfactory evidence of spirit presence and
communion had been given through the mediumship of Mrs.
Bassett. No members of the Association had resigned during
the past six months, and two new members had been added.
Donations to the society, or presents of books had been made
by Mr. William Oxley, Mr. Charles Blackburn, and Mr. Henry
M. Dunphy. The value of the books in the library had been
assessed by Mr. T. Wilkes and Mr. G. R. Tapp, but whether
they assessed them at their first cost, or at the amount
they would fetch if now sold, was not stated. The accounts
of the last half-year had been audited by Mr. G. R. Tapp and
Mr. T. Blyton; the statement of account showed a balance of
£2 10s. 3Jd. cash in hand, after paying all the expenses of the
year 1874. The Council recommended that Rule 7 should be
amended, and that payment of periodical subscriptions from
honorary members should not be compulsory in future.
The adoption of the report was moved by Mr. Playfair, and
seconded by Mrs. Theresa Wood.
Mr. G. Blyton moved an amendment to the effect that the
report should express no opinion about disembodied spirits
having communicated at the seances.
Mr. T. Blyton said that he was opposed to his brother’s
amendment, but would second it for the sake of giving rise to
a discussion.
The report was however adopted in its entirety.
Mr. A. M. Greene resigned office as honorary secretary, and
enclosed a subscription of £2 2s. towards the funds of the
Association.
Regret was expressed that Mr. Greene should have been
obliged by circumstances beyond his control to resign office,
and a vote of thanks was awarded to him by the members and
Council.
Mr. A. E. Lovell resigned the office of president, because he
resided at such a distance from the place of meeting, and be¬
cause the office brought him more prominence than he desired,
although he by no means feared publicity.
After the warm thanks of the society had been given to
Mr. Lovell, Mr. Playfair moved that the Council should be
authorised to invite Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., one of the
honorary members of the society, to accept the office of presi¬
dent of the Association.
Mr. T. Blyton seconded this; he thought that from Mr.
Jencken’s great experience in Spiritualism, he would make an
excellent and popular president. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Tapp said that in the absence of their president, in
consequence of his residence at a distance, there was never
any difficulty in finding a member to occupy the chair at
meetings, pro tem.
The motion was passed unanimously.
Mr. Lovell was then elected a member of the Council in
place of Mr. George Blyton^who resigned.
The election of a new secretary was referred to the Council
at its next meeting. The alterations in Rule 7, recommended
in the report of the Council, were then proposed to be made,
to the effect that any subscription on the part of honorary
members should be optional. This, was proposed by Mr. T.
Blyton, and seconded by Mr. Playfair.
Mr. Tapp moved that the rule stand as at present, because
the Association could not afford to lose any subscriptions, and
because he found that the National Association of Spiritualists
had no rule exempting honorary members from contributing
to the funds.
Mr. Harrison said that the adoption of the recommendation
of the Council would put the Dalston Association in the same
position as the National Association in respect to honorary
members, for in the latter case any subscription was optional.
Mr. Blyton said that most of the honorary members joined
the Association to help it, and usually desired to pay a sub¬
scription at first ; but if they were constantly asked for money
afterwards, they would probably resign, since they never
attended the meetings of the society, or derived much benefit
from its work.
Mr. Tredwen said that they rather honoured the society by
becoming honorary members, therefore should not be asked
to pay for so doing.
Mr. Tapp said that perhaps he had considered the matter
rather hurriedly.
Mr. Tredwen said that many people might do honour to the
society by joining it, who were not moneyed people, and the
rule as it stood had a tendency to exclude them.
Mr. Tapp withdrew his' amendment, so the original motion
was carried.
Mr. George Blyton proposed that the words about any sub¬
scriptions from honorary members being optional should be
left out of the rule, but after some discussion, it was resolved
that the rule should not be further altered.
Mr. T. Blyton proposed that the title of the Association
should be changed to that' of the “ Dalston Society of
Spiritualists.” He added that the society had been investi¬
gating the subject for four years, so it ought to have some
opinion of its own by this time, and should call itself a society
of Spiritualists.
Mr. G. Blyton seconded this, because in the report of the
Council just passed, the society fully .committed itself and the
Association to the Spiritual explanation of the facts.
Mr. Tredwen moved, and Mr. Playfair seconded, that the title
should remain as at present.
Six members voted for the retention of the old title, and
four in favour of the proposed new one.
The meeting then closed with the usual vote of thanks.
Work tor the Imagination.—It appears that Mr.
Holman Hunt’s attention has been called to the fact that in
his picture of “ The Shadow of Death” he has represented the
Saviour as. using his left hand to saw a plank, and he has
written a letter to justify this odd departure from ordinary
usage. It has always been supposed that Mr. Hunt prided
himself as an artist upon his severe realism, but he now
explains that he is not such “ a slave ” to nature and truth as
he has been supposed to be. “To have made the Saviour saw
with his right hand would,” he says, “ have necessitated the
separation of the two figures in the picture by the space re¬
quired for the uninteresting mass of wood, which would thus
have occupied the most precious part of the canvas.” And, in
order to avoid this, “ I had only to trust to the spectator to
imagine that, tired with his labour, the Saviour had stepped
over the plank to approach his mother, or to see her, for the
sun yet had to sink, and, recognising that it was already late
enough to prepare for the evening’s relaxation and duties, that
he had assumed the position which gave the most relief physi¬
cally and mentally before turning to put away his tools.” It
will perhaps be thought that this is leaving a good deal to the
imagination of the spectator, and that the license thus
claimed might be carried to an awkward length. A painter
who could not get a figure into his composition in a natural
way might double it up or turn it upside down, trusting that
the spectator would imagine that the person thus portrayed
was only seeking some momentary relaxation of over-strained
muscle. Mr. Hunt’s apology is at least curious, and reminds
one of the old epitaph about
Mr. Woodhen, the best of men,
to which an explanatory note was attached : “ His name was
Woodcock, but it would not come in rhyme.” An artist who
cannot get the better of a plank without making the rest of
his picture unnatural must, we should have thought, be devoid
of ingenuity.—Pall Mall Gazette.
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ebb. 5, 1875.
THE NATURE OF SPIRIT LIFE.
In the course of Mrs. Tappan’s recent address in the
trance state, at Birmingham, she said:—
You are accustomed to suppose that in order to make a good
appearance in the moral world, your dwelling or habitation,
or surroundings must be of such and such an order. Now, in
spiritual life this is the same, but it chances to be a fact that
the abode of the spirit as well as the garments that it wears,
and the various surroundings that it possesses, are the result
of far different kinds of labour than those employed on earth
to attain them, and that you cannot do it by any recognised
system of fraud upon your neighbour, or by any of the usual
terms called speculation, and business, and training; but that
the entire property of the spirit is the result of his or her
sterling mental and moral qualities : that your spiritual body in
substance must be able to attract to itself particles of beauty
by the amount and intensity of the beauty and light that
is within ; that you cannot cover up the inner darkness with
a robe of splendour, nor shelter the imperfect soul in an,
abode and palace of luxury; that the pauper who is honest
in purpose, and strives to do his best, inherits a home,
while the prince who has lavished no gifts save those robbed
from the poor and the fatherless, is a beggar in spirit-life.
(Applause.) And so inevitably the law is this, that upon
entering spiritual existence you find yourself in precisely
the condition and surroundings that your mental and moral
status call you to, and you find that you have builded your
spiritual habitation, and clothed your spiritual body, either
with a raiment of good thoughts and deeds, or with shadowy
garments of unkindness and corruption. This is not merely a
sentiment, or a flower of speech or of rhetoric, but so
palpable is it that it belongs to the world of legitimate
cause and effect—that the soul attracts those atoms that
beautify and adorn it in exact proportion as it is beautiful,
and can so attract them. The lily, which has within itself the
germ of the flower, absorbs from sun and from air the proper¬
ties that clothe it in whiteness : and the spirit of thought,
and action, and volition draws to itself either the shadowy
vapours of uncertainty and profligate life, or the beautiful
white atoms that glisten in the sunlight of purity and truth.
Between these two stand all souls in their spiritual state,
whether they be embodied or disembodied; and hence, to the
spiritual vision and in the spiritual world, there is no such
thing as the possibility of concealing the real state or condi¬
tion of mind one from the other. The mask that is worn
upon earth is often successful, but even here a clear-sighted
and intuitive observer may see the lines of character, or may
perceive that vice has made its inroads even upon the fairest
physical form; while the spiritual body which is composed of
atoms which respond much more readily to the individual, is
an exact expression of what the individual life has been
within. Yet, were this all, there is no harshness of judgment
there. It is pitiable enough to be deformed upon earth phy¬
sically, and no one sees such an object without saying “ poor
thing.” So in spirit, when the deformed and perverted soul
lays off the garments of earthly splendour' that may have been
a mask, it is enough that the pitying angels say, “ Poor soul,
for behold the consciousness of deformity is its own punish¬
ment.”
The states of spiritual existence, and the employments, we
say, correspond to the innate thought and wish of the indi¬
vidual, and hence the primal object of each spirit is to endea¬
vour to find out the laws that govern his new existence, and
adapt and shape himself to it ; to find by what process these
deformities can be entirely eradicated ; to discover how, if pos¬
sible, the soul may be beautified; and when it has found that
only upon the exhibition of kind actions and thoughts to¬
wards others these blemishes are removed, straightway each
soul has sufficient employment, for no soul enters the spirit
world so perfect as to be without blemish; and this consti¬
tutes an employment from the lowest to the highest, that the
primal work is to rectify the individual errors, to seek for¬
giveness for the individual wrongs. And when the soul finds
that, its structure is marred by some act or deed performed on
earth, there is no rest for that spirit until the sweet thought
of forgiveness comes. If any one has wronged you, see to it
that you make haste to forgive, for you do not know what soul
you may be dragging down by incurring the thought of unfor¬
giveness ; and you do not know what blemish it entails upon
your own soul, since you also wish to be forgiven.
We present to you these stages and thoughts of spirit-life as
the united testimony of those holding daily and hourly con¬
verse with spiritual beings : and as for the babes that go out
from your midst, those blossoms of your own hearts, that you
have wondered where they might be found, remember that so
kind is the Divine Father that in spirit-life these children are
cared for by angel guardians, who take them in their arms, and
bear them to the abodes of such sweet flowers, transplanting
them to the heavenly regions where they may gain wisdom and
knowledge and growth, and meet you as angels when you enter
their abodes. If cut off from earthly experience, they may by
observation and guidance gain spiritual strength ; and such is
the compensation of nature everywhere, that those who are
robbed of earthly experience in their [early life, are deprived
also of much of earthly sorrow; and the babe that welcomes
you will be the smiling angel that has prepared the way before
you to the abode of souls. When all that you have held dear
have gone thither, and when the air is peopled with those
whom you trusted when they were by your side, shall you
hesitate to stretch out your hand in the dark because your
senses are veiled ? Rather say to those that have ever been
kind to you on earth, “ Oh, open these eyes, that they may
be no longer blind, and these ears that they may not be deaf,
and this understanding, that it may not be shadowed, and let
us see the real world that has been only shadowed by earthly
vapours.” (Applause.)
Witchcraft in Devonshire.—A remarkable case of
credulity (our Exeter correspondent writes) came before the
Exeter magistrates to-day (Wednesday). It appeared from
the evidence that a woman named Arthurs, a fortune-teller,
was consulted by another woman on behalf of her son, who
was suffering from some internal complaint. Arthurs pre¬
tended to read fjrom a book the nature of the complaint and
the remedy required. She also went through some mystic
performances with a pack of cards, and said if the young man
did not recover by a certain date he would die. Arthurs gave
the woman some mixture in a bottle, for which she charged
£2, but the invalid did not get better. The mother told
Arthurs that she believed her son had been bewitched, and
believed she was able to effect a cure. The police, however,
got hold of the affair, and arrested Arthurs, who told a police
officer that she had cured “ hundreds of cases, and that she
was very clever in that way.” A witness said she had also
consulted Arthurs, and had recommended the woman in this
case to her. The magistrates sent Arthurs to prison for two
months, and ordered £3 found on her to be kept towards her
maintenance in gaol. By a singular coincidence a witchcraft
case also came before the Newton Abbot Board of Guardians
this morning. A labouring man applied for relief, saying he
had been bewitched, and was unable to work. In reply to the
chairman, the man said he believed in witchcraft. Admiral
Wise, one of the guardians, said there was no doubt the man
believed he was bewitched, and his faith could not be shaken ;
his [illness, however, was no doubt due to an attack of apo¬
plexy. The man was granted relief, and it was suggested that
the police should look after a “ wizard,” who had promised to
cure him.—Pall Mall Gazette.
The Temple of Diana at Ephesus.—Last Saturday
afternoon, Mr. John T. Wood, director of the excavations at
Ephesus, which resulted in discovering the Temple of the
great goddess Diana, gave the first of a series of lectures, at
the Royal Institution, in which he set forth some of the first
results of his work. He told how, in May, 1863, under a
firman from the Turkish Government, he undertook to begin
a series of excavations at Ephesus, at his own expense, under
the auspices of the Trustees of the British Museum. He
spent a long time in examining the ground and in sinking
pits in different places, which pits were visited by Mr. Peebles
and Dr. Dunn, as narrated in another column. Mr. Wood
thus discovered several buried tombs, buildings, and statues,
but not the site of the great Temple of Dia,na. One day he
was accosted by a tall earnest-looking Greek, who said that he
had dreamed a dream, and seen where much treasure was
buried; he had seen a chamber and an underground passage
leading to it; so would Mr. Wood permit him to dig under
the authority of the firman, but at his own cost? Mr. Wood
said that he humoured the man, and the holes that the man
consequently dug were paid for by “ a silly Greek merchant in
Smyrna,” but of course no treasure was found. The dreamer
and his merchant friend tried afterwards to get Mr. Wood to
pay their expenses, but without effect; they next tried threats,
which, said Mr. Wood, were equally ineffectual, for the Greek
had merely asked for permission to dig under the firman. In
this first lecture Mr. Wood merely described his preliminary
work, leaving the account of his greater discoveries for a
future lecture.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
Feb. 5, 1875.
A SPIRITUAL PRAYER.
The following is an invocation, by Mr. J. J. Morse, on the
occasion of a lecture upon Death, at Lincoln Hall, Philadelphia,
Sunday evening, Dec. 13th, 1874:—
Oh! Thou source and fountain of all life; Thou who art
the life of our life, the light of our light, to whom we turn in
the hour of trouble, as in the day of trial; Thou to whom
humanity in all ages hast reared' its shrines, forgetting that
Thou canst be found more truly in the human soul. We draw
near to Thee with the feeble meed of good that we may have
done, for these are the best prayers and offerings that we
can bring to Thee—these alone show how noble and God¬
like is man. We thank Thee, oh! Father, that Thou hast
planted within our souls the ability to gather the ripe
fruits of wisdom, which, if the mind doth digest, will
strengthen and build up the spiritual within us, and make
us more noble and strong for the duties of life, and more fit
to show forth the divinity which thou hast implanted in our
natures. Grant, oh ! Father, that the angels may again
gather near us, and make us stronger, that we may be better
able to march on in the battle of life. Give to all of us that
high courage and moral power to stand up in defence of Thy
truths as revealed within our own souls, and in all the
fields of nature, wherein thy words are plainly written. We
know that as man understands this great volume he
becomes his own priest, and this is the church wherein and
whereby he can most truly worship Thee and fulfil his mission
in this world, and thus prepare himself, by a life of purity and
goodness, to enter into the one beyond, with a conscience
unstained by any sorrowful recollections of deeds done in the
body, never forgetting Thy providence manifested while so¬
journing here, and ever learning thy wisdom and seeing
its power more perfectly displayed, and knowing indeed that
thou art our Father, our Friend, our God.
A Good Test.—Sir Charles Isham has had some leaflets
printed for distribution, containing the account once pub¬
lished in these pages by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester,
setting forth how the latter gentleman passed a thread through
the pierced portion of the ear of Miss, Showers, and brought
the two ends of the thread into the room outside the
cabinet, while the spirits materialised • themselves inside.
The spirits came out without any threads in their ears, which
was proof, either that there was duplication of form, or that
some more than mortal power had freed the medium, who was
afterwards found in the cabinet with the thread through her
ears as at first. This test was afterwards tried by another
gentleman in Newcastle, with another medium, but less effi¬
ciently, for both ends of the thread were not brought outside
the cabinet, so that the question of the possibility of tying and
untying could be raised.
The Illestbated Spiritual Periodical.—More sub¬
scribers are entering their names for the proposed exceedingly
handsome spiritual periodical, which, if published, will be
calculated to exert a beneficial influence on behalf of Spirit¬
ualism. M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburgh, has entered his
name for a large number of copies monthly. An enlarged list
of subscribers will be published shortly. Still, enough sup¬
porters are not likely to be found in Europe to carry out the
idea, so it is intended to make an international journal of it,
by giving space in it also to engravings and articles relating to
Spiritualism in the United States, and by inviting Spiritualists
there to support the journal by taking it regularly. Some
weeks must elapse before the extent to which they will support
the project can be known, because at the present moment
there is so much discouragement there caused by the recent
doings in Philadelphia, that the American spiritual public are
not well prepared to take up anything new, whatever its merits.
Communications about the illustrated spiritual periodical
should be addressed to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 11, Ave Maria-
lane, London, E.C.
The Holmes’s in Philadelphia.—There is still a great
agitation among the Spiritualists of the United States, in
consequence of Mr. Dale Owen and Dr. Child having been
deceived in Philadelphia, by the two professional mediums,
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, who get genuine manifestations, but
mix them with others. Mr. Owen informs us that Colonel
Olcott is now testing the Holmes’s manifestations, and that
the results will be published; it is rumoured that he has
already obtained Materialised faces and hands under test con¬
ditions. There is no doubt - they can get these heads and
hands, since such are always obtainable by mediums who, like
the Holmes’s, get very strong dark circle manifestations, such
as the flying of musical instruments all over a room, while the
hands and feet of the mediums are held by disbelievers.
Extraordinary manifestations can be obtained through the
Holmes’s mediumship, but such will give no evidence that
the Katie King exhibited on their own premises, and in a
peculiarly constructed cabinet, was genuine. As we long ago
pointed out, the mediums are not trustworthy, so no good to
the movement will be done by recognising manifestations.
Passed to the Higher Liee.—At Leipsic, on the 15th
January, about midnight, Wilhelmine Auguste, the beloved
wife of Gregor Constantin Wittig, translator of the articles
from The Spiritualist for Psychic Studies, and of the works of
Andrew Jackson Davis, Dr. Hare, Mr. Wallace and other
English and American writers on Spiritualism, into German.
Mme. Wittig assisted and supported her husband in his
labours for eighteen years, and must therefore rank as one of
the pioneers of the Spiritualistic movement in Germany.
She leaves three daughters, aged seventeen, fifteen and
thirteen years.
The National Association oe Spiritualists.—At the
meeting of the Council of the National Association next
Monday, the subject of taking offices and establishing a public
reading-room will have to be seriously considered, the desire
being to achieve this result at the smallest possible expense
consistent with efficiency, the Association being young and not
so rich in funds as it probably will be in years to come. The
members might make the question of taking offices a very easy
one, by bringing in a large number of new members, for the
accumulation of additional small subscriptions will amount to
a large sum in the aggregate, so that great things could then
be done without any particular burden of expense falling upon
anybody. This is one of the chief advantages of organisation
and of united action.
The Last Witches Executed in England.—The fol -
lowing brief notice of the last persons who suffered from witch¬
craft in these kingdoms is curious. In 1698, a girl nineteen
years of age, having eaten a leaf of sorrel, which she got from
a reputed witch, fell into convulsions and vomiting. She is
said to have vomited needles, pins, feathers, an iron knife a
span long, and egg shells. The accused was immediately com¬
mitted to the county gaol, and at the assizes held soon after,
was hanged and burned. In 1722, at Dornock, Sutherland,
an old woman was accused of being a witch. Her crime
was transforming her daughter into a pony, and getting her
shod by the devil, of which crime she was found guilty,
and burned. The Act against witchcraft was repealed in
England and Scotland about 1750; but not in Ireland until
1821.—Banner of Light.
Pine’s “ Spiritual Telegraph.”—A correspondent has
written to us from Brixton, expressing the opinion that Mr.
Pine’s book, The Spiritual Telegraph (E. W. Allen), had better
never have been published, in which opinion we agree, for the
book is not calculated to do good to the Spiritual movement.
It has been previously pointed out in these pages, that Pine’s
telegraph itself is not so good as Professor Hare’s, because
in the latter case the indices and letters were out of sight of
the medium, also that instruments of a very similar kind to
Mr. Pine’s have been previously used in this country. The
teachings in the book savour of materialism, and spirits might
have better employed their time than to return to earth by
thousands to give elementary ideas about social problems.
Pages 113 and 114 are almost entirely filled by a description
of the causes of the changes of the seasons; it is explained
how the inclination of the earth’s axis to the plane of its
orbit is the cause of spring, summer, autumn, and winter in
northern and southern latitudes. This elementary fact in
astronomy every person of moderate intelligence ought to
know, and is necessarily as familiar to the young astronomer
as the alphabet is to the child just able to spell. Among the
slides sold by optical instrument makers for use in magic
lanterns for the information of children, one of the cheapest
and commonest is that which represents the cause of the
change of the seasons, yet Mr. Pine publishes that 1,999
spirits were present to see this information given to him by
his telegraph. How many spirits would have attended if
some intelligent shade resolved to inform him by his telegraph
that two and two make four ? Some of the spirits have
informed him how “ pie ” trees grow in the spirit land.
Although we think the book calculated to prejudice inquirers
of culture and education against Spiritualism, it contains
internal evidence that the author thinks differently, and that
the book is issued in all sincerity on his part, but the' adver¬
tisements give exaggerated ideas as to the value of its contents.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 5, 1875.
OUB ANGEL-KINDRED.
The follo'wing is one of several beautiful poems, by the late Mr. William
Leighton, of Liverpool, contained in a nea< little book just published by
Messrs. Longmans, entitled Baby Died To-day, and Other Poems:—
Par in the glories of a fadeless day,
Amid excess of beauty, and the swell
Of rich and everlasting melody,
Our angel-kindred dwell.
No care can reach them in their radiant home ;
No night can trail its terror o’er their skies ;
No sin can cast around its baleful gloom;
No tears can dim their eyes.
Immortal pleasures crowd the golden hours ;
Undreamed-of baauty basks on every hand ;
And odorous breathings from the lips of flowers
Pill all the peaceful land.
Alfa bright forms mingling in the holy mirth,
Pure white-robed dwellers on the blissful shore,
' Our kindred are,—the loved and lost of earth—
The happy ‘ gone before! ’
Among them cherub shapes of childhood glide;
Maidens are there with waving locks of gold;
And manhood in its glory and its pride,
And age no longer old!
And he, the last that left us, whose young life—
By laughing, promise-laden breezes driven—
Disdained to meet the rude world’s noisy strife
And sought the calm of Heaven,—
I dream I see.him in his radiant rest,
Among his angel-kipdred up on high,
And honoured as befits the latest guest
They welcome to the sky.
Brethren on ministering missions move,
Or guide him where’er Heaven’s rich marvels rise,
And sifters look unutterable love
Into his answering eyes.
Ah, blessed spirits in their balmy ease!
No cross of earth can ever chafe them now!
For them no more the trembling hands and knees,
Nor doubt-beclouded brow!
Ours is the darkness ; theirs the boundless day ;
They drink true life; we draw the laboured breath;
They have eternal sunshine on their way;
We have the gloom of death.
Yet, nearing the cold river, I rejoice
That when I pass its darkness and its roar,
All these will welcome me with heart and voice
Upon the further shore.
CEomsponTience,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of chis journal and itsreaders.']
THE PHILADELPHIA SEANCES.
Sir,—Spiritualism has very much to contend against, and,
spite of the many converts, it is spreading more slowly than
it ought to do were the opposition it meets from prejudice and
misrepresentation a little less strong. But of all the enemies
which assail the claims of Spiritualism there are none to be
compared to those which occasionally crop up inside the
movement itself, as witness the damage to the cause just
effected by the Holmes family. I do not mean to insinuate
that these mediums are thorough cheats, possessing no me-
diumistic power whatever. It is likely enough that they are
really mediums, but unable to exhibit the wonderful mani¬
festations which characterise the seances of such as Mr.
Williams, and because of the advantage which such mani¬
festations brought them, they were unhappily tempted to
simulate them. But this slip in morals, now and again oc¬
curring amongst the professors of Spiritualism, works sad
havoc amongst those who are examining and inquiring into
the subject. Many who are disposed to know more than the
first scrap of intelligence brought them regarding the wonder¬
ful things constantly happening, are driven away by such
malpractices as the Holmes’s are guilty of. It is a great
wrong inflicted upon two classes, those inside and those
outside, weakening the former, and preventing the latter from
seeking information, and throwing a strong shadow of distrust
over the whole matter. But in the present state of imperfec¬
tion, it is difficult to see that these evils can be entirely pre¬
vented.
However, they may be largely reduced, and though I must
certainly differ with Mr. Serjeant Oox, who writes in your
issue of the 15th inst. regarding some of his suggested
methods of testing the reality of phenomena, yet he has
cause to remark upon the want of caution exhibited by Mr.
R. Dale Owen, who, had he been a little more exacting, would
have saved the movement from this shock in which he is so
intimately concerned. I had the utmost confidence in Mr.
Owen’s desire to chronicle only real phenomena, and his
determination to be “ scrupulous in demanding fair condi¬
tions,” but he has somehow in this case allowed his accus¬
tomed care to relax. Doubtless he has been imposed upon
latterly by granting confidence in persons who did not deceive
him to begin with. Let his lesson be a warning to all of us.
The same thing should not happen again because of its im¬
possibility.
But while we take all legitimate precautions against impo¬
sition—and honest mediums will not object to them—let us
be honourable in our conduct while demanding tests of
genuineness. It is not necessary, for example, to grasp sud¬
denly anything in the shape of a materialisation. That might
do much harm to those engaged. A better plan would be
courteously to ask for satisfaction and conviction by being
allowed to see both medium and form at one time. This
request is frequently granted. If it is refused, there is
nothing for it but to submit; but there are cither tests, and
equally severe ones. For example, at a seance lately, the
medium was roughly sewed into his clothes, so that it was
impossible for him to take them off without detection.
Another case: a heavy set of clanking fetters were locked
upon the limbs, and yet the manifestations took place. As
Mr. Serjeant Cox says, there are “ fifty other tests equally easy
and conclusive,” and infinitely to be preferred to the grasping
he recommends, or the squirting of coloured matter upon the
*' form.” To prevent the possibility of persons other than the
medium personating materialisations, a thorough examination
of the room must be made.
There is a point in this Philadelphia Katie King exposure
which I should like to see noticed, and therefore refer to it
here. In a late number of The Spiritualist, the London Katie
King, in answer to some question, said that Mr. Dale Owen
was deceived, but not altogether, or words to that effect. Now
he has been altogether deceived. The Katie King was an
impostor in flesh and blood. I understood the English Katie to
mean that it was a spirit, though not the one it represented
itself to be. But spirits, I presume, are not above mistakes.
Was it a mistake ? What does Katie say ? M.
Bonnington.
[We have little sympathy with the general purport of this letter,
by a writer who—contrary to custom—has not favoured us with
his name. If Philadelphian mediums, condemned by us in this
journal long ago, as unreliable, afterwards impose on the unwary,
it is no reason why respectable mediums in private life should be
roped or chained to satisfy individuals in whose opinions, or pre¬
sence or absence at the seances, they feel little interest. There are
good mediums like Mrs. Fay and Mr. Williams, who give mani¬
festations under test conditions, which materialists and persons
who cannot appreciate honour or integrity, and cannot see why
these two conditions should interfere in the production of physical
results—cannot explain. But to rope and chain all media to meet
undeveloped conditions of mind means that the development of
the higher phenomena shall be checked, and that afew manifestations
shall be constantly produced with precision, under inexplicable con¬
ditions, to please people upon whose lives they afterwards produce little
better moral or religious effect than clever conjuring, which is a
sorry result! Spiritualism is something higher than this, and
after it thus produces something to meet the elementary wants of
elementary thinkers, the latter have no right to demand that all
media shall be subjected to their conditions, or that they shall be
allowed to see' manifestations intended only for people of honour,
who really possess friends on whom they can rely, who do not
wish personal integrity to be a myth, and who believe in things
which they cannot bite between their teeth. Other inquirers than
materialists have religious and mental wants to be satisfied, and
they have an equal right to manifestations which shall meet their
requirements.—Ed.]
OSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.31), service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year's Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived aad invites inspection. Mrs. 0. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Feb. 5, 1875.
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, -whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and. America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Yernon-place,
Bloomshury-squaro, W.C.,
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
"RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. Gr. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms
n application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
f-r . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Beigrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
ESSRS. HARRY BASTIAN AND MALCOLM
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2. Vernon place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Galder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holdei’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fvz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-sqnare, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C
Ramsay, Mrs.,46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Huteheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, l^, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, BA., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice,D.D , 44,Netherwood-rd., WcatKensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, V» _
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraoe, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street,'Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-sqnare, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Klslimgbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, . Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. J ohn’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, SW.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &e.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd,, J., 29, Everton-crescent. Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
I Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
‘ESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
iStearaces (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
IRANCE MEDIUMSHTP FOR FAMILY BUSINESS
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. fid. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOCK OF HAIR!!!
‘R. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare" and the Indian Chief “Blackhawk
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. fid., by post office ord^r on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brothertoo. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
elling, G. F., Gamden-vilia, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex. .
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cen’ral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald!, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-sLeet, Buckiugham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
| Miss Kislinghury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Seer eta-y (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emil a de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pet,th.
~he Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat. the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
M Peebles, Esq., Hammontoo, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spirvualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriaton, Paris.
Babco Pearycband Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richards'n, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Austi alia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Cbinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Borne, Paris
M. Ley marie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, "Wurzburg, Bavaria.]
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 5, .1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace 8. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; 'Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq.,-Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just'large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one, of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are.produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to gfet the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will tfi’en be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A' powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy ; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from, the lower mental, influences of earth.
Family circles, with ho strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may'inake their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869. ■
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (In,dia); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies; D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Mies A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
X SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were'
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest,’ received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial (paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also .the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W.C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2jd. Published on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
’ Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
