AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
. • rEEQISTEEED FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 174.—(Yoii.YII.—No. 26.) LONDON: DECEMBER 24,1875. Published Weekly; Trice Twopence.
arontents.
The Psychological Society pn the Fundamental Nature of Matter ...
The Development of Eeligions Thought among Spiritualists...  
The Travelling of the Spirit during the Life of the Body  
The Psychological Society of -Great Britain:—The Nature of the Soul
—A Brahmin on the Immortality of the Soul—Professor Agassiz
under Mesmeric Influence 
Dr. Child, of Philadelphia...  
The Whitechapel Murder Eevealed by Spirits:—Messages given by
the Spirit of Harriet Lane—An Extraordinary Case of Mesmerism
Is Spiritualism a Eeligion ? By Epes Sargent 
Transactions of the National Association of Spiritualists:—Winter
Meetings—Spirit Photography.   ...
Poetry:—Music at the Gates. A Funeral for Spiritualists. By John T.
Markley       
Correspondence:—Cities in the Spirit Land—Mrs. J.W. Jackson’s
Case—A Correction—Speculations on Eeincarnation  
The Holmeses’ Seances in America 
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris ... ... ... ... - 
Paragraph:— National Association Monthly Conversaziones  
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Eooms, IS, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
THE COUNCIL have much pleasure in announcing to
the MEMBEES and METEOPOLITAN SPIRITUALISTS generally
that, in response to the desire of numerous friends, they have made
arrangements for a
NEW YEAR’S GATHERING,
In the form of a
CONYERSAZIONE AND BALL,
To be held at the
CAVENDISH EOOMS (71, Mortimer-street, Begent-street, W.),
ON
WEDNESDAY EVENING, THE 5th JANUARY, 1876.
The proceedings of the Conversazione will be presided over by the
President of the Association,
HENEY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.E.I. (Barrister-at-law),
Who Will take the chair at 7 o’clock.
The following friends have kindly volunteered their services in connection
with the CONVEESAZIONE:—Madame Oury, Miss Sexton, and Messrs.
J. A. Bear, G. Sexton, jun., Herbert J. Derham, C. Derham, E. Parkinson
Ashton, F. M. Sexton, and Mr. A. G. Ogan.
THE BALL
Will be opened at 9.30 o’clock. The following gentlemen will act as M.O’s.;—
E. PAEKINSON ASHION, AND AETHUE MALTBY, ESQS.
An efficient BAND will be in attendance.
The Doors will be opened at half-past six o’clock.
Admission by tickets as under: Single ticket, 2s.; Double ditto, 3s. 6d.;
to be obtained, prior to the 5th January, 1876, on application at the rooms
of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; Miss Kislingbury;
resident secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists, 38,
Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; Mrs. Everitt, Lilian Villa, Holders-
htll, Hendon, N.W.; Mrs. Maltby, 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W..
Mr. F. Bear, 12, High-etreet, Bow, E.; and Mr. J. Sparey, 13, Middieton-
road, Kingsland, E.
N.B.—Early application for tickets is particularly requested, as tickets
will not be sold at the doors.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—38, Great
Eussell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-EENTS, HOLBOEN, W.O. * ■
Respectfully announce that they execute* ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SEEET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritnalism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership-,
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIUBD FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o’clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 38, Great Eussell-street,
Bloomsbury. W.O.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, Jan. 12fA, 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of'
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discnssing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic
movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is
requested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
British national association of spirit¬
ualists. TRANCE PAINTINGS.—Several small Oil-paintings,
in gilt frames, executed in the trance by the celebrated medium, David
Duguid, of Glasgow, and representing Scotch scenery, are now ON SALE
at 38, Great Eussell-street, at greatly reduced prices, varying from 20s. to
35s. Application to be made to the secretary, 38, Great Eussell-street
Bloomsbury, W.O.  - .
British national association of spirit¬
ualists. FOE SALE.—A variety of Musical Boxes of superior,
quality, and in good order, each containing eight airs. Makers, Nicole,
Geneva. Price, £6 6s. The style of box and selection of music at the
choice of the purchaser. Apply to the secretary, 38, Great Eussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 "till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
• post free on application to
   FEAN CIS RAVENSOEOFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER, PLACE, EEGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, and
umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or> SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s,
London :—Sim-^kin, Marshal,l & Co.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Oitlder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Kveritt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-GOrald, Mrs.. 19, Cambridee-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlU, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Isllngton-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiok-square, S.W.
Joncken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrlstcr-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R.. Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Aicxandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armflcld, W. N., Eden-vllia, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Relgate.
Blnney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutchcson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Camnden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earmam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brlxton,S.W,
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D„ G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6,Kye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wdberforce-street. Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hiU, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Wcstbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-stroet, Leeds. ■
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E,
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, Lonaon-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mattby, Mrs., 8, Granvllle-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. Ji Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Rlchmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C-S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,LL.D.,&c., 17, Trafalgar-road ,Oid Kent-road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-cresccnt, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versallles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp. G. R., 18, Queen Margarefs-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernslde, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-street, Cavendish-square, W.
AVhite, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, 1). H. M.A., Ll.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Ofme-square, Bayswater. W.
With all. Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Hcathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbrny, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden.
-Vhmcd Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobltz, bel Potscnach, Styria,via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfcld. Pinnebcrg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Vch, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme.de Vch, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York ; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co ., New Jersey, U.8.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-iane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian,Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardmge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A.J. Riko, Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Mliun, Italy.
Dr. Miycinillan Perry, Professor of Natural-Science, Herne, Switzerland.
))r. Krahz Hoffmann’, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Idndcsay Richardson,. M I) , care of Mr. W. II. Terry, 96, Ruasell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus, Lelpsic.
W. H Terry, Esq,, 96, Russeil-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M I)., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Ciinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Capo Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassomplerre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de PUnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J.L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris. '
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq>, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis Roherts,
68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
• Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexandor-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers In their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic: to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislinghury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may he had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Medinmship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in bis normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient's residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
■VT OTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
-Ll of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of .’diseases,
indloation of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
mHE-BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers, Physical
JL Mediums, will give Seances as followsOn Monday and Wednesday
evenings, at 7 o'clock p.m., admission 2s. Cd ; on Saturday evenings, at
7,1*. 26, Pool-street, Sutton, Macclesfield.
JL Ijetutir olj i|c ywgrm of l|o attb of jljttijttoafiattt.
VOLUME ^EVE]S(. JSIUJVIBER TWEJ^TY-jSIX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 24th, 1878.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY ON THE FUNDA¬
MENTAL NATURE OF MATTER.
The recent debates before tbe Psychological Society,
upon the article by Professor Tyndall in the Fortnightly
Review, have suffered in consequence of the absence of
any speaker acquainted with molecular physics, and
such a speaker alone is fully competent to enter into
the ideas set forth by the Professor of Natural Philo¬
sophy at the Royal Institution. When several of the
members were in doubt whether Professor Tyndall had
committed himself to materialism at all, the Chairman
and the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, in order to settle the
point, fell back upon a sentence uttered more than a
year previously at Belfast, in which Professor Tyndall
said: “ I see in matter the promise and potency of
every form of life.” This was quoted as arrant mate¬
rialism, yet to those acquainted with molecular physics
it is not so. What does the physicist know of matter?
He knows that it consists of less than a hundred
elements or simple chemical substances, which cannot
be destroyed or resolved into simpler elements by
any power possessed by man at present. For instance,
iron, which is one of the simple substances, may be
boiled or subjected to such intense heat as to be turned
into iron gas, but it remains iron still—no other sub¬
stance can be extracted from it. Even the intense
heat of the electric spark, by which platinum may be
raised to the gaseous state, does not decompose the
present elementary substances of the chemist. The
atoms of these substances, which have never been seen,
for they are far beyond the ken of the most powerful
microscope, are assumed to be in a state of incessant
motion, because the masses they build up are constantly
varying in dimensions with every change of tempera¬
ture, a hot iron poker being, for instance, longer than
a cold, one.- So far as physicists know, these little atoms
swing to and fro with an incessant vibratory motion;
increase in the amount of such motion is heat; in
a hot poker the atoms are supposed to move more
rapidly than in a cold one; indeed, if more heat still
were applied the force of cohesion would be altogether
overcome, and the atoms fly from side to side of the
vessel containing them; in this supposed condition
matter has reached its gaseous state> Thus the whole
question, “ What is matter?” hinges uponthe pro¬
blem, “ What is the nature of the elementary atoms,
which no living man has ever seen ? ” Some physicists
suppose them to be little solid lumps, like infinitely
small shot, others suppose them to consist of aggrega¬
tions of forces emanating from points; this latter idea,
it will be noticed, does away with the existence* of
matter, in the ordinary sense, altogether, and neither
Professor Tyndall nor any physicist living is in a posi¬
tion to deny that it may not be true; by this assump¬
tion the material universe may be done away with,
even without calling in the philosophy of Bishop
Berkeley. Other thinkers, again, look upon atoms as
aggregations of phenomena, and think that in them wo
have no more reached the limits of the material
universe than the Jevfs had reached the limits of stellar
astronomy when they believed the earth to be a flat
plain, for which the sun and stars were created to give
light. In short, the fundamental nature of matter is
unknown to the physicist, and we believe that in one
of his public utterances Professor Tyndall has said
in effect, “ The fundamental nature of matter is essen¬
tially transcendental and unknowable.”
No more atheism or materialism is involved in the
statement that in matter is the “ promise and potency
of every form of life ” than in the analogous statement
that in the egg is the promise and potency of the form
of the living bird.
That intelligence, whatever, may bo its source,
controls the material human body, nobody denies ; and
whether atoms form the gateways through 'which
intelligent principles are compelled to pass before they
can exert their powers in the material universe is the
real question at issue. If the existence of the spirit
were to be admitted by all physicists so that they
become thorough Spiritualists, the difficulty would not
be removed. The question would remain whether the
spiritual world did not reach the material world through
the gateway of the atom. Perhaps the trance medium
was right in his inspired statement that—
“ Every atom is a living thought
Dropped from the meditations of a god.”
THE DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGIOUS THOUGHT
AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Last week a discussion was commenced in the Hour
newspaper, entitled “ Spiritualism v. Christianity.”
The correspondence opened by the publication of a com¬
munication which set forth that the facts of Spiritualism
were true, but of an evil nature, opposed to the recog¬
nised religion of this country. On the other side it has
been argued by Spiritualists that such is not the case.
The opinion has often been expressed in these pages
that the facts of Spiritualism are too few, too little
systematised, too little understood as yet to warrant
the drawing of deductions fitted to form the foundation
of a new religion; it has further been argued that
many of the teachings put forth in the name of Spirit¬
ualism from public platforms, by our own speakers, aro
hot warranted by the Actual facts of the case; indeed,
those who have had moA experience in connection
with mediums and mediumship think that much mis¬
apprehension as to the realities of Spiritualism exist
within the movement. The admirable remarks made
by Mr. H. D. Jencken at one of the latest meetings on
the premises of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, illustrate this point; he has had as much
experience as anybody in his own home, and the daily
observation of one class of the phenomena has convinced
him, as it has others similarly circumstanced, that
much misapprehension as to the realities of Spiritualism
prevails among inexperienced Spiritualists.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.
Anybody who has’ studied mediumship knows how
very much, in the generality of cases, the messages are
coloured by 'the mind of the medium; for instance, if
the ordinary literary composition of the medium is
examined side by side with the communications given
by two or three of his attendant spirits, a great simi¬
larity of phraseology and grammatical construction is
usually to be found. The ideas at the root of the mes¬
sages may be. different and come from various sources,
but they commonly become coloured by the vital tele¬
graphic process through which they reach the external
world. Here and there, striking exceptions to this
rule may be found, some of which include evidence of
the personal identity of the communicating spirits; still
the intense colouring of messages by the mind of the
medium unconsciously to himself is commonly apparent.
Thus the thoughts of mortals have had considerable
influence in moulding the religious ideas now prevalent
in Spiritualism, and those thoughts are higher and
more refined in proportion to the altitude of the mental
natures of the persons through whom they have been
given. This is how one set of religious teachings will
be found among one set of Spiritualists and a different
set of religious teachings among another detachment, and
why the said teachings usually bear a distinct relation to
tl.eopinionsof those whn promulgate them. Among people
of an animal nature, whose delight is chiefly in physical
manifestations and the phenomena connected therewith,
no very high religious ideas are likely to be developed,
but rather in such cases do we find the origin of wild
social problems, like those which have been mooted in
America, and from similar sources come the utterances
which have brought such discredit upon the movement
in the United States that Mrs. Hardinge and other
public speakers have withdrawn from the rostrum
altogether ; indeed, in that country Spiritualists of re¬
finement and intelligence are now to a large extent
keeping aloof from public action.
There are certain points of agreement running
through all the spirit messages, high and low, which
have been given with good intentions; all the spirits
are agreed that there is no eternal punishment, and
that the state of life after bodily death is one of pro¬
gression. As some of our most influential preachers
uplift their voices against eternal punishment, and as
the Christian World &ovc\q time ago printed a series of
articles tending to show that the dogma of everlasting
damnation is not based upon Scriptural authority;
furthermore, as a considerable section of the Christian
Church believes in the efficacy of prayers for the dead,
these, the fundamental teachings of spirits, can scarcely
be said to be absolutely at variance with Christianity.
Spiritualism teaches the living of the life which Christ
led upon earth, but where it clashes most with orthodox
doctrines, it does so chiefly on the ground that these
doctrines have been invented by men,' and had nothing
to do with the Church in its early days. In Spirit¬
ualism there are no mystical doctrines calculated to
bewilder the mind, and it does not tell of a re¬
vengeful God who will torment certain of His children
for ever, so in these points it has an immense advantage
over ordinary orthodoxy. On the other hand, although
in the Church there are crystallised dogmas which
thinking men cannot accept, and which consequently
have to be forced into the minds of children when they
are too young to protect themselves from the mental
injury, there are certain points in which orthodoxy has
the advantage of Spiritualism as judged by its fruits. ^
Por instance, take the celebrated case of the late Mr.
Penuefather’s church at Mildmay-park, Islington. The
members of its flock visit the poof and the afflicted in
their own houses; they minister at the bed-sides of the
dying; they take ragged children out of the street and
teach them to read and write. A few incomprehensible
dogmas coupled with such fruits as these are but as dust
in the balance. Until Spiritualism can furnish a better
system of ethics than the average of those acknowledged
by the Christian Church, until in all points it can show
its superiority also, as judged by its good works, it
cannot claim upon moral grounds to possess superior
religious characteristics. Upon scientific grounds, also,
there is not as yet sufficient evidence to warrant its
promulgation as a new religion.
The question why Spiritualism does not as yet
include so full a performance of deeds of charity as is
characteristic of many orthodox denominations, should
be seriously and carefully examined at one of the winter
meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Possibly Spiritualism has such a hard battle to fight
against the prejudices of the uninformed, and is so
financially crippled in these the younger stages of its
existence, that there has been no possibility of devoting
much energy to charity. Or, it may be that super¬
abundant kindness of heart is commonly enough
allied to weakness of head, as in the case of those
unfortunate Sisters of Mercy who go about doing good,
but lacerate their own bodies with cunningly devised
instruments of torture. Nobody disputes that it is
good to visit the widow and the fatherless in their
affliction, but it may be that if more brain-power were
exerted in other ways to remove the ills of mankind,
infinitely more practical good would be done, although
in a different direction. For instance, if legislation
were conducted upon sound principles of political
economy, free from bias by individuals or classes ; if in
England land were bought and sold like other property,
without any legal delays, impediments, or expenses; if
we had a better currency system, and if the problems
worked out by the late John Stuart Mill were put in
action, the poverty of tens of thousands would be
diminished, and the average of happiness in numberless
homes would be increased; whereas a kind-hearted
person who visits but a dozen or two suffering families,
doing them all the good possible, will pass into the life
beyond after having done infinitely less than Mr. Mill
to remove the evils of the world. The latter may be
compared to a man who stops the gates of a flood which
is drowning tens of thousands, while the kind-hearted
enthusiast attempts not to deal with the causes of the
inundation, but contents himself by dragging a few
drowning individuals out of the waters. The one
deals with causes, the other with effects.
Whatever the solution of the problem may be, the
question ought to be publicly raised why we are
excelled 'fcy qther denominations in deeds jof charity,
and why it is that the religious utterances coming from
large numbers of the lowest of our platforms in
America have brought against the movement from the
lips of Mrs. Hardinge, and others the charge that such
Spiritualism tends to animalism and not to spirituality.
Proof copies have been received of the second volume of Dr.
Crowell’s highly interesting work, Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism. The work will shortly be on public sale.
The Liverpool Psychological Society holds its annual soiree on
Friday, 14th January next.
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
THE TEA YELLING OF THE 'SPIEIT DUEING THE
LIFE OF THE BODY.
The following interesting narrative is quoted from a recent
number of The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), to which journal it
was contributed by Mrs. Emma Hardinge, who is so well known
to English Spiritualists:—
Mr. George Walcutt, the inimitable spirit artist, of Colum¬
bus, Ohio, was, like Dr. Fowler, endowed with the faculty of quit¬
ting his body and wandering forth in the spiritual state and iu the
full possession of all his faculties. The writer was one evening
present at a social gathering at the house of her esteemed friend
and host, Mr. Savage, of Columbus, when Dr. Fowler, who was an
expected guest, made his appearance at about 8 p.m. “ Has George
Walcutt arrived ?” was his -first question. On being informed that
he hat not yet come, he said very gleefully, l< Well, I intend to have
some fun with him presently. Last night I went out of my body, as
my custom is, to see a patient that I felt certain would disobey
orders, and I resolved to make a private inspection of what was
going on, and report my discoveries in the morning'. Now just as
I was passing the corner of Main-street in my own peculiar way,
whom should I meet but George Walcutt; but sure enough he was
out like myself, on his spiritual perambulations. Heaven alone
knows where,' but the best of the thing was that he marched above
the ground more than two feet high, showing to me how lofty the
fellow is, and what an aspiring spirit he has. ‘ Weill,’ says I, ‘ I’ll
mark you, my lad!’ so what did I do but looked at my watch,
which was just twenty minutes to eleven; then I pulled off my
hat to him, and made him a bow. He saw me, or seemed to see me,
for he raised his hat to me like a lord, and on he strode, beating the
air, as if the earth were not good enough for him to tread.” The
doctor laughed heartily at his own conceit, charged us not to say a
word to George when he arrived, but wait his own return, he being
obliged to go away again (this time bodily) to see’ a very sick
person. He had not been gone more than ten minutes when George
Walcutt, accompanied by his wife, entered the apartment. Looking
round the company, and not perceiving the familiar form'of his
friend Dr. *Fowler, he remarked, “ I have a good joke against
Fowler; I went out last night on a roving commission, and just as I
was making my way round the corner of Main-street, whom should
I see but the doctor. At first I thought it was himself bodily, but I
soon found it was his double, for he actually seemed to be walking
in air about two feet'from the ground. I suppose that arises from
his high opinion of himself, and his belief that he was too good to
walk the earth like common people; however that may be,” he
added, “ he bowed, or seemed to bow, and I raised my hat to him.
Now what I want to see is this, whether he had any dream about
me that he can remember last night, or what under the sun it was
that I saw perambulating the streets.”
“You saw!” exclaimed Mrs. Walcutt, laughing; “much you
could have seen last night, for you were sick in bed by eight o’clock,
and I vouch for it never got up again till eight o’clock this morning.”
“ I saw Dr. Fowler at twenty minutes to eleven last night,”
responded Mr. Walcutt, impressively. “ I saw it was that hour by
the Capitol clock. I met Dr. Fowler in Main-street, raised my hat
to him, and he bowed to me, then drew out his watch, looked at the
time, and passed on.”
The reader may make his own comments on the story; our part
is simply to narrate it as it occurred, and to add that both these
gentlemen have given similar tests on many previous occasions,
been seen and recognised frequently at distant places when their
wives testified to their being quietly ensconced in their own beds,
and, as on the night alluded to, had often met and recognised each
other in their spiritual perambulations.
The phenomenon of each seeming to see the other walking in the
air two feet above the earth was new to them, and both being
philosophic reasoners, inclined to the opinion that there was some
lack of attractive power in the state of the earth at that peculiar
time, so that the magnetic bodies of the seers were in reality not in
the usual close contact with the ground which they assumed to be
their ordinary state. Those who have read attentively the History
of the Seeress of Prevorst, as given by Kerner, her physician, will
remember that she possessed the power to quit her body at will,
nay, on some occasions she could actually make knocks to awaken
the attention of those whom she spiritually visited. In nearly all
the published histories of witchcraft frequent mention is made of
the “ spectre ” or apparition of the accused person, being seen
apart from their bodies. The grotesque and fantastic imagery
which poets employ when describing the revels of the “ Witches’
Sabbaths ” is founded upon the legend that certain evil-minded
mortals can quit their bodies at pleasure, and ‘though they
may require, as tradition affirms, a broomstick to ride through the
air, or a sieve to float on the water, withal the idea embodied in
these descriptions is predicated on the popular belief in the “double,”
and the opinion that those who could thus spiritually quit their
bodies and present themselves in distant places were endowed with
a power which constituted the main feature of witchcraft. Ill-
starred indeed were the apparitions of the “double” in ancient
times, as the trials for witchcraft recorded in Scotland, New Eng¬
land, Germany, France, and, indeed, throughout Europe, during
the middle ages, abundantly prove. In many of the narratives
published by Qlanvillo during the famous epoch of Scotch witch¬
craft, when the first King James of England was himself the pro¬
secutor, it is repeatedly alleged that those accused women who were
actually seen at frightful witch gatherings and in the commission of
evil deeds and malign incantations were at the same time proven to
have been quietly sleeping in their own beds, and reposing in their
mortal bodies by their husband’s sides.
We shall conclude this article by a relation never before given
to the public, and one from which we should shrink back with the
aversion which attended its enactment, did we not feel that so
remarkable a case belongs to the world no less than to. the student
of psychology—first, because it lays open a new and startling field
of operations entered upon by the resolved spirit of man, and next,
because it suggests many explanations as to the source of those
mysterious invisible influences that prompt us, we know not how
or from whence, to lines of action from which our reason and better
feelings would revolt, were their exercise not interfered with by
those silent, subtle forces*of psychology so ill understood, so little
counted upon, yet so potential in their operations for good or evil.
We shall entitle our narrative A Dark Page in ifie History of
Psychology, and give it as it was originally prepared for our still
unfinished second volume of Modern American Spiritualism.
The last case of this kind* which our space will allow us to
relate,- is still more strange and problematical than any of the
others; but, as it involves the feelings of a most worthy and
respectable family, the author feels bound to suppress the publica¬
tion of all names but her own, merely pledging herself to furnish,
them to any person who in perfect good faith desires more fully to
verify the facts subjoined, which are as follow: —
Some time about the year 1860, Mrs. Emma Hardinge received a
number of most unaccountable epistles, signed John G (the
name being given in full, dated from Boston. The writer addressed
Mrs. H. in the most inflated and enthusiastic terms of admiration,
and referred to numerous interviews which he purported to have
had with her, and to conversations which he assumed to have
passed between them. So full of detail and matter of fact were
these statements, that Mrs. Hardinge at first believed some
designing woman must have assumed her name, whilst the letters
had by some contretemps, or mistake, been forwarded to herself.
Allusions to her lectures, dresses, and even scenes of private life
known only to her immediate home circle, at length connected
these mysterious documents exclusively with herself. Greatly
perplexed, Mrs. H. began to scrutinise the information communi¬
cated more and more closely, and, to her amazement, found that they
betrayed an intimate knowledge of her very thoughts, no less than-
incidents and words of the most private nature.
These letters not only followed her from place to place in her
itinerant career, but seemed to emanate from one as well acquainted
with her movements as herself. The darkest part of the mystery
was that, though the language of these epistles was refined and
occasionally eloquent, the constant allusioiis to interviews and con¬
versations which were assumed to have transpired between the
parties, by seeming to place them on terms of the most endearing
intimacy, suggested the horrible suspicion that the whole was a
plot concocted by unprincipled enemies to destroy the character of
a young girl whose reputation and usefulness would alike have
been blighted, were these infamous letters to fall into other hands
than her own.
In the deepest distress of mind, occasioned by this inscrutable
mystery, Mrs. H. consulted several of her friends, amongst them
the late venerable and -respected magistrate, Mr. Fletcher, of
Delanco, New Jersey, who, though unable to assist her in his
judicial capacity, advised her to collect and keep the letters as she
received them, promising her, whenever an opportunity occurred, to
render her all the legal assistance in his power to discover and
punish her persecutor.
The same answer and advice was also tendered by Mr. Newall A.
Foster, late Mayor of Portland, in whose house, as a guest, Mrs.
Hardinge was residing when she received several of these offensive
missives. Besides consulting with these and several ‘other friends
in this manner, Mrs. Hardinge pursued a course of observation on
her own part, which led to very extraordinary conclusions, Habit¬
ually accustomed to see and converse with spirits, Mrs. H. did not
regard their visitations with either surprise or fear. One exception
to this complacent feeling, however, occurred in the approach of a dark,
undefined shape, who began frequently to manifest his presence at
night, and always inspired the most unmitigated feeling of loathing
and terror. Neither the form nor features of this mysterious
visitant could be distinctly observed; in fact, the whole manifesta¬
tion appealed rather to perception than sight, and was a presence
rather than an apparition. Who or what it might be, was a pro¬
found mystery. Mrs. Hardinge earnestly questioned her spirit
friends and guides on the nature of this dreadful haunting, but
could obtain from them no other explanation than that it was “ an
evil or undeveloped spirit ” over whom they had no power.
At length the terrors accompanying this obsession became in¬
supportable and injurious alike to health and mental balance. Their
unfortunate subject could always recognise the approach of the
phantom, from her intense feeling of horror and the cold shiverings
which pervaded her whole frame. Sometimes a sensation of faint¬
ness accompanied this presence, which nothing but the insupport¬
able dread of becoming unconscious could overcome.
: * Alluding to cases in the chapter from which this is only an extract,
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.
At last another feature of this mystery loomed up amidst the
darkness. The midnight visitations were the unmistakable precur¬
sors of the not less abhorred letters above alluded to. They came
so closely and invariably in succession, and the feelings experienced
in the presence of the one and the receipt of the other were so
exactly similar, that Mrs. H. began at last to realise that they were
as intimately connected as the shadow and substance of one dire
system of persecution. Whether impelled by desperation, or in¬
spired by her watchful spirit guardians, the affrighted medium could
not determine ; but this is the method which she took to solve at
least one portion of the mystery, namely, thp conneciion of the
phantom and her Imted correspondent.
One night, after returning from a lecture, when Mrs. H. felt the
near approach of the invisible tormentor, and notwithstanding the
fact that her terror almost deprived her of the power of motion,
she hastily snatched up the blue silk dress which she hkd just taken
Off, arranging the skirt around her head in the manner of a veil.
Mrs. H. at that time was lecturing in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Three days later she received one of the usual odious missives
dated from Boston, containing these remarkable words:—
“ How beautiful my angel looked arrayed in that blue veil, which
she so kindly threw over her head last Friday night, as if in token
of welcome, when I entered her chamber.”
Still another experiment was attempted, urged by a new horror
at the shocking possibilities disclosed in this sentence.
Mrs. Hardinge was returning from a lecture at a distance from
town, and was travelling in a large covered carriage with three
friends, late at night, when the party halted at a lonely inn by the
wayside to water and refresh the horses. Being exceedingly fatigued,
Mrs. H. sat still in the carriage whilst the rest of the party alighted.
Suddenly she became aware that a man was seated at her side, and
actually in contact with her. She was on the back seat, and com¬
manded a full view of all that was going on in front. She was con¬
fident that no one had entered the carriage, nor would it have been
possible for any one to have done so without observation. Yet in
an instant she. knew that some one was there, and. the conscious¬
ness of this mysterious companion’s proximity was so startling and
alarming that Mrs. PI. was on the point of shrieking aloud, when
the deathly chillness which accompanied her phantom tormentor in¬
formed her of his presence.
Almost paralysed as she was, she remembered enough of her
desperate resolution to avail herself of another opportunity for
experiment, and snatching the hood from her head she tore a flower
from the bouquet she held in her hand and tossed it hastily into her
hair. The flower was a Cape-jasmine, and was seized as the first
that presented itself. Before she could recall her scattered senses
the figure was gone, and her friends resumed their places in the
vehicle.
So rapidly had the whole Scene passed, that ere she arrived home
Mrs. H. had persuaded herself it must have been a dream, a mere
fancy, a vision conjured up by ill-health and disordered imagina¬
tion, &c., &c.
On reaching her place of destination several letters were put into
her hands, one of which instantly produced the sense of fear and
loathing which announced her detested correspondent. On opening
the letter a faded sprig of Cape jasmine fell from the envelope, and
these words caught her eye:—“ To satisfy me that my visits are ap¬
preciated, I entreat you to place in your hair at eleven o’clock on
Monday night next, a sprig of Cape jasmine, or any white flower
you can procure.”
The lecturer looked at her watch—it was twenty minutes past
eleven, Monday night. The carriage must have stopped at eleven
precisely!
It would be needless to pursue the details of this painful case
more closely; wo hasten therefore to relate its consummation. The
time of this occurrence was the month of January, 1861, and Mrs.
Hardinge was delivering a course of lectures in Georgia.
The day after tho receipt of the missive noticed above, Mrs.
Hardinge enclosed it with three others from the same source in a
letter from herself to the chief of police in Boston, in which, omitting
the spiritual visitations connected with these letters (which she
deemed would not be understood or susceptible of proof), she de¬
tailed the other circumstances of their reception, and called upon the
chief, in his official capacity, to use his utmost efforts to discover the
writer, with a view of dn immediate prosecution, which, she added
with all the indignation prompted by her outraged sensibility, she
desired to pursue with the strictest rigour of the law.
When her package was ready for mailing, and before she could
summon a messenger to despatch it, a spirit friend addressed Mrs. H.,
speaking to her in the usual analytical method adopted by her
invisible guides, as follows:—
“What are you going to do with your letters? ”
“ Mrs. H.—“ You know very well what they are, and why I send
them hence.”
Spirit.—“Your fire is low; tho air is chill. Will you oblige
spirit friends by mending the fire with those papers ? ”
Mrs. H.—“ I will not—positively not. You would notaid me to
solve the mystery of my tormentor’s presence, and now you want
me to burn his letters. I refuse you, as you have refused me the
help I sought.”
Spirit.—“ Spirit friends are not God, and cannot control events,
nor yet other spirits than those associated with them in the Divine
plan. Will you not save yourself from the commission of great
wrong, and give your package to the flames ? See now; they are
fading for lack of fuel.”
Mrs. H.—“Prove to me that I should commit any wrong by
sending them where they are directed, and then, but not till then, I
will withhold them.”
Spirit.—“ We cannot now give you the proof you seek, but in
six weeks hence you will obtain it yourself—in sorrow and remorse
if you send your package forth; in perfect satisfaction if you will
stay your hand for that period only.”
Mrs. H.—“ I agree to do so, then, for that period only. If at the
end of six weeks I am not satisfied, I will deliver that package as
I design it, and renounce the protection you now assume to exercise
over me.”
Spirit.—“ We clasp hands on your compact.”
Six weeks from that time did not elapse ere Mrs. Hardingo was
in Boston, Mass., to fulfil a lecturing engagement.
The day after her arrival she was waited on by a lady, who ear¬
nestly solicited a private interview. The request granted, a highly
interesting and refined widow lady stated in words broken by deep
emotion and fast-falling tears, that herself and her mother (also a
widow) had been dependent upon her only brother, who had held a
most responsible situation, and up to some sixteen months previous
had fulfilled all his public and private duties in the most exemplary
manner. The lady (Mrs. C.) added that this dear relative had been
to both mother and daughter “the stay of their household, the light
of their eyes, the joy of their hearts, beloved and respected by all
who knew him.” The whole family were Spiritualists, and some
sixteen months ago, for the first time, had attended a course of lec¬
tures delivered by Mrs. Hardinge in Boston.
About this time one of those pernicious theorists who attempt to
cover the promptings of licentiousness by the gloss of philosophy,
teaching the practice of sensuality under the pretence of seeking
“ true affinities ” (?) informed Mr. 0. (as a spiritual communication
of high authority) that Mrs. Hardinge, the lecturer, was his spiritual
affinity, and that henceforth he must dedicate his life to her. With¬
out presuming to seek an interview with the subject of this base¬
less revelation, not even daring to inform her of it in the ordinary
way of correspondence, the deluded man cherished his fantasy for
some time in private, until he worked himself into the-belief of its
correctness. Then, fearing that he should be spurned with indig¬
nation if he openly urged his fancied claim, he proceeded to consult
certain magnetisers, and through their promptings used the really
strong powers of clairvoyance which he possessed for the purpose
of establishing a spiritual communion with his supposed affinity.
To promote the most favourable conditions for these exercises,
the infatuated man devoted all his time to magnetic experiments,
neglected his business, put himself upon the most abstemious
regimen, and distracted his sorrowing relatives by practices
corresponding to those of ancient “ magicians ” or modern
“ fakirs.”
Whether he succeeded in establishing his spiritual freedom by
the use of drugs, magical or magnetic practices, the narrator
could not say, but she alleged that he now began constantly to
declare to his family that he could visit the beloved object of
his insane purpose, however distant, whenever or wherever he
pleased!
He frequently described to his afflicted relatives the dresses which
the lady wore on the occasion of his terrible visits; also the persons
by whom she was surrounded, and the details of her situation.
Mrs. C. (the sister) had preserved notes of these statements, and
when she submitted them f,o Mrs. Hardinge, the latter could no
longer doubt the identity of the brother with the Mr. G. who had
so long tormented her. Not only was the name similar, but the
statements themselves proved, in all their details, to be so in¬
variably correct that no doubt remained of the truth of the man’s
allegations.
Many convincing evidences were afforded to the family of his
remarkable clairvoyant faculty, his unquestionable Ability to send
his spirit forth from his body, and, under favourable conditions, to
exert that power at will. Tho effect of such practices, however,
upon his physical and mental systems was disastrous to the last
extent. He had grown so weak and debilitated that he could no
longer pursue his usual avocations, added to which his mind was
fast becoming more and more unbalahced, so that confirmed lunacy
might be expected to supervene as the final result.
In this calamitous strai-t the unhappy mother and sister deter¬
mined to apply to the innocent and unconscious cause of their mis¬
fortune, to solicit aid and counsel in their difficulty; and then it was
that Mrs. Hardinge perceived the disgrace she would have entailed
on the respectable family of her infatuated tormentor, had she ex¬
posed him by putting his letters in the hands of the police; also
how much cause she had to rejoice that she had been withheld from
heaping the additional misery of a public prosecution on the heads
of the unfortunate women, who were already sufficiently over¬
whelmed by the existing facts. Every effort was made that could
be brought to bear, under the circumstances, to alleviate the distress
of the family, and restore the unhappy man to reason; the results
not to belong to history.
The winner of the musical box, which was drawn for on Mon¬
day evening last at 38, Great Kussell-stroet, is Miss 'Jeffreys, a
member of th& National Association of Spiritualists.
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
305
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday night last week Mr. Serjeant Cox presided at the
usual fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society, held at 9,
Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London.
The nainutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, then announced the fol¬
lowing new members:—Mr. Henry Ulyett, Captain E. Garratt, Mr.
G. N. Strawbridge, Mr. Samuel Spalding, F.S.A., and Mr. W. W.
Fawcett.
The President announced that the next meeting would, according
to the regular routine, fall upon the sixth of January, but that day
being too close to Christmas, the society would not again meet
until January 20th.
THE NATUBE OP THE SOUL.
Mr. G. Harris, F.S.A., opened the debate by saying—The subject
before us is one of the highest importance and the loftiest nature;
it is one, too, which has occupied the attention of the greatest
intellects that the world has witnessed, and is well fitted to claim
the attention of a psychological society. An inquiry into the
nature of the soul appears to me to present itself under three
separate phases, and there are three leading theories as to its qua¬
lities and essence. 1. By some it is contended to be an absolutely
immaterial being, devoid of all substance and all properties of
substance, and whose essence, according to Descartes and some
others, consists only in thinking. These persons reduce it to a
mere nonentity, a simple creation of the imagination. 2. By others
it is considered to be of an entirely material nature, the mere
result of the organisation of the body, the structure of the brain.
8. By a third party it is deemed to be an ethereal substance, pos¬
sessing certain of the qualities of matter, but of so refined and
subtle a nature as to be capable of being endowed with intelligence.
Dr. Priestley and some others contended that no kind of matter,
however refined, can be endowed with intelligence. The grand
question raised, or thought to be raised, by Professor Tyndall’s
article is, whether the soul exists of itself as an independent being,
or whether it is the mere result of bodily organisation, of the struc¬
ture of the brain. His argument is rather negative than positive.
He tells us rather what he does not hold than what he does hold.
Possibly we infer his meaning rather from what certain men of his
school hold, or are said to hold, than from anything contained in
the article itself. Indeed, to judge precisely of his meaning, we
ought to see before us not only the article referred to, but that to
which it is a reply. The question at issue is incapable of either
absolute proof or absolute disproof. We cannot adduce conclusive
evidence that the soul is not, as Professor Tyndall is supposed to
assert, the result of organisation. Nor can Professor Tyndall, or
any one else, prove that it is so. Properly, his theory ought to be
proved before any disproof of it is demanded. Argument and
conjecture are the most that can be supplied on either side. There
are two grand arguments against the supposed theory of Professor
Tyndall. I. That organisation itself is incapable of supplying a
soul. II. That spirits exist independent of organised powers.
1. As regards the first of these arguments, if organisation, or the
structure of the brain, of itself constitutes a soul, then a dead
body, so long as its organisation remained complete, must be
endows} with a soul equally with a living one. And further than
this, you could only get rid of the soul by destroying or injuring
the organisation of the body; whereas we know that separation of
soul and body are caused by several modes which do not affect
organisation. 2. The existence of spirits is not believed by many.
But this question, like the other, is neither proved nor disproved
absolutely. It is open to argument, and is a matter of conjecture
only. Those, however, who believe in the existence of spirits must
necessarily believe in the existence of a soul, which is but a dis¬
embodied spirit, and they must believe also that it exists indepen¬
dent of organisation or of the material frame. As to whether
spirits exist or not, this question also, as’ regards the individual
belief of each pewson, ought to be determined solely by the facts
he sees before him, aud by the exercise of his reason upon these
facts. No one has a right to come to a conclusion without this
process. Nevertheless, the argument in favour of the existence of
a soul does not depend on our belief in the existence of spirits,
although that belief affords much additional weight to it. On the
whole, Mr. Harris concluded that the most rational view to be taken
of the subject was that the soul existed as an independent being;
that it did not depend on organisation or the structure of the brain;
that it was not a mere nonentity; but that it consisted of some
substance of a very refined and ethereal nature, to which it was not
unreasonable to suppose that intelligence might be attached. And
this seemed to him to be the opinion of the greatest philosophers
both in ancient and modern times.
A BRAHMIN ON THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL. .
Mr. Tagore, a Brahmin, then argued that the immortality of the
soul was not unprovable as a doctrine, but that the proof depended
upon ethical considerations. He said that the Hindoos, in spite of
science, believed in the immortality of the soul, and the doctrine of
the immortality of the soul implied the immortality of the brute
creation. He said that religions must of necessity be various, de¬
pending upon varieties of race, their circumstances, and their degree
of civilisation; thus the religion of any particular people was the
result of an ethnical law; therefore, speaking simply as a scientific
man, and keeping his Christianity for his own cloister and his
private prayer, he thought it the duty of that society to inquire
into the old religions of the world, and agree upon a consensus of
certain points, which, he thought, would substantiate the immor¬
tality of the soul. Hindoo philosophers asserted that there was no
separate soul for each particular body; they were of opinion that
the soul was unalterable in its essence, but that it came under
limitations when it entered the body. Death to them was the
separation of the soul from corporeal existence, but not its extinction,
the spirit being imperishable. His English friends often asked him
what was meant by Nirv&na. The original idea of the Hindoo- was
that the soul was an emanation from the Deity, and that directly it
was freed from the body, like a drop taken out of the ocean, to the
ocean it returned; there was no annihilation, unless it could be
proved that the original soul could be annihilated. He believed
that some such mysterious ideas caused Paul to say, “ When the
Son shall have given up His kingdom, God shall be all in all.” He
(Mr. Tagore) was that evening trying to apologise for the belief of
his nation; he did not say that that belief was compatible with the
science of the nineteenth century, still they would perhaps allow a
poor Brahmin to apologise for his people. (Applause.) They must
not think there was no school of materialists in India, for some of
his people had anticipated Professor Tyndall, and asserted that
there was no proof of life after death; but they were a great
minority, just as in England there was one Professor Tyndall
to twenty other professors who held an opposite opinion. The
philosophy of the Hindoos promised beatitude and freedom
from evil hereafter, founded on the idea of the soul’s eternal
existence apart from the body. That idea — that belief in
immortality — led men to knowledge, power, and civilisation,
for if materialism were true and similarly influenced the minds of
men, where would be our laws, our criminal jurisprudence, our
morality? These would be gone if men believed that all ended
with this life. If that were the case, where should we see the
spectacle of the rich man humbling himself ? Was the question at
issue to be decided by scientific deduction, or by the whole system
of sociology under which men live at the present time, and without
which all would possibly be evil ? The Hindoos were, therefore,
quite right in saying that the foundations of civilisation lay in the
belief in the existence of the soul apart from the body. The word
“ substance ” had with the Hindoo a variety of interpretations, but
his chief idea was that soul was the substratum of nature. It was
well to have clear definitions, for if men would only properly define
the words they used, half the differences among philosophers
would vanish. (Hear, hear.) The soul by the Hindoo was defined
as being the substratum of all things, so into what errors the poor
missionaries fell when talking to the Hindoo, and giving another
definition to substance to that which it bore in the minds of the
listeners! How necessary it was, then, that the Psychological
Society should exist, to teach the poor missionaries who go out to
enlighten the heathen that it is advisable they should study psy¬
chology first, and preach afterwards. The Hindoos believe in one
God, the seat of absolute knowledge, the Maker of all things; they
believe that the human soul goes out from Him to gain experience,
and that it afterwards reaps the fruits of its deeds ; they think that
the soul is to the Supreme Ruler what a spark is to fire. The
Hindoos, like the Christians, do not look upon the Almighty as a
Master and themselves His servants, but they regard Him as a
Father. Thus it would be seen, that if their doctrines were
properly understood, they would lead almost to the Christian
theology. They were not a servile race, but they taught that man
should do the will of God because they believed in His Fatherhood.
Once when Irving was preaching he used an expression which
struck Canning, and afterwards was repeated in the House of Com¬
mons, to the effect—“ Let us throw ourselves on the Fatherhood of
God.” The English people generally had erroneous notions about
the Hindoo belief in the transmigration of the soul, and when
ladies talked to him in pity about that doctrine at dinner-
tables, he was too polite to contradict them, yet he felt it
to be necessary to go more into detail before that society. The
Hindoo believed that when the soul was emancipated it was
immediately attracted by some frame, which might be that of a
beast or that of a man, and through that frame it entered into
limitations; according to the life of a man in the body, so was the
quality of the frame to which he was attracted when the spirit was
again freed. Thus the Hindoo saw nothing but transformations of
the eternal life principle, and they believed that at the consumma¬
tion of all things the soul would be dissolved into creation. They
believed neither in an eternal hell nor in an eternal paradise. The
spirit of the age at the present time was unquestionably driving
towards materialism, and the ‘question to be considered was,
.“ Is materialism degrading or elevating ? ” If it were not elevating
then must man turn to Spiritualism—he meant Spiritualism in its
higher sense. There was no doubt that belief in the immortality of
the soul was the basis of jurisprudence, and would survive all other
dogmas whatever. (Applause.)
PROFESSOR AGASSIZ UNDER MESMERIC INFLUENCE.
Mr. Dunlop remarked that he had lived for a long time in India.
He thought that Mr. Tagore, the last speaker, would agree that he
had uttered a great deal of sentiment, and had given the meeting
very little science. He (Mr. Dunlop) rose to say that he could not
understand on what pretence Professor Tyndall had been called a
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875
materialist, for he was not one in its offensive sense, as judged by
the contents of his essay. The word had been attached to him by
the speakers in a sense in which he*objected to have it applied;
indeed in the article in question Professor Tyndall had been quite
sensitive in protecting himself from the charge of materialism, and
had expressed the idea that in the future there was some possi¬
bility of "union between science and religion. .He could find
nothing in Professor Tyndall’s article to prevent that gentleman
becoming a valuable member of the Psychological Society. Pro¬
fessor Tyndall, in one of his previous public utterances, had told
his hearers he could give them information about phenomena, but
if they asked for causes he did not know them,, neither did the
greatest philosopher living. Iu the article they were considering,
Professor Tyndall said that he did not know the nature of the
formative powers, a power which those at that meeting called
“ psyche,” a power of which the Professor always spoke reverently,
and the existence of which he had never denied. He (Mr. Dunlop)
thought that the President had done wrong in his opening address
to say that the Psychological Society would do good to theology by
proving the existence of the soul; he did not think that the point which
the society was to reach, should thus be laid down beforehand. He
was very grateful to the secretary for the facts he had brought for¬
ward at the last meeting, although one young gentleman present
expressed an opinion by singing out “ Hear, hear ” at a particular
point, that Mr. Munton had produced the slate-writing himself.
Some time ago he (Mr. Dunlop) had tried experiments upon the
power of one mind to influence the mind of another person, and. in
the course of an argument with Professor Stone, a well-known
American gentleman, and a very truthful man, had [pointed out to
the professor that mesmeric sensitives never could be made to.do any¬
thing, unless the order first took objective form in the material
world, and thus reached them through their senses. Professor
Stone had told him that once he gave Agassiz a glass of water to
taste, and Agassiz, on being questioned, said, “ It is water.” Pro¬
fessor Stone then said, “ Taste it again, and you will find it is
brandy.” Agassiz then gave a remarkable answer, for he said, “ I
examined this water a minute ago, and saw clearly that it was
water; indeed, I know that it is water still; but,” he added, “it
has the colour of brandy, the smell of brandy, and the taste of
brandy.” Thus, while under mesmeric influence, the reasoning
powers of Agassiz were not impaired. He had seen strange things
in Calcutta, at the hospital of Dr. Esdaile, where the most horrible
operations were performed upon patients in the mesmeric sleep, and
he was asked a few days ago by Sir J. Paget, “ Do you believe such
nonsense as that ? ” (Laughter). He replied, “ I have seen it.”
‘ Well,” was the response, “if that is so, we will allow that it will
do with Hindoos, but it won’t do with Englishmen.” (Laughter.)
Some very able men were thus extremely prejudiced. Professor
Tyndall believed in an unknown power, perhaps in that power
which the heathens worshipped as the unknown God ; still he was
not a bigot, he was ready to change any opinion if evidence were
given why be should do so; he did not deny the immortality of the
soul, he merely asserted that it had not been proved, whereas, in the
Psychological Society a preconceived idea had been laid down that
the soul was independent of the body, and he (Mr. Dunlop), did not
think that even Spiritualism had succeeded in proving that scienti¬
fically. How far did the psyche exist. Dogs had a conscience, and
appeared to dream, so the psyche existed in animal form; it might
almost be supposed tq exist in vegetables, especially sensitive
plants, and it might almost be fancied that the psyche existed in
climbing plants, which would go directly out of their way, leaving
a strong support to reach a weaker one further off. He did not
think that Professor Tyndall was a materialist in the objectionable
sense of the word.
Mr. Serjeant Cox replied that he had called him so because Pro¬
fessor Tyndall had called himself a materialist, and had always
represented himself as not satisfied of anything but the existence
of matter; for instance, he had said in his Belfast address, “ I see
in matter the promise and potency of every form of life.” That
was distinctly materialism. He had written forty or fifty pages of
objections in answer to one of his opponents alone, and if the charge
of materialism were not brought against him justly, it would not
have taken more than twenty lines to deny it. By that means he
could have answered all his opponents at once. He had not stated
his points distinctly, and that was the cause of differences of opinion
among the speakers.
Dr. Shaw remarked that in previous speeches Dr. Tyndall had
denied himself to be a materialist.
Mr. Pawcett said that, as a man of science, Professor Tyndall
was a materialist, because science could not prove the existence of
a Divine Being at all;. the Professor ignored the faculties of the
mind, he ignored intellectual intuition, and, after putting these things
out of court, as a man of science, he had a perfect right to be a
materialist. ■ The question was, “Did matter originate life and
thought?” Consciousness was indivisible, and matter being
divisible how could the first come from the last ? How could force
produce molecular motion?
The Chairman said that the point at issue was not whether there
was anything else besides matter, but whether men "had a soul as
well as a body. He thought Professor Tyndall would say “ No ” to
that.
Mr. Jeremiah, jun., remarked that Professor Tyndall agreed that
there could be no scientific proof of the existence of soul, and he
seemed prepared to deny it until it .could be proved upon a scientific
basis. Professor Tyndall had once said that he could not prove
that there was no God; for that reason he was notan atheist. At
Manchester Professor Tyndall had once made a speech saying that
man was surrounded by mystery everywhere, and that when in
the springtime he saw the sprouting life of the trees and flowers,
he thought to himself, “ Is there no being who knows more about
these things than I do?” True scientific materialism'did not lead
to Atheism.
The Bev. W. Stainton-Moses thought that the speakers were
fighting with shadows, and that a dictionary would remove half
their difficulties. If that man were not a materialist who said that
he discerned in matter the “ promise and potency of every form of
life,” it was impossible to say who could be called a materialist.
Still, Professor Tyndall had so poised his position as to leave him¬
self very convenient openings for retreat in all directions; he (Mr.
Moses) therefore thought that they could not frame any logical
position out of which Professor Tyndall could not escape, conse¬
quently it seemed to him to be a waste of time to continue the
debate. (No, no.)
Mr. C. 0. Massey moved the adjournment of the debate until the
first meeting of the society in February, as the next ordinary
meeting would be occupied by another subject.
The Chairman closed the meeting by remarking: When the
debate is resumed let us keep well to the real subject, “ Has man a
soul ? ”
DE. CHILD, OF PHILADELPHIA.
Me. Algernon Joy, in a speech made shortly after his return
from America, stated that that old worker in the cause of Spirit¬
ualism, Dr. Child, has been—in reality although not nominally—
obliged to resign his position as President of the Philadelphia
Society of Spiritualists because of his slight connection with the
Holmeses, who mixed up imposture with genuine mediumship. Dr*
Child seems to us to have been the victim of inexperience on the
part of American Spiritualists, of the nature of certain varieties
of spiritual phenomena. He, and most of the other Spiritualists in
Philadelphia, believed more or less in the literal accuracy of the
accounts given by the various J ohn and Katie Kings of their lives
upon earth, although upon examination they were found not to
tally so well as could be desired with the facts recorded in history.
It should have been known to them, that these spirits, in talking
through the same medium, frequently tell one tale about themselves
at one time, and another at another; in short, the tales of the spirits
who produce the majority of strong physical manifestations are
entirely untrustworthy; whether this divergence from veracity is
intentional or not in all cases, we cannot say; in some instances it
seems as if ideas in the mind of the mediums as to who these spirits
maybe, are afterwards stated as actual facts, owing to difficulties in
the method of communicating. The next error, which might have
been avoided had spirit messages been more closely criticised by
American students of the phenomena, is that in which some spirit
professing to be the Holmeses’ Katie King communicated the history
of her life through the hand of Dr. Child himself. Not only is it
well known that in the writing given' through the hands of many
mediums, evidence of spirit identity is altogether lacking, but the
said writings are frequently characterised by the phraseology used
by the medium in his normal state, no matter who may be the spirit
who professes to communicate. The third error was that Dr. Child
should ally himself in a business way with powerful physical
mediums, who occasionally pass so far under the influence of
undeveloped spirits as to be scarcely responsible for their actions,
as in the case of Buguet, of Paris, and of the American mediums,
who have exhibited genuine manifestations as imposture. The
business connection of Dr. Child with the Holmeses was a very
slender one, and at the time nobody thought it unnatural that they
should have some responsible manager to look after their seances.
All these errors, and we think them to be no more, for they are
such as any inexperienced person might fall into, have come to be
considered as so many united circumstances telling against the
integrity of Dr. Child. Such suspicions seem not to be well founded,
and when he, like Mr. Dale Owen, tried to probe the imposture to
its roots, the Holmeses threw plenty of mud at him, inventing things
against his moral character—just as the Eddys have done in con¬
versation against a rival medium, who chances to be their own
sister, Mrs. Huntoon. Lastly, Dr. Child has been blamed for not
withdrawing all the’copies of his book about the earth-life of Katie
King from, sale in the American market, but what power has he to
do so? He could stop the remaining copies in the hands of the
wholesale dealer who possessed the bulk of the stock, but after the
book was once distributed all over the country through the trade,
he could by no possibility ascertain what particular booksellers
possessed copies, so had no power to get them out of their hands.
These remarks do not arise from our having had any communica¬
tion with Dr. Child, or with any of his friends, or with any living
person; they are made in consequence of our having examined the
facts at the time, and come to the conclusion that he is simply the
victim of inexperience, credulity, and lack of critical power. If the
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
laws and principles influencing mediums and spiritual phenomena
were more closely studied and better understood, the chief workers
in Spiritualism and the movement itself would be saved from many
troubles.
THE WHITECHAPEL MURDER REVEALED BY SPIRITS.
Several of the London daily newspapers of last
Monday contained a letter from Mr. A. P. Stokes, the
man who discovered the dead body of Harriet Lane
sewed up in a sack, and who thereby caused his friend,
Henry Wainwright, to be taken into custody by the
police, to be finally found guilty of murder, and to be
hanged. In the letter he narrates how a human voice
said to him three times, “ Open that parcel! Open that
parcel! Look in that parcel! ” This voice led to the reve¬
lation of the terrible details which have so much occupied
the attention of the English public during the past
few weeks.
To Spiritualists there is nothing surprising in the
matter. For a long time it has been known that
houses are sometimes haunted in consequence of some
fearful crime having been committed within their
walls. In such cases the spirit does not appear to
require the presence of a human medium, but becomes
connected in some mysterious way with the house
itself; for, no matter how frequently the inmates of the
dwelling may be changed, the place continues to be
haunted, although, when medial persons chance to be
living on the premises, the manifestations are no doubt
stronger. Evidence contributed by Mrs. Nosworthy, of
Liverpool, was oftce printed in these pages, showing
how a piece of furniture, bought at a sale, was
haunted, and caused much trouble in her husband’s
house, until it was burnt. The mortal remains of
Harriet Lane, no doubt, on the same principle had
some of this little known and not at all understood
power hanging about them, so as to permit the spirit to
manifest physically in their immediate locality. Dr.
Carpenter strives to explain such cases as these by
the unconscious cerebration theory, but how could the
abnormal action of a man’s brain inform him of actual
facts which had never been previously in his mind ?
There is another way by which the spirit might have
communicated, as stated, with the man Stokes. Instead
of the spirit being sufficiently materialised to address
him objectively, so that the sounds were conveyed by
the ear of Alfred Stokes to his consciousness in the
ordinary manner, he may be a medium, and possibly
upon this occasion his spiritual senses were partially
opened, so that he became in fact clairaudiant.
Whether this was the case can scarcely be determined
without seeing him, but it is clear either that his
spiritual senses were opened in such a way as to bring
him into contact to a slight extent with the spiritual
world, or that the departed Harriet Lane was able to
materialise herself sufficiently to speak to him in the
same way that other spirits frequently make their
voices heard at spirit circles.
The Red Barn murder was a remarkable instance of
a deed of evil having been brought to the light of day,
and to justice, by spirit power. In that case the spirit
of the murdered woman influenced the mind of her
mother in a dream; thus the fearful secret was un¬
veiled in the visions of the night.
The letter sent by Stokes to Henry Wain wright, is
dated 34, Baker’s-row, Whitechapel, December 6th,
1875, and the following is the portion, which relates to
the intervention of the spirit:—
MESSAGES GIVEN BY THE SPIRIT OP HARRIET LANE.
I feel I must write, to you to say that I trust that you will not
consider that what I nave done or said against you was either said
or done from any personal malice towards you, or that I was
lacking in friendship towards yo'u because I could not bring myself
to any endeavour to try and .screen you. On the contrary, I and
all to whom I have spoken, who were formerly in your employ¬
ment, have always esteemed you as a kind and good master, and
always a most generous friend. God and yourself only know how
much you were concerned in the terrible crime laid to your charge,
but I do hope and trust you will consider that in giving my evidence
against you that I only fulfilled a national duty which I believe
was the will of God, and which I know was done in the interests of
humanity. When I sfj.y that it was the will of God, I must now tell
you more of the details of the strange promptings I had to open the
parcel that I have hitherto made public. Perhaps you think, as I
know many in the world think, that I was only move^ by a base
and a prying curiosity. Rut I can assure you, between myself and
God, that it was not that, but that I in reality was urged as it
were by a strange mysterious agency for which I can scarcely
account. Probably the world may laugh, and you, too, at what I-
am now going to tell you, but I declare it to be true. It has caused
me more than ever to be convinced that there is a God and a super¬
human power around us, and I hope it will cause you to think so
too. These unaccountable promptings began the very moment you
left me with that frightful bundle whilst you went to fetch the cab.
The very instant your back was turned I seemed to hear a super¬
natural voice say to me three times as distinctly as though it were a'
human voice somewhere near me :—“ Open that parcel. Open that
parcel. Look in that parcel.” I at first thought that perhaps you
were carrying away hair or something not belonging to you, and I
hesitated what I should do. I seemed to hear the voice again, and
then felt pressed on by an irresistible impulse to open it. I imme¬
diately rent it open. The head and hands came up together, and as
I stood for a moment aghast at the mutilated head so grim and yet
apparently so pitiable, thinking over and puzzling what 1 should
say to you when you came back, I seemed instantly possessed and
controlled by a power and agency, by a cautionary prudence and
energy not my own, and certainly not natural to me, and then, as I
hastily closed up the parcel again, thinking that perhaps it would
bo best to say nothing about it, I then seemed to hear the same super¬
natural voice address me again and say, “ Murder; it is a murder.
Will you conceal a murder ? ” I then said, “No, not for my own
father! Oh! pray God direct me aright, but shall I give up the very
best friend I have had in my life ? ” You then came up with
the cab, took the parcels, and drove away. As I stood for a
moment in utter consternation, with my hair feeling as though it
stood erect on my head, I immediately seemed to hear the same
voice again addressing me and saying, “ Follow the cab, follow the
cab.” I at once did so. I set on to run as though I was propelled
along. I ran till I nearly dropped of exhaustion, and'certainly
seemed sustained by a strength superior to my own. Thus, from
the remembrance of the strange inexplicable power which so
suddenly overruled me, I feel convinced that I was really destined
to be the humble medium by which that mysterious and barbarous
murder was to be brought to light. Had I been left to my own
natural impulse in the matter, the probability is that the crime
would not have been so fully detected. Under these circumstances,
then, I do trust that you will personally forgive me. My own
personal grief is very great when I reflect upon the awful position
my evidence has placed you in, and the terrible bereavement it has
entailed upon your poor wife, your children, and your family. No
doubt in future years I shall often ponder over your untimely end,
and regret it was I who had to perform such a painful national
duty ; but it will greatly assuage my regret when I in future years
reflect that I did all I could to assure you that I had no personal
enmity to you. As a former friend I now ask you to make your
peace with God.
AN EXTRAORDINARY CASE OF MESMERISM.
Another example of the intervention of psychological
influences in the ordinary affairs of life was printed in
The Weekly Times of last Saturday, and had before
been printed in The Daily News and The North British
Daily Mail. The late Professor Gregory, of Edinburgh,
pointed out in his book on mesmerism how, when his
patients were commanded while in the mesmeric sleep
to do certain acts at a particular time afterwards when
they were fully awake, such acts were actually com¬
mitted at the time ordered. The why and the where¬
fore of these strange, things are not known, but the
following case, like the one just quoted, shows how
true they are, and what urgent necessity there is for
their investigation.
Much excitement and not a little indignation were occasioned in
Go van on Wednesday afternoon by the conduct of a mesmerist, and
there is some talk of a civil action being raised against him for
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.
injuries inflicted on a respectable young married man residing in
Burndyke-street, who was allowed to lie on the cold, damp ground
in .Napier-street for about twenty minutes in %state of mesmerism,
and had to be conveyed on a barrow to the police-office, and the
services of a medical man obtained before he was brought to his
senses. It appears that the mesmerist gave an entertainment in the
burgh on the previous evening, and that the young man, who is a
fitter in one of the shipbuilding yards, was mesmerised along with
several others, and while in that state the mesmerist commanded
him to come to the corner of the above street at a quarter before two
o’clock on the following day and share with him the half of Ins
dinner. The fitter went to his work in the morning all right, but
just as he was in the act of taking his dinner he suddenly left the
table, carrying a little jug full of broth, and made his way down
Govan-road in an excited manner to the place where the “ Professor"
was to meet him. A large crowd soon collected round the poor
fellow, who was as if pinned to the wall, holding on tenaciously to
his little jug containing the broth. He eventually slid down upon
the cold ground, however, and lay there for about twenty minutes.
The excited crowd expected the mesmerist to keep his appointment
and relieve the poor fellow from his position, but he did not put in
an appearance. The police arrived on the scene, and the man was
conveyed to the office on a barrow. His limbs were by this time
perfectly stiff, and with the exception of a slight movement of the
heart and pulse, the body showed very little signs of life. Hr.
Barras was sent for, and after copsiderable difficulty succeeded in
bringing the young fellow out of his mesmeric sleep, after his wife
and brothers, who had come to the office, had been greatly alarmed
about his condition. The man’s health must have suffered consider¬
ably by the exposure, as he shivered like an aspen leaf on awaken¬
ing, and had to be taken home in a cab.
IS SPIRITUALISM A RELIGION ?
BY EPBS SARGENT.
In some remarks made before the Psychological
Society of Great Britain, November 4th, 1875, the
President, Mr. Serjeant Cox, referred to Spiritualism
as both a religion and a sect. It is neither. We
should hardly call a body of electricians a sect; and
the fact that certain investigators of the supersensual
phenomena, now so common, entertain, till they can
find a better solution, the spiritual hypothesis no more
constitutes them a sect than those persons who hold
the Newtonian theory of gravitation are a sect.
Still less can Spiritualism be called a religion. We
no more impart, religion to a man by proving to him
that he will continue to exist after the dissolution of
his earth-body, than we should by proving to him, were
that possible, that he would live fifty years after the
age of thirty on this planet. It is merely a psycho¬
logical or physiological fact, and has relations to reli¬
gion only so far as we make the inspiring knowledge
the germs of great aspirations and of devout gratitude
to the Supreme Spirit whom we call God. Some one
asks, “ Are Spiritualists, with all their knowledge, any
better than other people?” Another complains:
“ Spiritualism has been more than a quarter of a cen¬
tury before the world, and it has given us nothing in
the shape of a philosophy ! ” And still another asks:
“ Why are there no great social reforms from Spirit¬
ualism ? ”
A little reflection will show that criticisms like these
are hardly pertinent. If a practical knowledge of the
great fact that when a man dies he shall live again is, of
itself, enough to transfigure and transform a man’s
heart, life, and soul, why are not the Chinese, the
North American Indians, and many savage tribes,
among whom Spiritualism is accepted as an undoubted
fact, elevated and reformed by the amazing knowledge?
• Why are not the many mediums, to whom the fact
of a future life is an assurance fixed and abiding, always
persons of saintly lives, great aims, and beneficent
acts ? It is simply because Spiritualism per se no more
introduces religion or principle into the mind of man
than did the Copernican system of the universe, when
it took the place of the Ptolemaic, and all creation
“ widened in man’s view ! ”
A knowledge of the fact of Spiritualism can never be
a substitute for those qualities of mind and heart, for
that culture and discipline, which make. the essential
differences in the characters of men. A revelation of
immortality made to the mind of a Jim Pisk would
hardly be the power it would be when presented to the
mind of a Pascal or a Channing. Certain mechanical
facts, lying dead and fruitless in an ordinary mind, led,
in the mind of James Watt, to the invention of the
Steam-engine; and certain psychical and physical phe¬
nomena arresting the attention of a mind like that of
Archbishop Whately, or like those of Elliotson and
Hare, Wallace and Wilkinson, make of them Spirit¬
ualists.
What folly is it then to talk of the “ failure ” of
Spiritualism, because it has not proved “ an angel of
salvation ” to all men indiscriminately, or because it
has not “ resulted in any organization or general con¬
cert of action for propagandism ! ” You cannot pour
water into a bottle any faster than the nature of the
vessel will allow; and you cannot make an instrument
of power of Spiritualism until minds are in a state, not
merely to receive it passively, but to appreciate it
actively.
It is the glory of Spiritualism that it is spreading and
leavening all creeds, and subtly preparing men for
great social changes and reforms, without any of the
ordinary devices of propagandism, or any of the threat¬
ening appeals and terrifying tricks of a religious revival.
We need no Moodys and Sankeys to get up a false and
fleeting excitement. We trust to the gradual silent
operation of an immense truth—acting on some minds
like an immediate inspiration, giving to life a new and
vast significance, but entering other minds simply as a
commonplace fact which they are not yet in a state to
appreciate and realize, but to the significance of which
they may some day awaken.
The prospect of immortal life, coupled with the
knowledge of the spiritual fact, supplies a basis for
morality and religion, just as the earth-life supplies a
basis for morality. Morality we regard as having
relations to our own mortal well-being and that of
others, as involved in our ojvn ; and religion we regard
as having relations to divine laws, to superior spiritual
intelligences, and to Deity itself. But just as a man,
in view of his limited earth life, may ignore all the
obligations of morality, so, in view of the life immortal,
he may ignore all obligations of morality and religion
combined. Truly does Bishop Butler remark : “ That
we are to live hereafter is just as reconcilable with the
scheme of atheism, and as well to be accounted for by
it, as that we are now alive is.”
To speak of Spiritualismseas a religion is, then,
a great mistake. On the contrary, it is just what we
choose to make it: an incentive to a higher, diviner,
more spiritual life, or a selfish brooding over possible
aggrandisement, power, and enjoyment in the future,
without love, without wise aspirations, and without
faith in absolute goodness—that is to say, without
faith in divine justice—without faith in God. The
woman of a savage tribe who compelled her sons to cut
off her head in order that she, as a spirit, might break
vengeance on an enemy of the family, was certainly a
good Spiritualist, but what can we say of the character
of her religion ?
Spiritualism, then, is not a sect, a religion, or an
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
organisation. It is hardly a science, except so far as
it offers the facts for a science; and it is not even a
philosophy, except in the sense in which human life
itself is a philosophy. Spiritualism, in one of its many
senses, is the characterisation of the hypothesis, or the
knowledge of a vast constituency of persons more or
less impressed by the spiritual fact; the fact, namely,
that there are spirits; that we are all spirits, now or
soon to be such, and that spirits out of the flesh can
communicate with those still flesh-bound.
This fact may lie very dormant and inoperative in
many minds. That it does so, we see every day. There
are many thousands of Spiritualists, so heedless, or so
immersed in secular preoccupations, that they do not
care to see a spiritual newspaper from one year’s end
to another, or to help the cause of truth in any way
that would involve the slightest expenditure of money
or of trouble. These persons may wake up by-and-
by before their life-opportunities are closed. It is to
be hoped they will. But what would be thought of the
good sense of the critic who should blame Spiritualism
for the apathy and shortcomings of Spiritualists ? As
well blame the Divine Love and Wisdom, because we
are not all receptive of them in like measure !
That there is a lack of interest and co-operation
among Spiritualists is no fault of the great fact of
Spiritualism itself. Well may it be a sour.ce of wonder
that persons upon the track of this momentous truth,
or who think they have reached it, are not more
earnest in their investigations and more willing to
impart results. Let us hail all intelligent researches,
all efforts to verify, co-ordinate, and systematise the
facts and phenomena which have justified the spiritual
hypothesis; all such valuable contributions as that of
Professor Denton in his recent experimental moldings
of spirit hands; of Mr. Beattie, of Bristol, in'his experi¬
ments in spirit photography; and of Messrs. Timkens
and Cunningham at St. Louis in the rifle-shot test.
Let us welcome all examinations into the subject on its
mental side, and thank even those enterprising students
who are trying to discover how much of truth there is
in the works of the old cabbalists, occultists, alchemists,
and magicians. The more societies and institutions
there are for the elucidation and discussion of the facts
of psychology and Spiritualism the better.
But the critics and the carpers may rest assured that
Spiritualism itself is a fact too divine and infinite to be
fenced in by any sectarian, religious, or organisation
lines; and those persons who look for any such result
will be doomed to continual disappointment. The
subject is broad as humanity—nay, as broad as humanity
and the spirit-world combined; and it cannot be
mapped out, circumscribed, and labelled by any human
convention, organisation, or body of managers. It
spurns all limits except those known to Omniscience
alone. We may make approximations to its truth, but
the finality is not for this life, and probably not for the
next. “ It is as high as heaven ; what canst thou do ?
deeper than hell; what canst thou know ?
The whole of the valuable collection of spirit-photographs be¬
longing to the gentleman well-known to Spiritualists as “M.A.
(Oxon),” are now on view at 38, Great Russell-street. The owner
has kindly lent them on the occasion of the late interesting discus¬
sions held at the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists
on Spirit Photography.
National Association Monthly Conversaziones. — The
Soiree Committee have passed the following resolution—“ That in
consequence of the Dalston soiree dansante having been fixed for
the 6th January, the usual monthly soiree of the National Associa¬
tion be postponed to the following Wednesday, Jan. 12th.”
TRANSACTIONS OP THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
On Monday evening last week, at one of the ordinary fortnightly
meetings of the members of the National Association of Spiritualists,
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraphic
Engineers, presided.
'SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
The Chairman remarked that he once thought that spirits
materialised themselves sufficiently to reflect the ultra-violet rays
of the spectrum, by which means they were able to impress their
images upon the sensitive plate of the photographer, although they
were not visible to the eye, but the information given at the last
meeting as to the possibility of such photographs being taken in the
dark, and without a lens, seemed to show that in reality the pictures
were chiefly produced by the will of the spirit.
Mr. Thomas Slater, the well-known optician, then read a paper
on spirit-photography, setting forth how, in the year 1856 or 1857,
the spirits told him that at a future time he would be able to pho¬
tograph them, a statement which he received with incredulity.
Years afterwards, however, ho obtained a likeness of a friend, also
of a well-known nobleman, through his own mediumship, with
nobody in the room but Miss Dickson. A portrait of. his departed
aunt, taken by Buguet, had be^n recognised by his sisters and
brother as a very good one; if it wore a sham picture, he did not
know how it had been done. In his experiments in spirit-photo¬
graphy he had sometimes used an indigo-coloured glass in his lens;
spirits had been taken when this lens was used, and they were
always more over-exposed than the sitters. The indigo glass in the
lens had a good influence in taking foliage, especially ivy, as it did
away with the glare. A likeness of his aunt, taken in the presence
of himself and Mr. Hudson, had also been recognised.
Mr. J. Traill Taylor, editor British Journal of'Photography, could
not see the use of an indigo lens after Mr. Parkes had at the last
meeting assured them that any lens at all was unnecessary.
Mr. Slater said that many of the public thought that it was im¬
possible to photograph a spirit at all, because a spirit could not be
seen; he therefore made the indigo coloured lens, to show them
that a mortal could be photographed, although his image could
scarcely be seen upon the ground glass of the camera.
Mr. Taylor added that the late Mr. Claudet had two negatives,
the one glazed with pale yellow, and the other with violet. The
latter produced photographs rapidly, while the one with the pale
transparent yellow glass would scarcely print at all. The glare
produced when photographing foliage was due to the polarisation
of the light by the leaves, and might be done away with by inter¬
posing a prism of Iceland spar.
Mr. Parkes said that if the friends present would try to get
spirit-photographs at home, many of them Would be successful.
Mr. Taylor remarked that on one of the negatives exhibited by
Mr. Slater, the spirits appeared as positives, showing the reversed
action of light apparently. He had spent a summer with the late
Mr. Guppy, trying to obtain spirit photographs, but without satis¬
factory results.
Mr. Slater remarked that one of the pictures he exhibited was a
sham; his spirits not only told him that he was being
imposed upon, but put the thing with which the sham picture
had been made into his hands; he was thankful to them for the
caution.
Mr. GeoYge King said that spirit photographs were apparently of
two kinds, one in which a materialised spirit was photographed in
the ordinary way, as by Mr. Crookes, and the other in which the
lens and the light seemed to have little or nothing to do with the
results. The idea that spirits reflected the ultra-violet rays seemed
also to be quite swept away by the evidence. He thought that ex¬
periments should be tried whether the clairvoyant sensitive could
see more of the solar spectrum than other people. A friend had-
asked him to try to ascertain whether information as to how
spirit photographs were produced could not be obtained from the
spirits.
Mr. Harrison expressed the opinion that spirits were not photo¬
graphed in consequence of the reflection of ultra-violet rays from
their bodies, otherwise every photographer in the kingdom would bo
getting spirits upon their plates, neither did they seem so. to ma¬
terialise themselves as to reflect these rays in abundance, because in
the majority of cases they did not appear at the backs of the sitters, but
almost always in front. If they were photographed in the way sug¬
gested, it would be immaterial to them whether they stood before or
behind the sitter.
Mr. 'Slater quite agreed with what Mr. Harrison had said.
Mr. Parkes said that many of the spirit photographs had a start¬
lingly suspicious appearance, but he never obtained one that appeared
to represent a mask. The appearances were so suspicious that had
it not been for the influence of spirits he should have left off bring-
icg the pictures under the notice of the public.
Mr. Tapp thought that to unscientific people the best evidence of
the genuineness of spirit photographs was that the pictures should
be clearly defined, and that responsible people should then recog¬
nise them beyond mistake as those of departed relatives of whom
the mediums had no previous knowledge. He had heard that Mrs.
810
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875
Fitz-Gerald, sen., had obtained one such through Mr. Hudson’s
mediumship.
The Chairman remarked that such had actually been the case,
and that the picture had absolutely proved to him the truth of
spirit photography. All the persons concerned were trustworthy
and of good character. The spirit of the father of a cousin of his
had proved his identity to that cousin at a seance, and asked her to
go to Hudson’s on a particular day, and to decide in what guise she
would like him to appear upon the photographic plate. When the
cousin was returning to town in order to sit for the photograph her
daughter was with her, and the latter suggested it would be a better
• test if she would inform her beforehand in what way she wished
the spirit to appear. She accordingly told her daughter that she
wished her father to appear in his black skull cap, with his hands
stretched out towards her. They went straight to Hudson’s studio,
and obtained a clear likeness of her father in the black skull cap,
so clear that everybody who knew him could recognise him beyond
all doubt.
Mr. Tapp remarked that it was a most incontestable case.
Dr. Hallock said that no better evidence could be desired.
Mr. Wedgwood said that he had taken his own marked plates to
Hudson’s, and had watched the process all the way through, and
obtained what he knew to be genuine spirit photographs.
Mr. Harrison remarked that Mr. Fitz-Gerald had given clear
evidence of the taking of a genuine spirit photograph, and Mr.
Slater had given clear evidence of the taking of a spurious one by
the same photographer. He (Mr. Harrison) had spent weeks in
inquiring into the authenticity of photographs alleged to represent
recognised spirits. In half the pictures he found the features to be
so indistinct that enthusiastic people could exercise their imagina¬
tion over them to any extent, and that was the case with half the
photographs about which strong reports were current amongst
Spiritualists. Of the remaining half many sitters denied that they
had ever recognised them as alleged, so after much trouble he could
only get good evidence in the case of one, and in that case the
person who gave the chief testimony had afterwards proved to be
untrustworthy. He was a person who once resided at Kingston-
on-Thames. Many weeks after he had made these inquiries the
Spiritual Magazine published a list of recognised spirit-photographs
in which were many of the cases which he had previously investi¬
gated, and at the expense of much time and hard work discovered
them to be untrustworthy. For instance, in that list the public
were informed that Mrs. Cooper and Mr. Shearwood had recognised
departed friends in their pictures, but on inquiring of these two wit¬
nesses he (Mr. Harrison) ascertained that they had never recognised
them at all. His argument from all this was that both verbal and
printed testimony about recognised spirit photographs should bo
received with caution.
| Mr. Wedgwood asked Mr. Harrison whether the face recognised
by the Comte de Bullet to be that of his sister was not a clear one.
Mr. Harrison replied*that it was, but that the French police had
produced a wooden dummyfrom which they asserted in open court
that the spirit face had been photographed.. Comte do Bullet denied
their assertion. Spiritualists ought to make every inquiry into
these particular cases. He thought that the Comte de Bullet’s tes¬
timony was by far the strongest, since the persons who made the
counter assertions were so ignorant and prejudiced.
Mr. Parkes thought that when the members of a family saw a
friend of theirs as a sitter they immediately began to guess who the
spirit near him might be, and might by accident have some points of
resemblance to the particular departed person. He had printed
many pictures, masking out the sitters so that the bust of‘the spirit
was alone to be seen. The features were then more likely to be
recognised in a trustworthy manner.
Mr. Harrison wished that, out of the great number he had obtained,
Mr. Parkes would send one photograph with clearly defined features
to the National Association, accompanied by documentary evidence
on the part of trustworthy people that the features were beyond
doubt those of a departed relative. The Association would be glad
of such evidence to frame and hang up for permanent reference.
Mr. Wedgwood said that the photograph of Mabel Warren,-
obtained in America, answered these requirements, and should be
retained and permanently exhibited.
Miss Kislingbury remarked that Mr. Alfred Bussell Wallace had
recognised the features of his mother in one of these spirit pho-
tographs.
Mr. Harrison thought that Mr. Wallace should be asked to write
a certificate to that effect, and that it should be hung up in the
National Association Booms in company with the photograph.
Mr. Calder said that Mr. S. C. Hall had obtained a good likeness
of his father, with a pigtail as worn by his parent in life.
Mr. Harrison said that he had heard rumours to that effect. He
wondered why, when those who obtained such pictures through
Buguet’s mediumship, made affidavits to be read before the French
law courts, in order to help the innocent Leymarie, Mr. S. 0. Hall
was about the only one who did not make an affidavit for the
purpose.
The Chairman announced that the meetings would bo resumed
late in January, and that friends who had had experience in physi¬
cal mediumship, and in mesmerism, were requested to send in
papers to the committee upon those subjects.
The proceedings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
MUSIC AT THE GATES.
A FUNERAL FOR SPIRITUALIST?.
Cease, gloomy bell, thy voice of sad despair,
Yield marriage music to the morning air;
Arise, sweet scent of flower and song of bird,
The psalm eternal of the spheres is heard!
Behold! the mystic throng-of souls draws nigh,
Soft suns assume new beautv in the sky:
The minstrelsy of hearts, self-saved and free,
Inspire and swell the fruitful, righteous glee.
The fair white morning of unending day
No v claims th« love and life of this loaned clay:
We give to earth her own—the passionless—
The spirit of the form lives bn to bless.
As doves fly home when loosed from alien hands,
Or swallows hunt for joys in austral lands,
So is the liberated spirit’s flight
Away from earth's hard winter and dark night.
W e need no gloom in caves, or cypress shades,
Bain no hot tears when autumn foliage fades;
The sigh we pause to urge comes not of fear—
The trembling is of love, and sweet to bear.
As herald snowdrops whiten earth’s warm spring,
And point to beauties later suns may bring;
So hallowed souls steal onward to the spheres,
Prepar’d to count the bless'd of after years.
How charm'd the scene; each mound an altar stands,
With God above, no priests save angel-bands:
Each prayer grows musical, and, like the rose,
The perfumed breath of charity bestows.
The prisoner-spirits have the free in sight,
And heroes share a pentecost of light:
The glow of youth, the wisdom of the sires,
Illume the clouds as weary day expires.
Bing out, ring out the old familiar songs !
Revive the spell of consecrated tongues!
The jubilee of love, and life, and peace
Is in our midst, and nevermore shall cease.
Blch laughing blast of trumpeters, awake!
Upon the current gales let music break!
Sing, birds! bloom, flowers! give concert to the day!
Immortal hosts grow strong through earth’s decay.
Albert-place, Peterborough. John T. Markley.
©orrespontietice.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
CITIES IN THE SPIRIT LAND.
Sir,—In a back number of T/te Spiritualist ‘‘ Inquirer” thus
writes: “ My soul longs to hoar something about the spirit state;
how its inhabitants live, what they do, what is seen there, and all
about it, for we are all going there soon.”
The teachings I have been privileged to receive upon this one
subject would till a volume, and are of the deepest interest. I have
copied a few extracts from messages about the cities in the spirit
land, and, if you can find room, and think it wise to insert them in
your journal, I believe many inquirers would feel interest in and
be helped by them.
The beginning of the description of the “ City of Zion ” was pub¬
lished in one of the early'numbers of Daybreak, in 1869. So I have
not sent that, as your space is too valuable to insert anything that
has already been published. The messages from which I now send
you extracts, were given to me in 1865 :—
.... Its beauty can never be conceived. Truly do all things
praise the Author of all this good. The rippling waters sing their
melodies of love. The flowers exhale their joyous thoughts, and teach
us of God’s works. Birds, the embodiment of the spirit prayer
life, float over this river, and from thence waft the songs of joy and
prayers to the throne of glory, from which will re-echo responsive
chords of ineffable glory. The “ City of Zion ” is of vast extent.
We could not enjoy our spirit-life devoid of flower life and beauty..
Therefore each temple or house is placed in a garden of transcen¬
dent beauty. They are all connected by a row of arches, and to
look through the vista thereof is marvellous. Divine beauty, Divine
love, Divine mercy, breathes through all, and speaks of peace
and joy.
Some arches are formed of precious stones, each one, as I have
told you, reflecting the thought of God. Stars of Divine wis¬
dom and love glance throughout the vista. Some arches are
formed of trees, whose inner vegetable life is clearly visible, and
the leaves of which are of delicious flavour, and give forth aromal
nourishment. Others are formed of flowers only. Seven, eight, or
twelve arches lie between the house and the temple.. ..
The four sides of the city, north, south, east, and west, have each
a magnificent bridge, spanning the river of the waters of life,* and
* Described at the beginning of the message as encircling the City.—
F J.T.
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
311
terminating on each side of the bridge in a gate formed of pillars
of precious stones. Designs, symbolic and Divine in teaching, are
given out in the smaller setting therein of every description of stone.
.This “ smaller setting ” is upon the surface of the pillar, and gives
the appearance of a painting, resembling in kind the paintings on
the walls of the houses of which I have told you.
The bridges are formed of precious stones, and the pavement
thereof, like the pavement of the city itself, is the ‘ ‘ thought of
God.” These gates are not intended to keep spirits from entering,
for they open at the desire or will of the spirit who is wishing to
enter, but they are symbolical of the passing on to higher wisdom
and knowledge—to a more exalted sphere....
Four principal streets cross the city, terminating by the gates to
the north, south, east, and west. Thus, as viewed from the higher
heavens, the four streets lie in the form of a cross. These so-
called streets are magnificent groves of sacred trees and symbols.
The ground thereof, bespangled with precious stones, gives forth
prismatic hues and words of life. Fountains of living waters adorn
every part of the city. The houses and the temples are alike
adornea and refreshed by them. At each entrance, and in the centre
of each building, does one arise.
Throughout these groves or streets are many of the richest
magnificence, beyond description beautiful, formed of all precious
glittering gems, star-like in form, and the waters are of every hue,
not invariably white. The verdure of floral life adorns the foun¬
tain itself, which both receives and yields refreshment and nourish¬
ment. These waters, at the desire of the spirits, become nectar,
which in the spirit .land corresponds to your wine on earth. The
rich vegetation is so ordered in its growth around these fountains
as to instil into the waters, their own aromal essences. By this
combination nectar of different kinds is made. Fear not, my child!
1 do tell you truly, as far as the earthly mind can comprehend things
of such wonder—such intense spirit life... .
There are here, and in fact throughout our spirit world, times and
seasons of especial joy, called “ holy days.” On such occasions great
influxes take place from the lower to the higher spheres, and a
decided translation of multitudes of spirits who have progressed
so as to be worthy of exaltation to the higher spheres and a
place. Then do arise songs of joy and of triumph, for Christ’s work,
commenced upon earth, is now completed. Such times and seasons
are known and marked in the City of Zion by a very wonderful and
entirely divine arrangement.
To the distant cities and localities there is, in appearance, hanging
over this favoured city, a rainbow-arch of magnificent splendour,
of wondrous dimensions, not stationary, but waving, entwining
circle within circle, forming, as it were, chains and links of the
most gorgeous hues.
To all those close at hand it is clear to the spirit sight that this
appearance is formed by a company of high spirits from the holiest
spheres, sent forth direct by the God over all, to minister, and by
their presence and the diffusion of their heavenly atmosphere to
spread abroad divine knowledge and love over, especially this cen¬
tral point of the Christ society and the river of life; from them as
from a vast reservoir, over the whole arcana of the spirit land, or
drops, as of dew, descend to our frail earth and revive the drooping
hearts of man, producing life in the midst of death.. .;
Chariots as of fire descend from the canopy or rainbow which
overhangs the city on these holy days, bringing into their midst
such as may be permitted to hold converse with the Christ society,
and also to convey such as are willing and ready to ascend to the
higher spheres.
Chariots, drawn by horses and other kinds of animals, here, as
on earth, are subservient to the spirit’s will and desire. To com¬
plete the life in the spirit land, with its occupations and require¬
ments, all such acquisitions are as necessary as on earth, only
always in a spiritual degree. Therefore is it not as easy and as
compatible with the Divine will to supply all such here as on your
earth?
Our animals bear a bright star upon their foreheads, and by that
mark become instinct with the degree of spirit life allgtted to them
in exactly the same way that all things here live. This is one most
beautiful form of life and variation in the beauty and wonders of
our spirit land. We have all kinds of winged birds, all kinds of
fleet-footed animals, also endowed with power of skimming the air
on wings as well as on foot. F. J. T.
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
[Messages of this kind have probably a symbolical meaning, and should
not be taken literally. We can vouch for the trustworthiness of the medium
through whom the above was given.—Ed.]
MKS. J. W. JACKSON’S CASE.
Sin,—Will you allow me space in your columns to plead the cause
of Mrs. J. W. Jackson ? I feel quite sure that were her sad case
more widely known, help would bo speedily given her and her little
ones.
My object in writing is to try to obtain a sum sufficient to put her
in the way of obtaining her own living, which she would be able1 to
do if help were given her at once. I therefore ask my numerous
kind friends to aid me by their help to free the wife and children
of one of the most noble of the earth, and to succour them in this
their time of need. I have seen one or two letters of Mrs. Jackson’s,
and am sorry to say her case is pitiable in the extreme. I shall
most gladly receive subscriptions to help her out of her difficulties.
P.8.—Having heard from Mr. Msbit, of Glasgow, that Hqfed will
be ready this week, all subscribers who have ordered copies through
me can have them on application at the Booms of the Association.
M. A. Everitt.
Lilian Villa, Hendon, N.W.
A CORRECTION.
Sir,—In your report of my remarks at the last meeting of the
Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, in
reference to Mr. Everitt’s work in the provinces, you make me say
that Mr. Everitt met with difficulties “ because the poorer Spirit¬
ualists there had been influenced by misrepresentations.” Permit
mo to say that your reporter entirely misunderstood me. I did not
utter a word either about “ poorer Spiritualists ” or “ misrepresen¬
tations.” „ E. Dawson Bogers.
December 20th, 1875.
[Some lengthy remarks were abbreviated at the special request of Mr.
Bogers, who said that Mr. Everitt had informed him that the Nottingham
Spiritualists had got it into their heads that the National Association
belonged to Mr. Harrison, which is the same thing as being influenced by
misrepresentations. In Nottingham and the Oldhamand Bradford districts,
such influences are for the present rampant, but in import places they have
been removed.—Ed.]
SPECULATIONS ON REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I read in your account of a seance with Mr. Wallis, in
which the subject of reincarnation was mooted, that the spirit
manifesting made the answer to Miss Kislingbury’s question—
“ How do you account for the superiority of great teachers over the rest
of mankind, if they had not had a previous existence? The Spirit—
“ I think I said before that at the birth of every child there are
spirits who influence it according to the degree of receptivity of
the parents. The results of spiritual influences are known to mortals
as conditions.”
To non-reincarnationists this answer will appear plausible at
first sight. I say at first sight, because on reflection it will pro¬
bably be found that the spirit was not very intellectual, seeing
that—
1st. This idea would do away with original faculties in man, and
would seem to imply a mean level to all intelligences, which is
contrary to the commonest experience.
•2nd. If this were the case, those teachers would fall into their
natural inaptitude as soon as the intuitive promptings of the
guardian spirits flagged even for one moment: also contrary to the
commonest experience.
3rd. If guardian spirits prompted the teachings, who taught
them. It is only removing the difficulty one step further.
4th. That intellectually gifted mediums and such men in general
should receive promptings from high spirits will probably seem
natural enough to Spiritualists, who know that in mental things
like attracts like; but that such men had no intelligence of their
own, but only what they borrowed from supermundane sages, will
not be so easily believed.
I also notice the following sentence in a letter in the same number,
on reincarnation:—“ Whether such spirits eject the embryonic
spirit hermit crab fashion from its tenement, or simply suppress it,
we are not, I believe, informed.”
The writer assumes that the spirit is embryonic, like its material
tenement. I regret I am not acquainted with the philosophy that
upholds this theory, except it be the “ Great Harmonia."
In that case there would be two philosophies antagonistic to each
other, whose respective merits would have to be weighed.
The idea expressed further on, that it would be shocking to a
mother’s feelings to suckle an infant which would not be really
her own, because the spirit would have lived before and have
had other parents, besides being somewhat materialistic, is not a
grave objection.
The fact of the spirit having lived before does not detract from
the spirit itself; and it is surmisable that there is always a great
connection between the spirit and its kinsfolk in many if not in all
existences.
I beg, finally, to refer to an argument that seems to have been
admired, with regard to this subject—viz., that among reincarna-
tionists are found many who say they have been Mary, Queen of
Scots, Alexander the Great, Peter the Great, &c.; but no John
Smiths. It may be scarcely necessary to say that this argument
does notimpugn reincarnation, but only human vanity, which would
manifest itself as surely in every other analogous case, the fact
being that such reminiscences cannot be considered otherwise than
untrustworthy.
Beincarnation being yet a theory, it will require some little
interest to be taken in the subjeet, in order that the facts which
may crop up in support of it may, instead of becoming dispersed,
be brought to bear upon it. Asi Henry Thomas Buckle says in
his “ Civilisation in England," vol‘. i., page 5 (edit, of 1871), in dis¬
coursing upon historians—“ This has been a great gain, in so far
as' it has familiarised historians with a wider range of thought,
and encouraged those habits of speculation which, though liable
to abuse, are the essential condition of all real knowledge, because
without them no science can be constructed.” .. B. P. J.
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.
THE HOLMESES’ SEANCES IN AMERICA.
We have received the following letter:—
Sib,—1 wish to call your attention to an article in the Gartenlaube,
a German periodical of very wide circulation, entitled “ Spiritistic
Ghost-humbug in the New World,” which contains, as you will
guess by the title, a violent attack upon American Spiritualism, and
relate, in proof of the absurdity of the movement, the whole of the
Holmes affair.
If the tale is true, as told* there, it is evident that a great many
Spiritualists have been made fools of, and as the outside public get
every in formation upon things which are derogatory to Spiritualism,
it is, h think, the duty of those who are, as it were, the mouth¬
pieces of the movement, to supply their readers with a coherent
statement of the whole case, giving them the entire truth,
extenuating nothing, so that they may be able to rebut any false
tales.
You have always set a good example in this respect, and I am
very sorry, therefore, that in this particular affair you have not
thought it worth your while to give a well connected narrative of
it. Of course the matter has been mentioned here and there, but in
a very skipping way. What, for instance, about the deposition upon
oath by the woman impersonating “ Katie King ” before Justice
Hanna? Is everything true stated therein? has it been corrobo¬
rated? or if contradicted, what is the nature of the evidence ?
We know that the widest publicity is given by the press to any¬
thing that is in any way damaging to Spiritualism, and that mis¬
statements are gladly accepted, and every art used in order to
make it look as bad as possible; it is therefore necessary on our
part to be very exact and explicit in our versions of any such oc¬
currences. If that is not done, we shall not know what to say if
these things are held before us as proof against the truth of
Spiritualism.
I know it has been the wont of late to speak in the “ I don’t
care ” way about the outside public, but too much so to my think¬
ing. Of course the fact of Spiritualism will be recognised sooner
or later, as such “ exposures ” cannot invalidate the positive evi¬
dence of those great scientific men, who have so thoroughly
investigated the phenomena; but it is not in the nature of man to
let adverse opinion have it all its own way, and it is very vexing
that our Spiritualistic organs should not,in this particular instance,
have given us all the information which is necessary in order to
know what is true or false in this disreputable affair.
Hoping that this will elicit the information required,
H. S.
The details of the Holmeses’ imposture, as at first published in
the Philadelphia newspapers, were reprinted in this journal. At
the close of the investigation of, the whole matter, Mr. Robert Dale
Owen, who was on the spot, and had the means of getting infor¬
mation tvhich those at a distance have not, came to the conclusion
that undoubtedly there was some imposture mixed up with the
seances which he had witnessed, also that some of the manifesta¬
tions were reab; he further said that he could not undertake to
separate that which was true from that which was false. The
Holmeses were powerful mediums; they were also arrant swindlers;
under the impulse of the moment they were capable at times of
generous acts ; in short, when mediums of this kind get under the
control of evil spirits they become moral imbeciles in their utter¬
ances, scarcely knowing the difference between truth and falsehood,
just like Buguet in Paris, who recently, on the spur of the moment,
swore to anything that suited his own purpose against M. Ley-
marie, an innocent man, who in all probability will consequently
be committed to prison. The results in America were equally
serious, Mr. Robert Dale Owen having been- brought into great
trouble, and the whole movement covered by a cloud for a time.
Mrs. Carpenter, of Boston, has committed equally reprehensible
acts; although from inexperience on the other side of the water as
to the nature of powerful mediums when acting under the influence
either of evil spirits or of their own passions, she has escaped that
censure on the other side of the Atlantic which she deserves for
bringing the spiritual movement into disgrace, and for taking care
that her false charges should be printed in the Boston daily papers.
That Colonel Olcott obtained phenomena under test conditions
with the Holmeses is not for a moment disputed by us; we knew hd
would get them before he made the attempt, because the Holmeses
had been well tested here, and in some cases in such a way as to
show beyond doubt that they possessed great medial powers. It
should be remembered that there are numbers of people who
cannot look at both sides of a question, who think that if upon one
occasion they obtain genuine manifestations with a medium, there¬
fore another person who at another time obtained imposture, must
have brought a false charge. The true determination of such
questions depends entirely upon the amount of the experience of
tho individuals as to the nature of powerful mediumship and
mediums, more especially when the latter come under bad influences
of some kind.
As Mr. Dale Owen, who was on the spot, came to the conclusion
that the statements of Mrs.. White, the medium who sometimes
acted Katie King—and, the statements of the Holmeses were utterly
worthless, unless confirmed by the evidence of some truthful
person,—we have not felt it to be within our province to wade
through all the mud in tho endeavour to separate the false from the
true. Mr. Owen being on the spot, had the means of knowing the
amount of dependence to be placed on the evidence of the different
witnesses in the case, and any experienced lawyer can certify what
plausible and conclusive evidence can be brought forward by
enthusiastic witnesses, whose testimony is known by the clear¬
headed to be practically worthless. There is no mistake as to the
principle involved, and as to the main facts of the case, but to go
into details is unnecessary.
During the recent experiments made by Mr. Redman at the
Brixton Psychological Society, a young man was seen to walk
about the room apparently in full possession of his senses, but all
tho time he was a most ridiculous and helpless dummy in tho
hands of the mesmerist. There appears to be no evidence that
when powerful physical mediums do wrong, they may not be in
the same condition, although the spirit controlling them is unseen;
hence the necessity of a knowledge of mesmerism for the protection
of honourable people in the spiritual movement, also for the pro¬
tection of the mediums. It is absolutely necessary that experiments
should be largely made in public by all the spiritual societies in
this country, in order to familiarise the spectators with the facts of
mesmerism; this would save the spiritual movement heavy blows
and great discouragements in the future.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist''1
Sib,—I beg leave to address an urgent appeal to all and every
of our friends in England who had spirit-photographs taken by
Buguet, to send at once to Madame Leymarie, No, 7, Rue de Lille,
Paris, a copy of each one thus obtained by them, with their names
ancLaddresses, and a short attestation of the fidelity of the photo¬
graphs as likenesses of their deceased friend or relatives, either
endorsed on the cards or else declared on a sheet gummed to the
back of the card. They will all be safely returned after the intended
use shall have been made of them. This is of course independent
of the signing of the Memorial, which, I trust, will be done as
extensively as possible. If they can add mention of any extraneous
circumstance as confirmatory of the likeness (such as that of the
“ apple,” and that of the pigtail ”) so much the better.
The object of this request is this. The theory of the prosecution
and of the judges was that all Buguet’s spirit-photographs were
shams; that they all came out of the box in which was found a
collection of about 150 card-board heads, which he used to stick on
the neck of a mannikin, which he would then drape at pleasure.
We know the truth to have been that many were genuine, and that
only a portion were fraudulent. Several efforts were made, both
during the instniction and before the trial, to get sight of the collec¬
tion of heads in the box so as to compare them with various
portraits unquestionally genuine; but this permission was always
refused, even to Leymarie’s counsel. After the final disposal of the
case by the Court of Cassation, there canno longer be any plausible
pretext for continuing to refuse it. We want to collect as large a
number as possible of genuine and attested portraits, and to be able
to show that no originals for those heads existed in the famous
box. It will be a satisfaction to the owners of the portraits to
receive that' assurance, as confirmatory of their own recognition
of the likenesses, while it will materially help the case to be sub¬
mitted to the President of the Republic, in whose prerogative of
grace now lies Leymarie’s only hope or chance. I hope none
of our English friends will neglect immediate compliance with this
request.
The case in Cassation may come on any day. The rejection of
the pourvoi en cassation is inevitable. That court cannot go behind
the facts as declared by the court below. They can only quash the
proceedings if there has been any defect of form, or any misappli¬
cation of the law to the facts. Leymarie’s lawyer told me of a pre-»
cedent in his own experience, which makes Leymarie’s case utterly
hopeless. A boy had been condemned (in Algeria) to penal servi¬
tude for life. There is a law that no person under 16 years of age
can be so condemned. The boy had been found to be of that age,
so that the legal adaptation of the penalty to the fact (as existing
for the court below) was all right. But the counsel submitted to
the Court of Cassation conclusive evidence that he was only thirteen
years of age, and claimed the benefit of the law. He was answered
that it would make no difference if he was only thirteen months.
The Court of Cassation had nothing to do with the facts. For it
he was sixteen, and would have been sixteen if he had been brought
into court in his nurse’s arms. Absurd! you exclaim. Absurd,
indeed, but what of that? We cannot blame the Court of Cassa¬
tion. It is the fault of the law under which it exists, for other pur¬
poses than the rectification of facts erroneously declared by courts
below. It is vain to show that Buguet has since retracted his false
testimony. It is equally vain to show that, even on the testimony
as adduced on the trial, it was monstrously unjust to condemn, and
plainly against the evidence. In the tribunals of “ Correctional
Police ” the discretionary appreciation of the evidence by the judge
is absolute and conclusive. -J. L. O’Sullivan.
The little book entitled Buddhism and Christianity, a review
of which appeared in this journal last week, is written by a well-
known Spiritualist. It may be procured of the publisher, Mr. J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, or at 38, Great Russell-street.
Dec. 24, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
111
A CHRISTMAS GATHERING FOR BIRMINGHAM
SPIRITUALISTS.
B. J. W. MAHONYbegs to announce to the friends
in Birmingham and district that ho is making arrangements for a
Christmas gathering, to take place on Monday, December 27th, 1875, at the
Atheneeum. Temple-street. Tea on the table at half-past five o’clock. After
tea Mr. Mahony will recite the following popular pieces:—“Charge of the
Light Brigade” (Tennyson), “The Heart’s Charity’’ (Eliza Cook), “The
Field of Waterloo ” (Byron), “ Better than Gold,” Dimes and Dollars,” and
the celebrated piece on the Irish Rebellion of 1798, entitled “ Shamus
O’Brien.V Mr. Pyvies will exhibit his beautiful dissolving views and spirit-
photographs by lime-light. Several friends with ability have promised
their services to enhance the enjoyment of the evening. Music, singing,
dancing, and Christmas games will be included in the programme.
Tickets Is. each, which may be obtained from Messrs. Gowe, Perks,
Gifford, Turner, Smith, Rooke, J. W. Russell, and Mr. Mahony, 1,
Cambrian-place, Anglesey-street, Lozells.
Admission after tea 6d. each. Entertainment to commence at seven.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCE WITH MR. MORSE.—Mr. Morse has kindly
volunteered to give one of his trance Seances for the benefit of the
Association, on Thursday evening next, Dec. 23rd, to members of the
Association. Admission 2s. The purchaser of each ticket will have the
right of introducing a friend. To commence at 7.30.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
USICAL BOX.—The raffle for the Musical Box,
advertised last week, will take place at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Monday evening next, at a quarter before 8 o’ clock p.m. Subscribers who
desire to be present are requested to accept this notice. E. Kislingbury,
Secretary.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS.
THE “ STURMBERG” PL ANCHETTE writes answers
to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not, all should judge
for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont, 59a, Oonsti-
tutlon-hill, Birmingham, 8s., 5s. 6d., 4s. 4d., 2s. 9d., and Is. 9d. post free.
MAGNETIC HEALING.
LADY MAGNETISER attends patients at their own
homes for Headache, Neuralgia, Sore-throat, Gout, Rheumatism,
Sprains, &o. To Public Singers and Speakers the benefit is invaluable.
Letters to Mrs. Newton, 53, Hollywood-road, West Brompton, S.W.
Mr. j. humby, galyanist and magnetic
HEALER, attends patients by appointment at their residences.
Very successful in nervous and other diseases. Highest references and
testimonials. Address, Parade House, Grosvenor-road, Pimlico, S.W., or
4, Cottage-grove, Stockwell, S.W.
Psychopathic institution for the cure
OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”*
healer in attendance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, U.S., will,
early in January, commence the publication of a translation of the
works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it is devoting considerable space to
Occult Philosophy. Subscriptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from
America. Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to 'whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
' All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will cbme out in a few weeks’Jime.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.—Rivista
Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published on the 15th of every
month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
EOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
IT has been often a source of remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freetb inking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a centralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
CENTRAL HOME FOR SPIRITUALISM,
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man¬
chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to offer, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITUALISTIC CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &o., as may be
afterwards determined, together witff a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library.
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN.!)
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE INSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent Income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty members, at a subscription of
2s. 6d. per month, or 7s. 6d. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, &c., is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, who
will also act as secretary.
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Ordsdll-lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, PRO TEM.
Mb. Chiswell,
„ Gbobge Dawson,
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Akchibald Proctor,
„ Thomas Perris,
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tem.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. '
TO MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be glad of
an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky, U.8., in
December, 1872, if he will kindly send his address to G. J. Smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till called for.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist m&y obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
begs to inform inquirers and others, that he is prepared to attend
Private Seances at the houses of investigators, and give unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given by him
before the members of “ The Brixton Psychological Society.*’ For terms
and particulars apply by letter to Professor Redman, Brixton-hill, S.W
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiqueb,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st of every month. Pries,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 24, 1875.*
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearebs for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Dayies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitohmaq, Messrs. John Priest.
B. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hiiton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
Cjjje Spratalxsf SUfosjiapr,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words,-and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass'of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mi’. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
TESTIMONIAL TO ME. "W. H. HAEEISON.
Committee.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelina von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large ubscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Bums,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last tnree years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlenjen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr, Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to November 15th,
Mr. Martin R. Smith  £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn     50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze   50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne  .'.  40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   20 0 0
A Friend   ;  20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod    .'  20 0 0
Comte de Bullet    20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A..,   5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S.     5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M!.D  5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe   5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey     5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald  5 0 0
Signor Damiani  '.... 3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood .'  2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S  2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery    2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D ."  2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ’’   2 2 0
Three Friends    2 2 0
Col. Olcott     2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent  2 0 0
Dr. Baikie      2 0 0
Miss Douglas        2 0 0
M. H. C        2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh    2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King..*    110
Mr. F. A. Binney   110
Mr. J. Coates  1  110
Mrs. Maltby    110
Mrs. Eislingbury      110
Mr. B. W. Pycock    110
Mr. B. Coleman    110
Mr. R. Fitton       110
Major Menars      110
Mr. John Lamont      110
* Mr. Archibald Lamont   110
Mr. T.B. Griffin    110
Mr. J. B. Stones    110
Mr. J. Regan    1 10
Mrs. Regan     110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese        110
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear    11 0
Mr. C. E. Williams      110
Mr. A. Glendinning  110
Mr. H. Withall     110
Captain James     1 1 0
Mr. F. W. Percival  5   110
. Mr. Christian Reimers   1 1 0
Mr. Thos. Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant  110
Mrs. Geo. Neville i  110
Mr. G. R. Tapp      11 0
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson   110
Mr. Woodforde    .'  110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss   110
A Friend    1 10
A Friend, per Miss Williamson    110
Mr. W. P. Adshead    110
Mr. D. H. Wilson  j£  110
Mrs. M.T. Wood  110
Baroness von Vay  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan    10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder..,.      10 0
A Subscriber       10 0
Amicus  1 0 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton...^.  10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)      .’   10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee       0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett      0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands   d 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp      1  0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald  0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock      0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton    0 10 0
J. F. C      0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy     0 5 0
Miss Eislingbury     0 5 0
“Peterboro’'    050
A. O. W.     0 5 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
