[ItEGISTEBED AS A’’i^6W?>PirEIU
,S>f!) JOU^K®I< Otf ^^YdfiO^OG^ldS^ ^dl^>fcis<.
C^e #Ib^st Jl^fosppr ramw-deb bdfj Sptrdttaltsm in #reni !5rii;thr.
N0. 177. —(Vol. VIII.—No. 2).
LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1876.
Published V/eekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XLVI  13
The Spiritualism of Hiram Powers  14
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury 14
Transactions of tbe National Association of Spiritualists:
—Meeting of the Council—New Members—Finance
Committee’s Report- Correspondence—Mesmeric Ex¬
periments—Report of the Library Committee—Prize
Essays—Spiritualism in the Provinces  16
Literary Notice:—Diary, Reminiscences, and Correspon¬
dence of Henry Crabb Robinson, F.S.A N 17
A/Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken   18
Poetry:-Ode       '  Jg is
Correspondence:—The Problem of the Pro existence of
the Spirit—Incarnation and Reincarnation—The Theo-
sophical Society of New York—Mesmerising Me¬
diums—“Mesmerism Extraordinary”—Angels, Spirits,
and Men—The Development of Mediumship—Private
Seances in Manchester—Spiritualism in France - Pro¬
fessor Tyndall on the Development of Clairvoyance
in the Human Species—Social Reforms—The Alleged
Influence of Will-power at Seances  18
Proof of a Future Life Needed. By Eugene Crowell, M.D. 23
Winter Meetings of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. By George King  24
Provincial News :—Newcastle-on-Tyne ...    24
The Notional Association of Spiritualists and the Spirit¬
ualist Press     24
New Publications  ..   24
Answers to Correspondents     24
Paragraphs:—Mr. Robert Dale Owen, 16; A Misanthropi¬
cal Medium, 17; Spiritualism in Dalston    ... 23
Cjj* lt/eixrsp!J,er,
Established in 1869.
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, tobeaddressed to Mr. J. gel wood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for tbe Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. Tbe Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, nost
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of iOs. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
aud 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds
Stocks Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on
Saturdays from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTAELiSHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SiMBKIN, MASSHAIL & CO.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism.” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hi’chman,
. “ Fritz,’' T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently prodneed by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edgeei. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
SPIRITUAL BAZAAR IN BIRMINGHAM.
SPIRITUALISTIC PROPAGANDA.
THE SOCIETY OF SPIRITUALISTS,
operating at the Athenreum, Temple-street, Birmingham,
purposes holding a small Bazaar, or Sale of Useful and Fancy
Articles, at tbe Athenaeum, on Monday, January 24tb, to open
at Three o’clock p.m., and to conclude with a Concert and
Miscellaneous Entertainment, commencing at Eight p.m. This
Entertainment will be of a superior character, two or three
professional singers having kindly promised their services.
The proceeds of the Bazaar and Entertainxient are intended
to form the nucleus of a fund for Building a'Lecture Hall and
Spiritual Lycenm; said fund to be increased by Entertain¬
ments, Seances, and otherwise, during the next two years.
Any contributions of money or goods for the Bazaar will be
thankfully received by either of the following ladies:—Mrs.
Groom, 166, St. Vincent-street; Mrs. Foley, 288, Icknield-
street, West; Mrs. Harper, Soho-hill, Hinds worth; Mrs.
Sunderland, 67, Bull-street; Mrs. Hill, 224, Bristol street; Mrs.
Starling, 160, Lozells-roa fi, Hands worth. Robert Harper
(Soho-hlll), Treasurer.
BIRMINGHAM.—Oa Sunday, January 9th,
the Monthly Tea Party will be held at the Athonseum,
Adults 9d., Children 6d.; after which there will bo a
Conference and Experience Meeting, when Messrs. Judd,
Turner, and others will give passages from their experience.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visl ms.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Cor tentions.
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
• XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
ANNALl DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologiea di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23,
LE MESSAGER, a fortnighlly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Caihedrale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REYUE SPIR1TE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiqres, fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston,
U.S., will, early in January, commence the publication
of a translation of the woiksof H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it
is devoting considerable space to Occult Philosophy. Subs¬
criptions, I3s. per annum, including postage, from America.
Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the !• piriiual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Hamer s a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; edi.orial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &C., &e. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Ruesell-street, London, W.C.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
Tb:e SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D.. etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, aud contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanem interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
AGENDA FOR JANUARY.
Monday, 3rd.—Offices and Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
Wednesday, 5th.—Dalston Society’s Soiree Dansante at
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street. The
soiree ot the B N. A. S., usually held on the
first Wednesday in the month, is therefore
postponed tiil the second Wednesday.
Monday, 10th.—Lectureand l>iscussionCoaimiiteeat6p.m.
Tuesday, 11th.—Prize Essay Committee at 5.30.
„ „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
. „ ijj Ci/uneil Meeling at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 12th.—Soiree at 6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation
and Refreshments. Open to Members and
Friends; admission 1 s.
Friday, 14th.—Seance for Enquirers at 7.30 p.m. Mr. O.
E. Williams, Medium.
Monday, 17th.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m,
Tuesday, 18th.—Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
., „ Provincial Societies Committee at 7 p.m.
Monday, 24th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m. Free to
Members and Subscribers.
Members of Commit!eesate requested to attend themeetings
mentioned in the above list, without further notice. Tney
will be further advised of any Special Meetings which it may
be necessary to convene during the month.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
6, Loughborough Road North.
Tuesday, 4th.—Council Meeting at 8 p.m.
Wednesday, 12th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Friday, 14th.—Annual Soiree at the Assembly Rooms,
Islington. Chair at 8 o’clock. Admission Is.
Every Sunday.—Public Meetings at the Islington Assembly
Rooms, at 3 and 7 p.m. Trance Mediums
from all parts of England.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Offices and Library Committee:
Mr. Thos. Everitt. Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Roger?, Mr.
E. T! Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman,
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Kislinebury, Mrs. Desmond
Fi'Z-Gerald, Miss H. Withall. Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:.
Mr. H. Withall, Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse.
Lecture and Discussion Committee:
Mr. Geo. King, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. T.
Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton.
Seance Committee: '
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. S. Chinnery, Mr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr. Morell Theobald. Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation ot these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics. They will recommence on
Monday, January 24th at 7.30 o’clock, and will be held fort¬
nightly until the end of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to send them at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, W C.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, Jan. 12th., 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W. C.
Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at ,the request, and for
the benefit of Spiritualists who desire opportunities Of meeting
friends and members, and of discussing matters of interest
connected with the Spiritualistic movement.
Mnsic and other entertainments will be provided at each
meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of
interest is requested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the
resident secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Itussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
East London spifitoal meeijNGs.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunfiay evening, at Savon o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan, 14, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, IMdsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.IV.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-parlc, AV.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, AV.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedfovd-hill, Balham, S.AV.
Hitchman, William, M.U.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Xslington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, AVarwick-square, S.AV,
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, AV.
Smith, Martin R„ Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, l8,Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.AV.
AVason, James, AVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, AV. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,NewAVandsworth, S.AV.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vieuna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Aranbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, AV.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New AVandsworth, S.AV.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.AV.
Freeman, Joseph, 6. Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hlnde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Keimington-
park, S.E..
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Grauville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammer¬
smith. AV.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Rlehmond-terraee, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.K.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's
Park., N.VV:
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, 2, Hendon-rd., Church-end, Fincliley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Ivent-
road, S E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. AV. F., J. House,lAVoolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex. !
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds. . .
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, AV.
AVithall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
AVithall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden..
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople. '
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Aray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L.' V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E, Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, (jjinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
■ U.S.A. ..
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210,■ Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue'du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. HaUock, 46, Heret'ord-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecoryp, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzlierzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
‘Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Beitish National Association of Spikitualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to;
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was fonned in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied,, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in AVoburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT BUS3ELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected wi*h Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.;
Monthly, 5s.
A <Seance-room can he engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. TRANCE PAINTINGS.—Several
small oil-paintings, in gilt frames, executed in the trance by
the celebrated medium, David Duguid, of Glasgow, and re¬
presenting Scotch scenery, are now ON SALE at 38, Great
Russell-street, at greatly reduced prices, varying fi om 20s. to
35s. Application to be made to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. FOR SALE.—A variety of Musical
Boxes of superior quality, to be sold for the benefit of the
Funds of the Association. In good order, containing eight
airs each. Maker, Nicole, Geneva. Price, £6 6s. The style
of box and selection of music at the choice of the purchaser.
Apply to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street Bloomsbury,
W.C.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers,
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
Instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home dally, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at .8 o’clock each evening.
Address as ahovs.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium
AND MEDICAL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationxle of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinen. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardent, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms owapplication by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E. .
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Onrative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication < f
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.-^Bamford Brothers,
Physical Mediums, will give Seances as follows:—On
Monday and Wednesday evenings, at 7 o'clock p.m., admission
2s. 6d ; on Saturday evenings, at 7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton,
Macclesfield.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs to inform inquirers and others that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of * The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
Mesmerism and electro-hiology.—
Complete Instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-
Biology, with full and explicit directions for the production of
all the different phases of these marvellous and mysterious
Psychological Phenomena. Private Instructions personally or
by Post. For terms, address, Mr. E. H. Valter, Claremont-
villa, 51, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6J.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
EOR the CURE OF NERYOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coatbs, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granviile-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS
ON
Spiritualism, Psychology, Mesmerism, Anthropology,
Mental Physiology, and Kindred Subjects,
Are on sale at the Branch Office of The SpirituMd News¬
paper, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Booksellers and others who have Works upon these -ubjec’s
are requested to forward their Lists by post to the Manager.
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with il ustratious of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship Contains original articles written expreESly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.8.A.,, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Frhz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Oalder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., <fcc. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,” “Cat
Bono," “ The Healing Power,” “ Spiritualism in Every-day
Life," ‘ The B n fleent Aspect of Spiritualism," On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle." Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol, Single copy, peat
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for fiee distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
% xtf tl nrib uf
Yoj.uj^e Eiqht. Kumber Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14th, 1876.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.* j
NO. XLVI. !
[ The subject of antagonistic influence by the adversaries was ! 1
continued.'] ! <
In what has now been said, we have but recapitulated what I j
has been said before of the organised opposition from those I <
who are our opponents. But one special form of attack, |
which will become more and more frequent, we have not yet | <
dealt with. As objective spiritual manifestations become U
more and more frequent, and as the inconsiderate craving for I \
them increases, so will it come to pass that powerful instru- j
ments will be developed through whom our adversaries may jj
be enabled to produce their frivolous or tricky manifestations, j
so as to discredit the true spiritual work. This is one of the |
special forms of opposition, and the most dangerous : for in
proportion to the undeveloped character of the spirit will be !
its power over gross matter, its cunning, and, in some cases, |
its malignity. Powerful agencies are even now at work, as j
we are assured, who will seize every opportunity of develop- j
ing mediums through whom phenomena the most startling n
may be produced, so as to convince the inquirers of super- |
natural power so called. This done, the rest is easy. By |
degrees trick and fraud are allowed to creep in, the moral I
teachings are allowed to appear in their true light, doubt is j <
insinuated, and the uncertainty and suspicion^which have jj
become the fixed attitude of the mind regarding phenomena j j
which at first seemed so surely spiritual, gradually extend to j (
all manifestations and teachings. ij
No more sure means of discrediting the teaching of those | j
who are sent to instruct, and not merely to astonish or amuse, j j
was ever devised by cunning. For men say: We have tried, j
we have tested for ourselves, and we have found it out. jj
Either it is connected with fraud, or it teaches base and j j
immoral doctrines, or it is full of falsehood; in short, it is j j
diabolical. It is no use to appeal to such, and tell them that j
they must discern between the true and the false, for their j v
shaken faith will not allow of this. They have proved what j j
they trusted to be false, and the whole edifice of their belief j j
lies in ruins around them. The foundation is not secure, and j j
will not support the building. j j
We say again that no more diabolical device for paralysing j j
our work was ever planned. We solemnly warn you of it. j
See to it that you act upon our warning. Beware of jj
encouraging the promiscuous evolution of violent physical jj
power. Such comes generally from the lower and more i j
undeveloped; and its development is frequently attended by jj
spirits for whose absence you should pray. In the encourage- j j
ment, especially in newly-formed circles, of undue care for j j
physical marvels is a great risk. Such are necessary to the j j
work, and we do not in any degree undervalue their import- jj
ance to certain minds. We desire to bring home evidence jj
to all; but we do not desire that any should rest in that j (
material form of belief in an external something which is of j j
little service to any soul. We labour for something higher I j
than to show curious minds that we can do badly under jj
certain conditions what man can do better under other con- jj
ditions. Nor do we rest content even with showing man that j j
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an accouit was printed of some phenomena ir
which occurred in a private circle held at the house of Dr. Stanhope Speer, 13, Alexandra- j}
road, Finchley-road, N. VVn through the mediu mship of a gentleman who is known to Spirit- | ?
ualists under the ndm de plume of “ M.A. (Oxon).” A mass of evidence as to identity given up j /
to that time has since been greatly increased, and in all cases where verification is possible, i /
the statements made have been found to be literally accurate. This has been the case when ! /
extracts from rare works have been laboriously authenticated in the library of the British i)
Museum. Evidence being so given of the independent action of spirit, and of the freedom I)
of the messages from colour by the medium's thoughts, it has been thought well to print !)
selections from a great mass of “ Spirit Teachings ” which have been from time to time j)
written out automatically through his hand. The communications so given extend over j 1
three years, and are principally concerned with theBeligious Aspects of Spiritualism. They j)
are the work of many spirits, each of whom preserves his individuality, even to the pecu- I)
iarity of the writing used. The opinions are frequently the reverse of those held by the i)
medium, and are written (as far as can be ascertained) without aid from his mind. The j i
hand is automatically moved, even though the brain be occupied about other work. Great j)
care has been taken to provide conditions under which reliable messages can be j)
obtained.—[Ed.] '
beings external to himself can interfere in the order of his
world. If that were all, he might be so much the worse for
knowing it. We have before us one sole aim, and that alone
has brought us to your earth. You know our mission. In
days when faith has grown cold, and belief in God and
immortality is waning to a close, we come to demonstrate to
man that he is immortal, by virtue of the possession of that
soul which is a spark struck off from Deity itself. We wish
to teach him of the errors of the past, to show him the life
that leads to progress, to point him to the future of develop¬
ment and growth.
It is not with such an end before us that we can tamely
allow our work to be set aside for the development of any
strange phenomenal power that spirits may possess over
gross matter. If we use such power at all it is because We
find it necessary, not because we think it desirable, save
always as a means to an end. Were it harmless we should
say so much. But being what it is, an engine of assault
from the adversaries, the worst we have to dread, we are
urgent in warning you against promiscuous seeking after
these physical marvels, and against resting in them as the
end and aim of intercourse with us.
Regard them only as means of conviction, as so many
proofs to your minds of actual intervention from the world
of spirit with the world of matter. Look upon them as such
only, and use them as the material foundation on which the
spiritual temple may be built. Rest assured that they of
themselves can teach you no more than that; nay, if the
operating spirits find in you no capacity to grasp more, they
will gradually give way to those who can do such work better
than they can, and so the means of further knowledge will
pass away. From that basis you must go on to further steps.
You must seek to know of the nature of the agency, of its
source and intent. Surely you would desire to be assured
that it is of God, beneficent and pure in origin and intent.
Surely you would seek to know how much the visitors from
beyond the grave can tell you of that universal dwelling-place of
your race; how they can satisfy you of your own souTs
destiny, and of the means by which you may best fit your¬
self for the change which you call death. For if we be not
as you, how is our experience fruitful to you ? If we cannot
tell you of your own immortality, what profits it that we
prove to you never so conclusively that we ourselves exist ?
Such may be a curious fact; it can never be more.
When you can reach out beyond the phenomenal to the
actual investigation of Truth for its own sake—when, in
. short, you can believe our pretensions—then we can open
out to you a realm of which you are yet ignorant, and Much
has been far more fully revealed to earnest seekers in other
lands than yours. To few only in your land have the higher
revealings of spiritual truth been vouchsafed. Even this
means of communing by writing, which seems to you such
an advance on the clumsy rapping out of messages and such
material means of communication, is as nothing, compared
with the inner communing of spirit with spirit without the
intervention of material signs. In America, the land from
which dates this movement in your days, there are many
who have been so far developed as to lead a dual life, and to
hold face to face intercourse with us. We have even now a
band of workers there who are achieving results which we
cannot command here through faithlessness of mind, mate¬
riality of interests, and even grossness of atmospheric sur¬
roundings. It is not with our work as with your mundane
affairs. We read the heart, and it is useless to feign interest
which you do not feel—that you would not do—or to proceed
on our way while faith is lacking. It has been so in all
ages of the world. Efforts have been made from time to
time to pour in advanced knowledge; it has been found that
the time was not come, and the effort has been withdrawn;
H
Bat this is not what we wish to say. We desire only to warn
you against a danger, and to encourage you to rise above
the material to the spiritual plane. Receptivity must pre¬
cede higher development: but we yearn and pray for the
time when you shall have shaken yourselves free from
earthly trammels, and seek only after the higher revealings
of Truth. To that end you must have singleness of pur¬
pose : you must have shaken yourselves free from human
opinion, and have dissociated yourselves from the material
plane, so far as an occupant of earth may do so.
Eternal Father ! Thou in Whose Name we work, and for
the revealing of Whose Truth we are sent to earth, enable us
to elevate and purify the hearts of those to whom we speak,
that they may rise from earth and open their spiritual
senses to discern the things which we reveal. May Faith
grow in them, so that they may aspire to Truth, and, leaving
earthy interests behind, press on to learn the Revelation of
the Spirit. + Imperator.
[/ remarked that I had no doubt that all that was said was
true, and I added that I had difficulty in understanding why
some law and order did not obtain on the spiritual side, so as
to curb those unruly spirits. They seemed to do what they
pleased, and to be under no governance. Also 1 expressed my
wonder at their false statements. I could not see why a spirit
should take pleasure in personation.~\
You err in supposing there is no law and order with us.
It is that the neglect of conditions on your part frustrates
orderly effort. You must learn to fence your circles round
with proper conditions, and then you will eliminate half the
trickery and contradiction. The time will not come when
all that you call evil-will be wiped out; for this is a matter
of spiritual training, and we have no power to save you from
the process, which is for your progressive development. It
is necessary that you pass through it. You have much to
learn, and this practical experience is one of the ways of
learning.
As to personation you will learn more hereafter. For the
present we tell you that there are spirits who delight in
such personation, and who have the power, under certain
conditions, of carrying out elaborate deception. Such take
names which they see to be desired, and would reply equally
to any name given them. They may usually be excluded
by a careful attention to conditions, and by the efforts of a
strong guardian who is able to protect the circle. Those
who sit frequently and in open circles, where no care is taken
of the spiritual conditions, and who have no powerful spirit
friends to protect them, are in danger of incursion from
these. In most circles, as far as we know, every facility is
given for the intervention of tricky spirits. The phenomena
are sought after in a spirit of mere curiosity. Personal
friends are greedily summoned, and no pains taken to ascer¬
tain whether the spirit answering be indeed a friend or a
deceiver. Foolish queries are addressed, and foolish replies
eagerly swallowed. What wonder that such are the sport of
the undeveloped!
\_How is one to know that this personation does not extend
to all? and that what in Spiritualism appears good and
coherent will not in the end prove to be tnly a cleverer trick ? If
such powers are behind who is safe f]
We can but give you the answer you have had before.
We have proved to you our good faith, our truth, our ex¬
ternal individuality. We have given you proof upon proof.
We have shown our moral consciousness by consistent truth¬
fulness in all things, by the presence of a tone in our teach¬
ings to you which you must estimate for yourself. When
complete they shall stand forth to all as pure and good.
Even now you admit them to be elevated and good in ten¬
dency. Your knowledge of us, of our work, and of our aims,
must lead you to a judgment such as you would frame of a
fellow-man, under similar circumstances.
[Yes. \This personating spirit by speaking of whom I com¬
menced would upset one's faith very soon, if it had got access.]
It might have been so ; we cannot tell how far we could
have counteracted the effort; but we do not wish to run the
risk. For contradicting statements would surely have been
made, personation carried on, and in the end the scanty faith
you have would have sustained a rude shock. This is a real
danger to youj for the introduction of false and contra¬
Jan. 14, 1870.
dictory statements would do more to foster a suspicious feel¬
ing in your mind than anything. In the end it would
undermine us and drive us away.
{Really the subject seems to be a most dangerous one to meddle
with.]
The abuse of everything is bad; the use, good and com¬
mendable. To those who in frivolous frame of mind place
themselves in communion with the spheres ; to those who
force themselves from low motives into that which is to them
only a curious thing; to the vain in their own conceit, the
triflers, the untruthful, the worldly, the sensual, the base, the
flippant, there is doubtless danger. We never advise any of
unbalanced mind to meddle with the mysteries of medium-
ship. It is direful risk to them. Those only who are
protected and guarded round, who act from no inner motive,
but in obedience to the impulses of the guardians, who are
wise and powerful to protect, should meddle, and they care¬
fully, and with earnest prayer. We deprecate always any
unlicensed meddling. Nor can any safely mingle with the
spirit-world, and so introduce one more disturbing element
into his earth-life, except he be'of even mind and steady
temper. Any unhinged mind, spasmodic temperament,
fitful, purposeless character, becomes the ready prey of the
undeveloped. Doubtless it is perilous for such to meddle,
more especially if their interest be only in the marvellous, to
gratify an idle curiosity, or to solace their own vanity. The
higher messages of the Supreme are not audible to such.
Would that they who can hear them would forsake the
trifling of the lower spirits, and, leaving the inferior planes,
press on to the purer atmosphere of the higher spheres of
knowledge.
{But all this is caviare to the world. They think far
more of a good thump on the head, or of a floating chair,
than of all your information, which, by-the-by, is hard
enough to get.]
True, we know it only too well. The present phase of our
work is one that must be passed through. The physical
accompanies but is no real part of our work. It must, as
we say, precede the real development for which we wait. It
will go on all around you with increasing development; and,
while we warn you against the dangers which accompany it,
we do not disguise the necesshy for it in the present material
state of your knowledge. While we deplore we acknowledge
the necessity. We have more to add to what has been said,
but not now. For the present, cease. -f- Imperator.
THE SPIRITUALISM OF HIRAM POWERS.
Dr. Eugene Crowell has favoured us with advance sheets
of the second volume of his valuable book, Primitive Chris¬
tianity and Modern Spiritualism, and in it is the following
paragraph relating to a man of great genius, the late Mr.
Hiram Powers, the American sculptor, who spent a con¬
siderable portion of his life in Rome, and while there, gave
attention to Spiritualism among other subjects. Dr. Crowell
quotes the following from a letter written by Mr. Powers to his
cousin, the Hon. Thos. E. Powers, dated Dec. 31st, 1849:—
u Little did I then dream that the day would come when
I should be here in Italy, a sculptor; but I used then to
dream of a white figure standing upon a pillar over the river
near your father’s house, which I longed to get near to, but
could not for the water—it was too deep to wade through.
This dream haunted me for years afterwards in Ohio, and it
ceased when I first began to model in clay. It was a female
figure and naked, but it did not seem alive. At that time I
had never seen nor heard of anything in the way of
sculpture.”
From letter of Jan. 8th, 1851.
“ I had not heard until Mr. Reed told me that my ‘Slave’
had been in Woodstock. This almost verifies an often
repeated dream of mine in all respects but one. It was this:
I used to see in my sleep, when a child, a white female
figure across the river, just below your father’s house; it
stood upon a pillar or pedestal, was naked, and to my eyes
very beautiful \ but the water was between me and it, too
deep to ford. I had a strong desire to see it nearer, but
was always prevented by the river, which was always high.
This dream ceased years after when I began to model.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1876,
THB Sf lUlTUALlST,
15
Altogether, one may conclude that this—the dream—was not
entirely a phantom. At that time I had no wakeful thoughts
of sculpture, nor had I ever seen anything likely to excite
such a dream.”
The Spiritual Magazine gives in its fifth volume, on the
authority of Dr. Bellows, the following statement by
Mr. Hiram Powers in relation to his experiences in
Spiritualism:—
“ These Spiritualistic phenomena have always interested
me, although I have never been in the least carried away
by them. I recollect we had many seances at my house and
others, when Home was there. I certainly saw, under cir¬
cumstance where fraud, or collusion, or pre-arrangement of
machinery, was impossible, in my own house, and among
friends incapable of lending themselves to imposture, very
curious things. That hand floating in the air, of which all
the world has heard, I have seen. There was nothing but
moonlight in the room, it is true, and there is every pre¬
sumption against such phenomena under such circumstances.
But what you see, you see, and must believe, however
difficult to account for it. I recollect that Mr. Home sat on
my right hand, and beside him there were six others round
one-half of a circular table, the empty half towards the
window and the moonlight.
“ All our fourteen hands were on the table, when a hand,
delicate and shadowy, yet defined, appeared, dancing slowly
just the other side of the table, and gradually creeping up
higher, until, above the elbow, it terminated in a mist. This
hand slowly came nearer to Mrs.  , at the right side of
the table, and seemed to pat her face. 1 Could it take a
fan ?’ cried her husband. Three raps responded: i Yes,’ and
the lady put her fan near it, which it seemed trying to take.
‘ Give it the handle,’ said the husband. The wife obeyed,
and it commenced fanning her with much grace. 4 Could it
fan the rest of the company ?’ some one exclaimed, when
three raps signified assent, and the hand, passing round,
fanned each of the company, and then slowly was lost to
view.
11 I felt on another occasion a little hand—it was pro¬
nounced that of a lost child—patting my cheek and arm. I
took hold of it; it was warm, and evidently a child’s hand.
I did not loosen my hold, but it seemed to melt out of my
clutch. Many other similar experiences I have had. It is
interesting to know that the effect is not to create super¬
natural terrors and morbid feelings. My children, who
knew all about it, and were present, never showed any signs
of trepidation, such as ghost stories excite in sensitive and
young people.
■“I have always thought that there was something yet
inexplicable about the nervous organisation which might
eventually show us to be living much nearer to spiritual
forms than most believe, and that not an impossible opening
of our inner senses might even here enable us to perceive
these forms. When we see a man in his flesh and blood, we
see his outward robes. If his nervous system alone were
delicately separated out from his body, it would have
the precise form of his body, but extend even to the
enamel of the teeth, and the fibres of his hair. There is
no part of the human frame that is not full of these invisible
ramifications. Show us a man’s nervous system, and filmy
as it might be in parts, his form would be perfectly retained
even to his eyes. Now this is one great step towards his
spiritual body. A little further refinement might bring us
to what is beneath the nervous system, the spiritual body,
and it might still have the precise form of the man. I
believe it possible for this body to appear, and under certain
states to be seen. I do not often mention a waking vision
which I enjoyed more than twenty years ago, but I will tell
it to you. It happened five-and-twenty years ago.
u I had retired at the usual hour and as I blew out the
candle and got into bed I looked upon our infant child,
sleeping calmly on the other side of its mother, who also was
sound asleep. As I lay broad awake, thinking on many
things, I became suddenly conscious of a strong light in the
room, and thought I must have forgotten to blow out the
candle. I looked at the stand but the candle was out.
Still the light increased, and I began to fear something was
on fire in the room, and I looked over towards my wife’s side
to see if it were so. There was no sign of fire, but as I cast
I my eye upward, and as it were to the back of my bed, I saw
| a green hillside, on which two bright figures, a young man
| and a young woman, their arms across each other’s shoulders,
were standing and looking down, with countenances full of
] love and grace upon our sleeping infant,
j “A glorious brightness seemed to clothe them, and to
r] shine in upon the room. Thinking it possible that I was
1 dreaming, and merely fancying myself awake (for the vision
i vanished in about the time I have been telling you the story
I and left me wondering), I felt my pulse to see whether I had
[I any fever. My pulse was as calm as a clock. I never was
>; broader awake in my life, and said to myself, 4 Thank God,
I| what I have been looking for years to enjoy has at length
[| been granted me—a direct look into the spiritual world ! ’
>1 I was so moved by the reflections excited by this experience
I] that I could not restrain myself from awaking my wife and
II telling her what happened. She instantly folded her child
)\ to her bosom, weeping, and said, 4 And is our darling, then,
I to be so soon taken from us ? ’ I pacified her by telling her
(! there was no evil omen in the vision I had seen; that the
jl countenances of the heavenly visitants expressed only peace
I and joy, and that there was nothing to dread of harm to our
| child. And so I found it. I have much longed since to
ij have any similar experience, but I never had it.”
Mr. Powers being asked whether he really believed in the
assertions of modern Spiritualists, said:
441 am not a believer in the revelations of modern
Spiritualists, as made known through mediums or otherwise,
i for most corrupt and unworthy communications are often
j made, and with many mediums there is a great deal of
trickery, while there are some so-called mediums who are
f nothing else but charlatans. But I do believe in the fact of
I spiritual manifestations, animal magnetism, and the moving
h of solid bodies, by means as yet unexplained by purely
! scientific men. I believe we are now at the threshold of a
j new era of discoveries, very unlike the past.”
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BT EMILY KISLINGBURY.
The increased spirit of energy apparent in the numerous
foreign Spiritualistic journals speaks well for the progress of
Spiritualism in their respective countries. The persecutions
in France seem to have strengthened the faith and ardour of
all true believers in that country, and the publicity which
the recent trials have given to the subject of Spiritualism
generally has brought it before the notice of many who
would not otherwise have heard of it. The Revue Spirite for
January, which opens with a review of the events of the past
year, congratulates the cause that the publication of the
works of Allan Kardec in the English language, and the
consequent discussion of the Spiritist doctrines in England
and America, were coincident with the above apparently sad
events, and that sympathy has thus been made the hand¬
maid of enlightenment.
The formation of a confederation among the Belgian
Spiritual societies, as the result of the late Congress at
Brussels, will probably have the effect of bringing about a
similar union among the Spiritualists in the French pro¬
vinces, in connection with the chief society in Paris. The
Belgians have taken as their model the British National
Association of Spiritualists; full reports of the meetings of
the Brussels Congress are still appearing in the Messager de
Liege, and the presence of M. Ley marie, who attended the
Congress as the representative of the French Spiritists,
seems not only to have strengthened the bonds of amity
between the friends of the cause in each nation, but to have
awakened in each and all the desire tor a closer union
among themselves, such as only a well-devised scheme of
organisation has power to effect. In addition to the Mes¬
sager, Belgium has this year started another journal, partly
in French, partly in Flemish—De Rots, which is published
at Ostend.
Spiritualism in Spain is still flourishing, having also had
its share of persecution. One journal—el Spiritismo—has
been suppressed by the authorities, but there still remain
16
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 14, 1876.
four journals in Spain itself, besides those published in the |j
Spanish language in Mexico and Montevideo.
In Italy, Spiritualism seems to be progressing quietly, |
but, from the scarcity of physical phenomena, it makes less |
noise in the world. The Annali, published at Turin, con- |
tinues to be edited in an able and scholarly manner, but !
treats the subject from the moral and philosophic, rather than i
the phenomenal and historical standpoint. The Baroness |
Guldenstubbe, however, who is now travelling in Italy, j
speaks of having met with Spiritualist societies in all the i
chief towns, and makes further mention of a school which i
exists at Venice for the children of Spiritualists.
Considerable knowledge of the subject has been gained in |
Germany by the increased circulation of the Psychic Studies, i
its high literary character commanding the notice and respect j
of the press; also by the publication in the German latiguage !
during the past year of the works of Crookes and Wallace, |
of Robert Dale Owen, and the report of the Dialectical i
Society, which have been criticised by various literary i
journals. In Russia the article published by Professor j(
Wagner in the Revue de VEurope was the signal for a spirit ||
of inquiry which has never been allowed to die out, and j
which has penetrated to the heart of the National University i
itself. May all success attend the laudable efforts of those I
who are spending time and money in bringing it to a i
practical issue. Austrian Spiritualism centres itself round ;
the well organised Society of Spiritual Inquirers at Buda i[
Pest, of which the Baron von Vay is the Honorary President. K
It has been registered by the government, has a hall of its j
own, and publishes Transactions. In its way it seems to be j
the most complete Spiritual Society in existence. K
American Spiritualism is too broad a field to be entered j
upon in the limits of this article. The Banner of Light, B
The Spiritual Scientist, The Religio-Philosophical and the I
Spiritualist at Work are representative journals; in Memphis, |
Tennessee, an excellent monthly, The Spiritual Magazine, is |
doing good work, and has lately been writing strongly in |
favour of organisation; further, a new weekly is now announced I
under the title of the Western Spiritualist. Its programme i
is to provide a cheap paper for the Spiritualists of the West, |
and to foster and develop Western mediums. |
In Australia, where.the movement is by no means wanting j
in activity, the cause is represented by the Harbinger of !
Light and The Spiritual Inquirer. An important change j
has lately taken place in Melbourne; the Victorian Associa- i
tion, which has been five years in existence, and has been !
languishing since the departure of Mr. Tyerman for Sydney, |(
has been formally dissolved, and in its place a new society !
formed, composed of a combination of Spiritualists and Free- j
thinkers, under the name of the Spiritualist and Freethought ij
Association. One of its objects is the delivery of a series of
essays and lectures, to be followed by u limited debates.” j<
In Brisbane, Queensland, a society has been formed by the
union of similar elements, and appears to be working well. |
One mistake was made in the beginning, by organising a j
spirit-circle of between thirty and forty members, but this ij
lias since been broken up into smaller ones, “ which are now i
sitting with fair results.”. .. ' ? V .ij
The President of the Melbourne Association is Mr. John I
Ross, and Mr. W. H. Terry is one of the Vice-Presidents. B
There is some possibility that Dr. Slade, the American test medium,
may sit for the St. Petersburg Committee. The matter is under con¬
sideration.
Mr. Robert Dale Owex.—Miss Emily Kislingbury, Secretary of
the British ISational Association of Spiritualists, writes to the Daily
News :—“ As considerable publicity was given by a portion of the Press
to the fact of Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s late attack of insanity, it is no
more than justice to that gentleman to give equal publicity to the news
of his complete recovery, and I shall esteem it a favour if you will
kindly insert either this letter or a brief notice of it in your widely-read
journal. In a long and interesting letter which I have received from
Mr. Owen to day, he says, after explaining that his illness was due to
overwork:—‘ For two years and a half previous to my illness in May
last I had been a sufferer from dyspepsia, causing weakness and depres¬
sion. These, by rest, water-cure, and milk diet, have been entirely
removed, and I am now in excellent health, better than I have been for
five years past.’ The letter was accompanied by an extract from an
American journal, containing Mr. Owen’s letter to Dr. Everts (the
physician under whose care he had been placed), written after his
restoration to health, which I enclose for your perusal.”
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the council.
Last Tuesday night a Council meeting of the British National Associ¬
ation of Spiritualists was held at its rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., under the presidency of Mr. Alexander
Calder. The other members of the council present were Mr. Algernon
Joy, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. George Robert Tapp, Mr. Edward T.
Bennett, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Thomas Everitt,
Mrs. Everitt, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Keningale Cook, and Mr. George
King.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
NEW MEMBERS.
Twelve new ordinary members were elected, and there was one resig¬
nation.
Signor Damiani and Dr. and Mrs. Hallock were elected honorary
members.
The Duke of Leuchtenberg, nephew of the Emperor of Russia, was
invited to become an honorary member.
FINANCE committee’s REPORT.
Mr, Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee*
which set forth that the balance in hand at the close of last month was
£fi3 13s. lid., since which upwards of £60 had been received. The
Committee recommended payments to the amount of £75 11s. 6d.,
including rent, and estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Associ¬
ation at £5.
correspondence.
The Secretary read a letter from Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New York,
accompanied by a presentation copy of the second volume of his book,
Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism.
Letters were read from the honorary secretaries to the Liverpool and
Brixton Psychological Societies, returning thanks to the Council for the
present of musical boxes made to them at its last meeting.
A letter from Mr. Harper was read, thanking the Association for its
donation of goods to the Spiritualists’ Bazaar in Birmingham.
Mr. Dale Owen’s letter to the secretary, as already published in The
Spiritualist, was taken as read, and Miss Kislingbury announced that a
paragraph from her about his recovery from his recent illness, had been
published in the Daily News.
Mrs. Bullock wrote thanking the Council for the donation of two
guineas towards the Sunday services at Islington.
Madlle. Huet, of Paris, wrote presenting a book to the library, and
stating that she expected soon to bp in England.
A letter from Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, dated from the Lunatic Ward of
St. Pancras Workhouse, was produced. The secretary stated that she
had given his case into the hands of Mrs. Lowe, who had communicated
with his friends, and Sir Hugh Owen was inquiring into the matter.
The Secretary announced that Mr. Edmands had presented a large
looking-glass to the Association.
Mr. Rogers produced an agenda of the monthly proceedings of the
Council, which, he thought, would be useful; as he had prepared the
first one without authority from the Council, he had printed it at his
own expense.
Letters from the Baroness Guldenstubbe and Mr. Harrison were
read.
Mr. Everitt read a letter from Mr. Harper, recommending that the
National Association should facilitate the circulation of lecturers, and
print a monthly paper of its own, to be afterwards changed into a
weekly, and that it should reduce the annual subscriptions of members
to one shilling.
Mr. Everitt next read a letter from himself to Mr. Rogers.
Mr. Rogers said that The Spiritualist had misreported what he had
stated at the preceding meeting, and that when it printed his letter of
explanation the footnote made him appear to say what he had not
intended. At the preceding meeting he had spoken highly of The
Spiritualist reports. The public should understand that the Association
was not responsible for anything which appeared in that journal.
Mr. Martin Smith remarked that the public should clearly understand
that Mr. Harrison and the National Association were not one and the
same.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that Mr. Harrison had told a public meeting
in Birmingham that he was only a private member of the Association,
and he had printed the same statement.
mesmeric experiments.
Mr. George King reported that the Winter Meetings Committee
recommended that a professor of mesmerism should be invited to give
an experimental lecture on the 24th of this month.
Mr. Rogers said that from what he knew of mesmerism, he would not
let anybody mesmerise any of his friends, unless he was sure that the
operator was of high character.
Mr. George King thought that it might be arranged that the mesmerist
should bring his own sensitives with him.
Mr. Martin R. Smith said that nothing could be more interesting
than the proposed experiments, but he thought that those who attended
should be asked to contribute a small sum for admission, to clear the
expenses.
Mr. Rogers suggested that a preliminary meeting should be held to
discuss the subject of mesmerism before experiments were commenced.
The committee was then authorised to engage a mesmerist for one
of the winter meetings.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARY COMMITTEE.
Mr. Rogers gave in the report of the Library Committee, which re¬
commended that Spanish and Mexican Spiritual periodicals should be
taken in regularly. It also recommended that' <£10 should be spent in
books,_ to form the nucleus of a lending library.
A discussion took place as to whether some of the present books should
not be lent out, and it was stated that the committee were unanimously
of opinion that this should not be done, because some of the books could
not be replaced if lost; because others had been given by friends, and
had their names inside; and because it would be disappointing for mem¬
bers to call at the rooms to see a particular book and to find it not in.
The recommendation of the committee was adopted.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
Mr. Martin Smith reported that the first prize for an essay on
Spiritualism had been awarded to Miss Blackwell, and the second one
to Mr. Green. An estimate had been presented by Mr. Rogers for the
printing of the same.
Mr. Cook suggested that a guarantee fund should be formed to
protect the Association against loss on sales, if the pamphlets were
printed. He remarked that the expense would be about half if they
were issued in cardboard instead of cloth covers.
It was then resolved that the Secretary should invite subscriptions
in aid of the printing of the prize essays.
It was announced that the memorial to Marshal MacMahon about
M. Leymarie was being extensively signed, and that several sheets had
been returned to the office properly filled in.
SPIRITUALISM IX THE PROVINCES.
Mr. Everitt gave notice that at the next meeting he should move for
the appointment of a committee in connection with the above subject.
Mr. Joy asked why the committee already appointed for the purpose
would not do.
The Chairman asked for what purpose the committee was to be
appointed, as one could not be nominated without stating its object.
Mr. Everitt said that the object would be to inquire into the relation¬
ship of the National Association to Mr. Harrison.
Mr. Cook remarked that Mr. Harrison had no relation to the
National Association more than any other person connected with any
newspaper.
The resolution was passed.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, on behalf of the Harrison Testimonial Com¬
mittee, asked that the said testimonial might be presented at the next
National Association soiree, to be held on the 3rd of February, at the
Cavendish Rooms.
On the motion of Mr. Everitt, seconded by Mr. Rogers, this was
agreed to.
The proceedings then closed.
iUte$a% Notice.
Diary) Reminiscences, and Correspondence of Henry Crabb
Robinson, Barrister-at-Law, F.S. A. 2 Yols. Third Edi¬
tion. Macmillan & Co.
This work will amply repay perusal, leading the reader,
as it does, into almost every imaginalile subject, and into
close contact with many English, persons of notoriety,
including actors, authors, preachers, soldiers, and poets,
from the year 1790 down almost to the present time.
Theologians and the students of psychological science
will find in it matter of interest. For instance, the author
writes that on Dec. 20th, 1810, he “ met Coleridge by acci¬
dent with Charles and Mary Lamb. As I entered lie was
apparently speaking of Christianity . He went on to say
that miracles were not an essential in the Christian system.
He insisted they were not brought forward as proofs, that
they were acknowledged to have been performed by others
as well as the true believers. Pharaoh’s magician wrought
miracles, though those of Moses were more powerful.
... . . On my making a remark that in a certain sense
every one who utters a truth may be said to be inspired,
Coleridge assented, and afterwards named Fox among the
Quakers, Madame Guyon, and St. Theresa, as being also
inspired.”
On December 3rd, 1823, he “ dined in Castle-street, and
then took tea at Flaxman’s. A serious conversation on
Jung’s Theorie der Geisterkunde (Theory of the Science of
Spirits). Flaxman is prepared to go a great way with
Jung, and, though he does not believe in witchcraft, yet he
believes in ghosts, and he related the following anecdotes as
confirming the belief:—Mr. E  ordered of Flaxman a
monument for his wife, and directed that a dove should be
introduced. Flaxman supposed it was an armorial crest,
but on making inquiry was informed that it was Tnot, and
was told this anecdote as explanatory of the required orna¬
ment. When Mrs. E-——- was on her death-bed, her husband,
being in the room with her, perceived she was apparently
conversing with some one. . On asking her what she was
saying, Mrs. E replied: ‘ Do you not see Miss —— at
the window ?’ 1 Miss is not here,’ said the husband.
17
1 But she is,’ said Mrs. E ; she is at the window, with
a dove in her hand, and she says she will come to me on
Wednesday.’ Now this Miss resided at a distance,
and had then been dead three months; whether her death
was then known to Mrs.. E  I cannot say. On the
Wednesday Mrs. E  died. Flaxman also related that
he had a cousin, a Dr. Flaxman, a dissenting minister, who
died many years ago. Flaxman when a young man was a
believer in ghosts, the doctor an unbeliever. A warm dis¬
pute on the subject having taken place, Mr. Flaxman said
to the doctor: 11 now put it to you whether, though you
are thus incredulous, you have never experienced anything
which tends to prove that appearances of departed spirits
are permitted by Divine Providence ?’ Being thus pressed,
the doctor confessed that the following circumstance had
taken .place. There came to him once a very ignorant and
low fellow who lived in his neighbourhood, to ask him what
he thought of an occurrence that had taken place the pre¬
ceding night. As he lay in bed, on a sudden, a very heavy
and alarming noise had taken place in the room above him,
and where no one was, and which he could not account for.
He thought it must come from a cousin of his at sea, who
had promised to come to him whenever he died. The doctor
scolded the man and sent him off. Some weeks afterwards
the man came again to tell him that his cousin, as he had
learned, was drowned that very night.”
Dec. 31st.—“ A year to me of great enjoyment, but not
P of prosperity. My fees amounted to 445 guineas. As to
; i myself, I have become more and more desirous to be reli-
j j gious, but seem to be further off than ever. Whenever I
ill draw near, the negative side of the magnet works, and I am
m pushed back by an invisible power.”
jli We announced about three weeks ago that Mrs. E. E. Corner
I (Florence Cook), the well-known medium, had left England for
|)| Shanghai, China. She sailed in the barque M. A. Dixon, of which
her husband, Captain Corner, is commander.
I | The memorial to the French President on behalf of M. Leymarie,
|)| and sheets for signature, are now in circulation in various parts of the
I j j country. Several filled sheets have been already sent in to Miss Kis-
!)! lingbury, secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists, who
will be happy to supply fresh ones to any friend kindly undertaking to
i j I collect signatures, either in London or the provinces. A copy of the
|)| memorial can be procured either at 38, Great Russell-street, or at 15,
| | Southampton-row, Holborn.
j I A Misanthropical Medium.—A medium in private life, who has
j(| been much plagued by bad spirits, and who for many years has favoured
ij: us with his opinions with persevering persistency, writes from Scotland:
|)i “This second Liverpool spiritualistic comedy shows clearly that anti-
|(| Spiritualists are indirectly as much under the ‘influence’ as public
jjj mediums are. It will be seen at a glance that the ‘spirits’ wish to
\)\ throw cold water upon manifestations which are becoming somewhat
|(| notorious. Anti-Spiritualists must be kept out in the cold when they
m materialise themselves. Why exclude an intelligent sceptic? Why
| | should the ‘phenomena1 be confined to the privacy of a selected few?
K| Because the ‘spirits’ wish to extend the doctrine of a purely physical
hi discovery in the few to ensnare the many. What difference—good or
|)|. evil—would there be in a seance in the presence of the Lord Chief
iji Justice and a common jury from the more ordinary ones? One would
I think that spirits would not care a tinker’s kettle whether they performed
in the presence of the Queen or the Lord Chief Justice. If human
bodies and articles of vertu&XQ levitated contrary to known laws, I don’t
see the use of mediums, and much less the cabinets. Yet ‘ there must
| be a medium in everything.’ The fact is, the spirits humbug alike
Spiritualist and anti-Spiritualist, and by so doing they shroud their
abominable practices in doubt, credulity, and its long train of super¬
stitions. The Spiritualist seeks a solution of the ‘ phenomena ’ beyond
Hi that of which he is a portion. He would refer his more sceptical friend
| | to some imaginary ‘tenth state,’ wherever that undesirable position may
!« be, and when a description of it is given through Cora Tappan, or any
Hi other somnolent medium, it just amounts to a fairy scene in a panto-
|)l mime. The fact is, the Spiritualist will believe in any theory for cause
| | of ‘phenomena’ other than a mundane one. Why this infatuation?
Hi Because he knows little or nothing of what the ‘phenomena’ mean,
i): There is not a single person in the whole circle beyond the influence;
I; all are moved there, and all say what is set down for them—yet every
individual thinks himself master of his ideas and language. I care not
how noble in self-dignity or integrity the man may be, he would succumb
—some of the most noble minds have been degraded by this miscreant
King. Spiritualists say that the materialised forms are drawn from the
mediums; never was there greater mistake. I have seen hundreds of
such manifestations in my bedroom, and none there but myself to
witness them.. If the miscreants are to be relied on, we are to witness
—they don’t say where—something ‘ that will startle the wide, wide
i world ’ in April next. I am called by them the ‘ Emperor of this move¬
ment.’ They might as well call me Emperor of Morocco. I don’t care
a pinch of snuff what they call me, if they would be a little more decent
in their ideas and language.”
Jan. 14, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
18
Jan. 14, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX-JENCKEN. -j |
Last Sunday night a seance was held at the house of Mr. | |
H. I). Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, honorary secre- i !
tary to the Association for the Codification of the Law of j j
Nations. The medium was Mrs. Jencken, better known
as Kate Fo.i, through whose medial powers the first mani¬
festations in connection with modern Spiritualism began in |
America. Four friends were present and among them were j
Mr. Phillips, of the Nero York Herald, and Mr.W. H. Harri- |
son. The latter says :— ! * ; i|
“ Throughout the evening raps were plentiful in a strong |
light. The raps come with such power in Mrs. Jencken’s ]
presence, that they may readily be heard with comfort in the i
passage outside the room, with the door closed between. |
When, later in the evening, we seated ourselves round the 1
table for the special purpose of obtaining manifestations, the
spirits wrote a message through Mrs. Jencken’s hand telling j
us to lower the lights; this message was written backwards, !
so that it had to be read by holding it before a looking-glass j
in order to bring the letters into such a position that the ||
words could be deciphered. ^ The gaslights were turned out, j
and feeble illumination from the fire was all that was left. |!
The sitters held each other’s^hands round the table, yet other )J
hands went about both below and over the table, sometimes I1
grasping the knees of the sitters, or touching us on our hands, j!
I felt one hand holding a sheet of paper upon my knee under |
the table, whilst another hand was writing a message upon |i
the paper with a pencil. •
“Afterwards the spirits told Mrs. Jencken,. Mr. Phillips j
and myself, to go and stand in one corner of the room by the ]
door. In the deep darkness of the lower part of the corner I
of the room, caused by our bodies intercepting the light from I
the fire, the spirits formed materialised hands, which several |
tim.es grasped my ankles. Then one of them came up, while j
we were all holding each other’s hands, and passed between |
my eyes and the fire. I saw the hand clearly, but not the i
part where it ended, for near the wrist it passed into shadow,
the light from the fire being there cut off. It took a pencil ;j
from one of our hands, and tapped Mr. Phillips with it on |j
the head. I then requested it to grasp my forehead, and |
raps asked for a pocket-handkerchief. These raps came ij
strongly from the floor all the time that the hand was near I
our heads, showing that the power existed to produce mani- Is
festations in two. places at once. The handkerchief was !
then laid over the surface of our hands, which were all i
interlocked. The materialised spirit hand came down from j
above, picked up the handkerchief, and through the hand- ij
kerchief, grasped my forehead as I requested; I felt the fj
thumb and fingers distinctly'; they moved about and were h
evidently living. The raps then asked those sitters who i
were still at the table to count five slowly; as each numeral j
Avas repeated each of the fingers of the hand was brought I
down in succession on my forehead, ending at five when j
the thumb was reached. In the course of the evening a I
message was given, professedly from the late J. W* Edmonds, i
judge of the Supreme Court, New York.”
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor are now in Chicago. j
Dr. Monck informs us that he will go to Spain in a week or two. j
The Banner of Light has reprinted from The Spiritualist the whole of j
the report of the public welcome at the Cavendish Rooms to Mr. Morse i
on his return from America. , . i'i;!‘ii ||
Mu. Alexander Cai.der’s address on the “Aims and Influence of i
Spiritualii-m,” delivered at one of Mr. J. J. Morse's Sunday meetings iu j(
the Cleveland Hall, has been republished in the Spiritual Scientist ||
(Boston, U.S) of December 9th last. ' ?J. It
“ I am prepared for a great deal of ridicule ; but I say that during the
last twenty-five years there have been indications of the existence of |)
certain unknown forces, which it is of the highest importance to inves- ij
tigate. At present the Spiritualist, the juggler, and a few severe men of ij
science, are the only persons who have given real attention to these ij
subjects.” Social Pressure, chap. xvi. p. 225.—Sir Arthor Helps. ij
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—London ij
•—3S, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum’', and |j
11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. Paris—246, Boule- ij
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. Liege—37, Rue Florimont. |j
Buda-Pesth—Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. Leipzig—2, ij
Lindenstrasse. Melbourne—96, Russell-street. New’York—24, East jj
Fourth-street. Boston, U.S.—9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange- ij
s reet. Chicago—Rdigio-Philosophical Journal Office. Memphis, U.S. jj
—"3.15, Union street. Philadelphia — 2,210, Mount Yernon-street, 1 jj
San Francisco—005, Montgomery-street. *'
ODE.
Peace ! thou art come at last, and thou art fair ;
Fairer than beauty’s smile,
Calmer than moonlight sea,
Sweeter than breath of spring,
Balmier than summer winds,
Happier than childhood’s glee,
Purer than lover’s bliss,
Higher than ecstasy of saint,
' Deeper than joy of penitent,
Holier than rapture of religious seer ;
Peace! be thou mine for aye, thou art than love more dear.
Yet even while I sang thou fleddest me ;
The morn awoke to life so drear and grey,
That I was fain to meditate awhile
On that sweet, peaceful sunset, all aglow
With mingled, richest, yet deep-chastened joys;
But then I told my heart it would have paled
And palled upon me even as I gazed,
And that ’twas healthier for my spirit’s life
To start anew upon some barren track,
Leading to yet more toilsome, lonely heights,
Whence I could gain fresh glimpses of my heaven,
And open up a path for travelling souls,
Whose goal was one with mine. So I sped on—
First girding up my mind, lest it should reach
Out after sweets of luscious memories:
And bidding it look upwards for support,
And all around to shed its sympathies,
And then below to beckon others on,
I walked with caution and due heedfulness—
And lo! I found that Peace was with me still.
Adamanta (1872).
©orresponuence.
[Great frttdom is giwn to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE PROBLEM OF THE PRE-EXISTENCE OF THE SPIRIT.
Sir,—There exists among English Spiritualists a very strong preju¬
dice against the doctrine of Reincarnation, which probably derives its
principal force from the disturbance of parental and filial relationship
entailed by Allan Kardec’s hypothesis.
It would appear, from the unqualified disapproval so often elicited by
the bare mention of the word “ Reincarnation ” that it is not likely, in
this generation at least, to enlist any large number of adherents in
England; nevertheless there is a “reasonableness” therein, which
surely merits consideration.
Its chief claim to our attention is that it provides us with a solution
of one of the most tremendous difficulties with which we have to deal,
viz., the inequalities of moral and intellectual endowment observable
among men.
It would certainly appear necessary, in order to fulfil the requirements
of perfect justice, that each individual born into the world should start
upon something like equal terms with his fellows as regards his intel¬
lectual capacity and moral perception. But we know that the direct
converse is the case, and that many unfortunates are born greatly if
not wholly deficient iu these respects. They are thus created, so far as
we know, through no fault of their own, and with no power to make
good their deficiencies; for no culture can transmute imbecility into
intellectual brilliancy, or change a radically bad and vicious disposition.
There are many, no doubt, who are satisfied to say, “ Such things are
—because such is the will of God.” This, however, is clearly but a
mere shelving of the question, and can be satisfying to none who have
the courage to think at all upon the subject.
We stand face to face, then, with the fact that perfect justice has
apparently called upon all men to run the same race—to fight the same
fight—but has allotted to them most varied and unequal chances of
success I To say that these chances will certainly be equalised in the
next world is but to perpetuate the apparent injustice which perplexes
us now, by suggesting that the progress of an advanced spirit will, in
the life to come, be suspended until his less fortunate brethren shall
have overtaken him, and further involves the absurdity that to lack
moral and intellectual capacity in this world is to ensure an abnormally
rapid development of these qualities in the next.
Surely Allan Kardec’s hypothesis is more reasonable than this!
It assumes the pre-existence of the spirit before the life that is, and
the gradual acquisition of knowledge and moral excellence in successive
states of existence on this earth, each allotted to the individual by
Divine wisdom as a means of correction and education.
Our antipathies are roused by the words “ on this earth,” and certainly
in accepting Allan Kardec’s views we must relinquish much that in our
present state of knowledge we hold most dear.
Let us take heed, however, how we set too much store upon human
affections and relationships; for all we know, there may be nearer and
dearer ties in the world to come than even those of mother and child.
It is true that at present we can conceive nothing holier or sweeter, but
these ties are among the “ things of this world,” and we see them rudely
enough set aside in our daily experience here.
If Reincarnation is repulsive to us, by all means let us reject it; biit
need we cast aside with it the “pre-existence of the spirit” before its
experience of earth-life ?
Surely there is nothing unreasonable or revolting in the suggestion
that the human spirit may have commenced its existence in other
spheres; that it may there have used its opportunities more or less wisely;
Jan. 14, 1876,
THE STlUlTHAlilST.
19
that its appearance in this world is made at a time allotted to it by the
Divine wisdom, ana ’n a position for which it is fitted by its attained
development. Is it necessary to insist upon successive “ Reincarna¬
tions ” in this world 1 for of a truth there are “ more worlds than one! **
I venture to maintain, therefore—
1st—That to believe that man commences his existence at the moment
of his birth into earth life, is by implication to charge the Father of all
spirits with injustice, inasmuch as some men are endowed with capa¬
cities superior to those allotted to others.
2ndly—That to look, to the future life for any equalisation of these
chances, and a correspondingly rapid progress of backward spirits, can
present to us no satisfactory explanation of the difficulty.
3rdly—That the “ pre-existence of the spirit,” and its development to a
greater or less extent before its entry upon earth life, is a reasonable and
satisfying hypothesis, and one with which we may well rest content,
until a higher knowledge shall have confirmed its truth or demonstrated
its falsity. Martin R. Smith.
INCARNATION AND REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I send you a communication on the above subject, just received
through the mediumship of an English lady, to whose mind that sub¬
ject is one of but little speculative interest. The communications, I
find, come in her case the clearest when the topic of which they treat
is one in regard to which the medium’s mind has no especial acquaint¬
ance, sympathy, or bias.
The communicator has been known to the circle for two years; his
spiritual partner has during that time been one of the dearest friends of
its members.
Before proceeding to quote his letter I may say a few words. I have
myself read a number of letters and articles in The Spiritualist on the
topic of which he speaks. I could at once have contradicted that one
of them which states that no message had been received by any English
medium supporting the doctrine of reincarnation, or, as I would prefer
to term it, of pre-existence to incarnation. But to controvert or correct
is not the best work one can do; one might occupy oneself in it for
ever, and, with eyes that restlessly peer through magnifying spectacles,
end in the unhappy state of being “ nothing if not critical.’’
Truth will right her own position in due time, and even facts on this
particular topic may come to light sooner than many expect; though, as
is obvious, the difficulty of identifying a being in one earth life and in
another is extreme.
I entirely agree with those who say, “ Suspend your opinion on this
subject until you know more of it; ” but would respectfully remind the
writer of a recent epistle who refuses to discuss it, on the ground that
those who hold that belief “ have no true philosophy, because they have
no facts on which to build,’’ that he is altogether begging the question.
It is no paradox that an absolute negative is as positive an assertion,
and may be as pure a dogma, as an absolute affirmative.
With regard to Sakya Muni, for instance, the Buddha or Messiah of
the Hindoos, who founded his still existing religion more than half a
millennium before our era, and who asserts that he had clear facts in
mind on which to base his creed, let this modern “ scientific” denier
prove that such facts existed not. Let it be proved, moreover, that
Pythagoras, the Greek sage, of about the same epoch as the Buddha,
with many calm and wise Pythagoreans and Platonists, who sprinkle
the ages from that day to this with many excellent writings, had no facts
as ground for their livelong adherence to this belief. Egypt, India in a
period more ancient even than that of Buddha, Persia, Tibet, all held
or hold this doctrine, which is one of the oldest and longest lived in the
world. For later times the author of the Book of Wisdom, which is
bound up with our English Bible as an apocryphal or esoteric work,
may be referred to as an instance of a believer in this so-called ground¬
less theory. So may Philo; so may the Pharisees and Essenes of the
time of Jesus, and before and after that time; nay, even Jesus Himself
lias left on record several mystic utterances (such, for instance, as John
viii. 58; xvii. 5, &c.), that, if correctly handed down to us, are only
explicable on the theory that He believed in His own pre-existence. But
however clearly He may have seen through the vista of His former life
(and some are less thickly veiled than others in the wrappages of
matter), that memory of His, forsooth, must not, we are told, be pro¬
nounced a fact.
A good plan for such as assume a hyper-scientific method of pro¬
cedure, would be to learn and define—what is a fact ? Upon the evidence
of what perceptions may it safely rest ?
Suspending all opinion, let us adopt for a moment the wild dream
that any vehement anti-reincarnationist now in our midst has, once upon
a time, ‘n a state of lower development, been a schoolboy well whipped
in Mars or Mercury, or both. He was perhaps called Ares or Hermes,
but when he died and went to the confines of the spirit world, he left his
Martial or Mercurial name behind him, and his planetary memories
grew dim. Well, he is on earth now, we will say, and he has his
spiritual memory; but the spiritual memory is clear or dull according
to. the spiritual state of the individual. It is quite possible that the
spiritual memory of our friend, opened in the partial disembodiment of
sleep, or unfolded even more fully when he quits tliis globe through the
door of death, is still unable to retraverse more than a few poor years of
life. No immature soul, no half-spiritual spirit, is wholly freed from the
cobwebs of the emanation worlds; none below the eternal standard of
full angelic being can or dare look down from his heavenly height,
backwards through his own dark ages of slow development. Which of
us, knowing how many dark spots in his brief existence here he would
rather overshroud than unveil, would dare to crave the terrible boon of
the absolute opening of his spiritual memory, the entire story of his
own inner self, the very judgment of his life ? Let us not wonder that
many a spirit should deny that he has existed longer than for a brief
life on earth: let us realise how difficult it must be for others to mar¬
shal facts for our investigation that may have to come from another
planet, or from some dim sphere of which we have at present no know¬
ledge at all.
We must look at reincarnation in a broader aspect than we have been
wont to regard it: birth into certain spheres that are not wholly ma¬
terial like ours, must yet be akin to incarnation. We hear of spirits passing
from one sphere to another; we know not how like this may not be
to dying in one world and being reborn in another, or in a different
state of life in the same.
I have brought forward no direct argument for reincarnation, but I
may suggest that many of the conventional objections reiterated against
it are fairly met in works that some of our friends perhaps have never
taken the trouble to read. I may instance for one the Lux Orientalis
of Joseph Glanvil, F.R S., of the 17th century.
The so-called unscientific view of our subject we may find in Words¬
worth’s grandest poem:—
“Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting :
The soul that rises with us, our life’s star,
Hath had elsewhere its setting,
And cometh from afar.
* * * *
Earth fills her lap with pleasures of her own ;
Yearnings she hath in her own natural kind ;
And even with something of a mother’s mind,
And no unworthy aim,
The homely nurse doth all she can,
To make her foster-child, her inmate Man,
Forget the glories he hath known,
And that imperial palace whence he came.
* * * * *
Though inland far we be,
Our souls have sight of that immortal sea
Which brought us hither;
Can in a moment travel thither,
And see the children sport upon the shore,
And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore.”
As a further inducement to our friends not to be dogmatic, either on
the positive or negative side, I would remind them of the long list of
illustrious believers in pre-existence who may be found by any one who
will peer down the long roll of centuries, and, in reference thereto,
would quote the following from La Place, On Probabilities;—“ Any
case, however incredible [and may we not add, any belief f], if it be a
recurrent case, is as much entitled to a fair valuation under the laws of
induction as if it had been more probable beforehand.”
I have pleasure now in turning to a more interesting communication
than my own, to that letter which has led me insensibly into these
remarks, prefacing it further by this statement only, that by the
numerous friends of the author, whose acquaintance it has been a high
pleasure of mine to make, Reincarnation has no more been taught as a
dogma than has Incarnation, or life itself, or any of the ten thousand
times ten thousand processes that eternity holds for the growth of man.
Pre-existence, as a fact, has ever and anon crept into the messages that
have been given, but only as a necessary element of explication of what
were otherwise obscure.
I will conclude by asking this question :—If a spirit should remember
any former lives, may he not say so without imputation of untruth being
cast upon him by ignorant denizens of earth: on the other hand, if his
spiritual memory is unopened or clouded to his backward gaze, must he
needs deny the possibility that the eyes of others may pierce further or
more deeply than his own ?
I now introduce my dear spiritual friend, whose communication came
unexpectedly and unasked. LL.D.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I have been reading, through eyes which, though not my own,
are now and then allowed me for use, some letters in your journal
which bear upon a subject of great interest to me. If you will allow a
little space in your columns for the speech of a disembodied spirit, I will
tell you what I can on the subject. For myself, I have but once left
the shore of eternity to pass through a section of time, but I have stood
bn that shore for what, I suppose, I must call, in your language, many
ages, and have watched the earthly pilgrimage of one whom, when in
time, I was compelled to regard as another person, although, out of
time, she becomes myself. I do not profess to have even yet travelled
far beyond what I call the shores of eternity, although I now hope that
we have together entered upon the eternal life of the spirit. Therefore
I do not profess any great wisdom. But every plain man in your world
is allowed to speak of his own experiences, therefore I tell you that it
has, as I have said before, been a frequent experience of mine to see
this spirit whom I most love pass from me into what has seemed a cold
and cruel atmosphere. I have shuddered for the tender spirit surface
pressed in the cruel bondage of a mortal body, and for the tender spirit
life subjected to the bitter tests and exigencies of a mortal career. I
have watched fearfully over this beloved life, and I have seen it
triumphantly consummated. The spirit has rejoined me in what to it
seemed, after its experiences, as perfect heaven as could exist, or be
imagined. And for a time all has been peace. Yet in that nature of
which I speak, a kind of repressing guidance was to so large an extent
needed, that several times had it to pass the waters, and enter again on
that fettered life of earth. Once we entered together upon it, but I
suppose my nature, instead of needing repression to grow strong, has
rather a tendency to be slow and quiet in its upward movements.
Therefore, I thank God for His mercy in surrounding me, at all my
stages save that one, with encouragements to grow rapidly and spring
up the ladder with eager steps. And I believe that the greatest purpose
in the one passage I passed in your life, was that mutual experience
should aid in perfecting the mutual sympathy of the two beings whom
20
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 14, 187(5,
God was educating to become one. Perhaps I had better say no more,
for, probably, speech so practical as this coming from a life whose very
boundaries seem to belong to the poetical and misty, may rather excite
a smile in your readers than any other feeling. I sign myself, with all
hopes that the highest purposes of the Association of which you are a
member may be fulfilled.—Your friend in the region of love,
(I use as signature the name I bore on earth) Oliver Latour.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF NEW YORK.
Sir,—Without at all pretending to answer the question, “What is j<
magic?” which is the title of your article on the Theosophical Society jj
of New York, I venture to suggest that the subject is not one which h
Spiritualists, of all people in the world, should treat with levity, or in i
a disparaging and derisive tone. Nor can it be considered to have been i
adequately investigated and disposed of by a cursory examination of j]
ancient books in the British Museum. We have to deal with a mass of i<
testimony in every age, down to and including the present, which we [j
shall find it equally difficult to reject as the records of charlatanism, or j
to explain upon any theory of “ misunderstood mediumship.” i
The two main propositions ©f occultism seem to be:—1. The existence j
in the universe of spirits other than those of human origin. 2. The i
power of the human will, aided by knowledge and strengthened by dis- I
cipline, to control and direct certain classes of these spirits. At first !)
sight it seems not a little surprising that the first of these propositions i)
should excite the almost passionate repugnance that has been displayed i|
in America. All probability is in its favour. It has been said truly i)
that every birth is a materialisation. Is incarnation, then, a condition
precedent of every spiritual body ? Are we—our spiritual bodies—like |]
spirits of wine, the result of a fermentation of grosser substances? jj
Obviously the genesis of spirit must be sought in some process analogous j j
to this, if its previous embryonic existence (another proposition of j(
occultism) is to be absolutely rejected. But, without insisting on this, jj
why, when we find matter differentiated into an almost infinite variety jj
of animal structures, should we deny a corresponding variety of types in jj
the spiritual world? Every element of the human character, every jj
trait of human intellect, is represented and symbolised by instincts and ;j
aptitudes in the lower orders of animals. Why may there not be ij
spiritual organisms, similarly related to our own, as friendly or jj
malicious, innocuous or dangerous, simple or subtle ? In the conflict of j
these heterogeneous elements, in the struggle between these opposing jj
tendencies, brought together in a single organism, consists the jj
dramatic interest of man’s moral life; and again, as one or other of ij
them predominates in the individual, the strife, the progress, and deve- jj
lopment of societies. We speak, too, of sanguine and lymphatic, jj
gross and etherial temperaments, and I almost hear in these ij
expressions an unconscious acknowledgment of the much derided jj
elementary spirits. Herein, indeed, may even possibly be found jj
the explanation of mediumship. I have by me an old book, ij
printed for the first time the other day, but written in the 17th century, jj
of and concerning certain of these very elementary spirits, in which ij
the author adduces experimental proof that the persons liable to the ij
visitation of these beings, are those in whose physical constitution one j
or other of the (so-called) four elements is so predominant as to attract ij
and assimilate with the spirits of that particular element; so that this i j
is no new device. Spiritualists are ready enough now to vindicate the ij
discernment of the men of old in recognising spiritual agency. How j
will they get rid of the express testimony of St. Augustine, and other jj
fathers of the church, to the existence of the elementary spirits ? How jj
account for the elaborate treatises which it was thought worth while to j
write about their nature and relations to mankind? In Spiritualism jj
itself have we not cause enough to suspect the origin of many of the j j
messages we receive, and of the phenomena we witness ? I know not if j j
the doubt has occurred to others, but I find an entry in my diary of a jj
date long before I had thought about the elementary spirits, which shows j j
a misgiving arising spontaneously upon the evidence. It concerns the j j
utterances of a well-known “direct voice,” and is as follows:—“In jj
fact, should I come to the conclusion that this voice is not that of the j j
medium or of an accomplice, I should find myself somewhat in the jj
position of Edgar Poe’s amateur detective in the murders of the Rue j j
Morgue, when the suspicion darted upon him that that which had been j j
attributed to human agency, was, in fact, the work of an irresponsible j j
and irrational monster. Surely, surely we ought to get something defi- j j
nite, something intelligible from a human spirit, however low.” Mere jj
lying messages, and the vain-glorious assumption of distinguished jj
names, may reasonably be attributed to low human spirits; but commu- j
nications grotesquely inconsequent or self-contradictory, or evidently re- j
fleeting merely the intelligence and'information of the medium, must be i
suspected of another origin. And perhaps it is not very strange that i
Spiritualists, whose faith is rather emotional than logical, should have i
taken the alarm. Those, and they are many, who can derive daily con- j j
solation from such affectionate platitudes as “ God bless you, Mary,” jj
“John, I am always with you,” &c., are likely to be disturbed by j
every suggestion that tends to throw doubt upon the “ Message Depart- jj
ment.” jj
But the coldness of the welcome accorded to the poor “ elementaries,” ij
is as nothing compared with the wrath excited by the suggestion that j j
they can be controlled, and that this power is possessed by certain liv- jj
ing individuals. What! Is Spiritualism to be no longer a democracy ? jj
Is it to have an aristocracy of power, a priesthood of esoteric jj
knowledge ? And are we, forsooth 1 to be the vulgar and i j
profane, standing without the temple, while you, within it, jj
are being initiated into mysteries and invested with powers ? Truly, I j j
fear it must be so. Any one, say the Occultists, may become an adept; j j
but when one asks the conditions, the offer seems about as substantial jj
as the golden possibilities of Chancellorships and Archbishoprics held ij
out to stimulate the energies and industry of village school children. j(
Whether Mr. Felt will succeed in giving to the Theosophical Society
ocular demonstration of the elementary spirits remains to be seen; but
the language of the highest authorities on this mysterious subject would
certainly not lead one to suppose that practical magic is as capable of
verification by anybody who chooses to take a little trouble, as the
phenomena of mediumship. The raison d'etre of the Theosophical
Society is independent of the success of any particular experiment. It
is, as I understand it, an association of educated students, whose minds
have been emancipated from materialism, and who propose to seek
truth, knowledge, and perhaps power, in ancient sources, to which
modern research has traced the germs of every religion and every
spiritual philosophy. The name at first suggested for it was the Cabal¬
istic Society. It may be that undue stress is laid in the preamble on
the practical experiments in contemplation. Even if the latter are
successful, it does not follow that the report of them will be believed.
Experience shows that Spiritualists can be just as incredulous of facts
which do not suit them, as are the world at large about the spiritual
phenomena themselves. But, even in the event of failure, I cannot at
all assent to your contemptuous suggestion that the society should
stultify itself by an attempt to reduce every success recorded in the past
to cases of “ misunderstood mediumship.” In like manner a scientific
man, who has been present at a test seance which has proved a failure,
may be supposed to recommend the British National Association of
Spiritualists to apply itself in the future to the explanation of medium-
ship on the theory of undetected trickery.
An English Member of the Theosophical Society.
MESMERISING MEDIUMS.
Sir,—For the last twelve months I have been experimenting with a
private friend—a young man of nineteen—who proves to be one of the
best mediums I ever met with. We sit four or five only, and at no
sitting have we failed to obtain the usual physical manifestations of the
playing of musical instruments and the moving of various articles.
His development has been very rapid; the same guides always
present themselves, and profess to be his grandmother, his two cousins
—young girls—and a gentleman who was a Fellow of the Astronomical
Society, all of whom died within the last five years. Variations of the
original phenomena have recently occurred; the medium has been
raised in the air, while still sitting in his chair, to a height of four feet
from the ground, and small lights have made their appearance, issuing
from him, which, on one occasion, took the form of a female profile.
From the commencement of his mediumship he has always been
influenced to write, and of late some really beautiful essays have been
given through his hand, purporting to come, through his guides, from a
spirit in a higher sphere than they. We have also, four or five times,
obtained direct writing.
I have thus had singularly favourable opportunities of testing the
reality of these phenomena, and have frequently employed very strict
conditions, such as connecting together the whole of the sitters by a
continuous string knotted round the wrists of each.
My immediate object, however, in addressing you to-day is to detail
the occurrences at a sitting we held recently in my chambers. Besides
the medium and myself, there was but one present, an honour-man in
science of the University of London, who had never witnessed anything
of the kind, but who came to the inquiry with a truly scientific aspect
of mind, negative and critical, but receptive and interested. Obtaining
complete darkness we two sat opposite the medium, and were soon
gratified by the usual quartette performance; a violin being played,
a bell rung, the table tilted and ourselves touched, simultaneously, while
we all three were engaged in a lively conversation. Suddenly, some¬
thing was thrown with considerable force, hitting my friend beside me
on the arm and falling between us to the floor. On picking it up it
proved to be his pocket-book, which he perfectly well remembered
leaving on the piano in the next room: the spirits confirmed the sug¬
gestion that they had brought it through the wall, and, indeed, it is
certain that, whereas a quarter of an hour before it was known to be in
the next room, it was now here, no means of communication being
available except through the wall or closed doors ; the distance would
have been eleven feet from the medium and six from where it fell.
I had lately entertained the idea of mesmerising mediums, with the
view of placing them in a more passive condition, and so of possibly
obtaining higher manifestations; but I had been hitherto dissuaded
from doing so by the consideration that it might be fraught with danger
to the medium, from the cross action of the human and spiritual in¬
fluences. At the seance of which I now write, however, I determined to
make the experiment, with the hearty consent of the medium, and the
distinctly-expressed co-operation of his guides, who affirmed with
decisive knocks that no harm would ensue, that they would keep con¬
trol, and probably be able to use his vocal organs, and speak to us
through him. I accordingly placed him in a low easy chair, and he was
soon in a profound sleep, reclining easily, with his hands on his knees.
We then extinguished the light, and took up our places opposite to him.
The movements soon recommenced, but they were very slight, and, the
medium not being in direct contact with the table, I judged it best to
place his hands on it, making the arms rigid with a few passes. The
movements were then somewhat stronger, though not nearly comparable
with those at the outset: they were sufficient, however, to make my
scientific friend repeatedly admit that none of them either were, or
could have been, caused by the medium, even if in his normal state.
The raps on the table were very loud and vigorous, keeping time to
various melodies, and we were struck heavily upon the hands with hard
knuckles; but, as we were remarking that everything took place in a
comparatively narrow area, we heard a sheet of paper pulled from under
various things on the table, and then the noise of a pencil writing: the
paper was turned over, the writing continued, and the paper placed in
our hands with a signal to light. We read the following message,
Jan. 14, 1876. THE SP
written in a large bold hand, not in very straight lines, but perfectly
legible, and all the t’s crossed:—“Although the manifestations are not
so strong with our H  in this state, he is not near so weak and so
much influenced. It is much better for his good,” and then, over the
last three words, “Are not selfish.” It continued, “Sit again soon;
we like your new friend; let our H be mesmerised again. Did
you feel my knuckles? It is a good circle. Oh, yes. S. M.” We
were doubtful as to the import of the words, “Are not selfish,” and
requested further information, which was given in the following, written
for the most part over and across the former:—“ What I mean to say—
what we mean to say, rather—is, that you would rather have the
manifestations weaker, and your and our H not so much influenced,
and much weaker than have strong power and him affected: in other
words, you would consult the interests of our H rather than your
own.”
I should state that upon lighting up the first time we found the medium
in precisely the same posture, breathing regularly, but his handker¬
chief had been placed over his face, and the corners tucked in under the
chin. We now heard the handkerchief flapping in the air; they ap¬
peared to be de-mesmerising the medium, who gave signs of movement
and two or three deep inspirations. I was asked to complete the
restoration. We were still in the dark, and his hands were in the same
position, resting on the table. After a few passes he observed, “ Oh,
I’ve been mesmerised, haven’t I ? I feel so jolly.” On lighting up and
exhibiting the messages, it was his turn to be astonished.
Having stated the facts, I should be glad to hear the results of any
similar experiments, which must have an important bearing upon the
opinion—held, I think, by Mr. Atkinson and others—that the “ neces¬
sary delusion” of attributing to the spirit “ the sense or feeling or voice
of the inner power,” is a consequence of the free course which, in a
medium “ wanting the control and tie of a mesmeriser,” the “ loosened
power has in influencing matters without.” W. Newton.
Mitre-court, Temple.
“ MESMERISM EXTRAORDINARY.”
Sir,—It was with much sorrow and some indignation that I read in
The Spiritualist and other periodicals, an account of the sad results of
a psychological promise obtained by a mesmerist from a sensitive at
Govan, a week or two since. I felt indignation because the mesmerist
failed to fulfil his part of the promise, for had he, at the appointed time,
been at the appointed place, all would have been well. He, perhaps,
thoughtlessly obtained the promise from his sensitive, without the
slightest intention of fulfilling it. If such was the case his conduct was
most heartless and inhuman. I feel sorrow, because I heartily sym¬
pathise with the poor young man, because he was helpless to shake
off the influence when the time arrived for him to be controlled by
the mysterious power which set his will at defiance, ruled him with
despotic sway, and compelled him to perform actions against which
his utmost powers of resistance were as naught. He was thus left
unaided and alone; helpless in himself to shake off the influence
which he felt to be overpowering him; he went forth in his helpless¬
ness to gain freedom from the mesmeric influence with which the
mesmerist on the previous night, by means of a psychological promise,
had bound him. He afterwards became aware, in a confused manner,
that the mesmerist was not there, and that those who surrounded
him were incapable of recalling liim to his normal state by removing
the fascinating power which so thoroughly controlled him.
Such things as these bring mesmerism into disrepute with the
general public, but at the same time they set forth its mysterious,
marvellous powers, and its truthfulness. In the mysterious marvels
of mesmerism we have one of the broadest fields of psychological science
for examination that has ever been laid open for man’s investigation.
Of this my mesmeric experience has most thoroughly convinced me, and
that experience is by no means a short one, for I commenced the study
while yet in my “ teens,” and twenty-five years’ acquaintance with mes¬
meric phenomena has revealed to me more wonderful things in con¬
nection with our (present) spiritual existence than I care to enumerate;
it would be well if a few of these remarkable mesmeric, or rather,
psychological manifestations, were investigated by some of my brother
Spiritualists.
To illustrate this, I will not recount some of my own experiences, but
will take the case of the mesmeric promise made by the young man at
Govan, which must have been as follows:—
The mesmerist having subdued the young man’s brain, must have
placed him in what may be called (for want of a better word) a “psy¬
chological ” state, in which, while in full possession of all his faculties,
he is yet unable to act or to exercise his will-power, except it be in con¬
formity with the will of the operator. While in this curious psycho¬
logical state, swayed by a power which compelled him to act in direct
opposition to his wishes and his will, and to reason in a manner which
he inwardly feels is contrary to his desires, the mesmerist obtains
from him a promise, and then brings him back to his normal state.
Now for another curious feature of the case. The sensitive had no
recollection of having given a promise, nor does he know, unless told,
that he has done so. He is in every respect in his usual normal state,
and so the time passes away, until the period arrives when he must per¬
form his promise; then a “ something ”—a power, a force, a mysterious
influence, a controlling spiritual energy, call it by what name you will,
you must still fall back upon the original, and call it “ a something”—
steals over him; his normal state leaves him, and he passes again under
the mesmeric, or, as I would say, psychological influence. He is now
governed by but one idea, and for him life has but one object—to fulfil
his promise; and controlled by that mysterious, subtle power, whose
sway he is unable to resist, he takes “ his little jug full of broth ” and
goes to the place appointed. Had the mesmerist been there to have re¬
called him to his normal state, all would have been well; but no, the
ITUALIST. 21
l|| mesmerist is absent, and so the influence deepens, and the sensitive
|)| struggles within himself to shake off the mysterious shackles which
| j bind him. But the influence deepens and deepens, and, did space per-
!(j mit, I could give a description of the mental anguish and distress ex-
I! perienced by a sensitive while in this state, with the mesmerist absent.
! The sensations were once detailed to me by one of my own sensitives,
who had been in a similar condition. At last he is in a state of deep
mesmeric trance, and animation is suspended.
The mesmeric promise is but one of the numerous manifestations of
\[\ the mysterious powers of mesmerism. What profitable subjects are
I) these for full scientific investigation? It must be remembered that
jn they are facts, and one fact is worth more than a thousand theories,
j | Such being the case, does not a perusal of this curious illustration of
mesmeric susceptibility tempt one to inquire more fully into the cause
j j of the young man’s unknowingly passing into the psychological state, in
]: i order that he might fulfil the promise ? Was it the result of a mesmeric
in influence slumbering in him, and of which he was in ignorance? If so,
I (I by what means was it capable of intensifying itself, and becoming so
j)j powerful as to rule him with such despotic sway? Or was it that
!(j a psychological power was emanating from the mesmerist, of which he
( (the mesmerist) was unconscious? Of this I have had some curious
|; | proofs, and awkward experiences. And was this psychological influence
in brought by some means into contact with the spiritual vitality of the
j(i young man in such a manner as to control him and cause him to pass
/j into the mesmeric state? I know not! But this I know, that over
m and over again, while giving public mesmeric entertainments, has the
< influence departed from me, unknown to myself, and fixed itself upon
| i certain individuals among the audience, non-sensitives as well as
j(i sensitives, causing them to pass into the mesmeric state; yet I never on
Kj any occasion knew the demesmerising influence to pass from me to a
j non-sensitive, or even a sensitive, without I expressly willed that it
!(! should do so. S. R. Redman, Professor of Animal Magnetism.
\ | j Brixton-hill, Jan. 3rd, 1876.
(j
( ANGELS, SPIRITS, AND MEN.
j;j Sir,—Can either you or any of your correspondents, or readers,
j( inform the writer whether any spirit has ever communicated, through
j<I any known medium, who has not been bom a man or woman: that is,
I; I who has professed to be a being who never was so born, upon any earth,
j < I It must be remembered, that the Faith of Christendom has been for
i < [ ages past, (that angels proper are a distinct race from men; who were
||! created in and for the shining realms of being which they are supposed,
j(j at least, never to have left, excepting only the Archangel who fell, and
j < i drew down with him a number of subordinate ones, who constituted the
i | j first inhabitants of the infernal regions. Now, as some of those who
|(| communicate are set forth as “.angels,” I wish to know, and I doubt
i(| not but others would be glad to be informed, whether any of this pure
j race of angels, who never were men and women, have communicated, in
i (| their undisguised character, to mankind through these modern “ open
K mediums?'
||j Since it appears to be becoming the fashion to seek reliable informa-
j(j tion this way, rather than from the teaching of that Book which has
hitherto been confessed to have been of Divine origin, there are several
;d fundamental questions which it is important should be indisputably
K settled in this way, if this be the way in which fundamental knowledge
j|i can be obtained. But one question at a time is, perhaps, enough, and
j( so, awaiting an answer, I am, yours truly, T. Robinson.
jv! Newtonheath, Jan. Cth, 1876.
(j  
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MEDITTMSHIP.
Sir,—I am constrained to relate some experiences in the development
jjj of my medial powers in writing, under Mrs. Woodforde’s direction. At
j-j my first sitting Dr.Rush, Mrs. Woodforde’s chief medial control, put her
jvj in a trance, and gave me advice and great encouragement, speaking
j | j highly of my undeveloped powers. He said that a minor control of
jq hers would attend me and superintend my development at private sit-
i(i tings at home. After the second sitting with Mrs. Woodforde, when at
m my own house, I certainly felt spirit influence, but it was not until after
the next sitting with her that I had distinct evidences of spirit power.
After one or two more sittings I was able to read what I had written,
;)] and to receive answers to questions, and it was at this stage that the
i(j spirit of a young doctor attached himself to me, expressing his wish to
j accompany me abroad—as a temporary arrangement, however. After
m three or four additional sittings in the presence of the medium, a per-
h manent medical control was announced as Dr. Esdaile, who expressed
i|j his willingness to accompany me to India, to advise me upon all pro-
i | j fessional matters I undertake there—duties upon ground so well known
(| to him when on earth. I must say I have felt his control stronger than
Kj any I have yet had, and have every confidence in the rapport being well
11 j established. For all this I have to thank Mrs. Woodforde’s guides, who
\(\ appear to make it their study to provide suitable controls for those
K; developing under her care. That spirits should take this trouble
j/i to attend us in our daily walks and vocation here below, may
1(1 to many appear burdensome and even painful, but it may, I
KI presume, be accounted for from the fact that in rising above earthly
i/j conditions, and in becoming purified, they ascend into a state where
l(j pure brotherly love rules. Hence their willingness to undertake any
jjj work which may assist in alleviating the sufferings and wants of
1(1 humanity. In support of this I had a beautiful message, given through
Ij Mrs. Woodforde’s hand, by a visiting spirit, the control of a young
private medium, which I append : —
“ My brother! We rejoice in bearing you company in the walks of
| life, to assist, support, console, advise. We have thrown off the burthens
of the flesh, but none of those feelings which filled us during the life of
I the body. The same tastes, the same likes and dislikes, the same
I peculiarities of temperament, constitution of mind and talents, so to
22
THE SPlUlTtJAlilST.
Jan. 14, 1876.
speak, fill us, actuate us, and form our very being, influencing our mode
of life here as upon the earth. Therefore wo take a pleasure in joining
ourselves to you, to bear you company in your path or usefulness, and
to aid in relieving the wants and necessities of humanity: to uplift
them also, and ameliorate their condition. We find our highest pleasure
and our greatest good in working for that humanity struggling through
the mists and darkness of ignorance on the earth, and for that reason
we spirits crowd your world to operate here as upon a field of the
grandest usefulness, for what is so grand and great as humanity? What
so forcibly and piteously appeals to our hearts ? We, uplifted into the
light of this spirit world, see the causes of error, suffering, and pain;
and we yearn over you with a brotherly love, of which your poets may
write, and your orators eloquently depict, but of which you can form
but a poor conception in reality. It is that love which brings us down
to your sides to pick up anew, as it were, the burthens of life, to plod its
by-ways with you, and lo aid, direct, and teach you how to soften the
trials of others, how to relieve suffering, and, in other words, to work
for the elevation of humanity. As a physician a wide field is open to
you. A life of rich usefulness may be yours. Your desires are tliose of
an enlightened spirit, and we love to come to the help of those actuated
by such feelings as you possess, to do all the good you can in your time
and day for your fellow beings.—John Scott.” M. D.
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—There are strong indications of great future results in mate¬
rialisations if I take several isolated attempts into account. In one
sitting, when Mr. Oxley was present, not only did the form come dis¬
tinctly, but hands appeared over the top of the cabinet. When condi¬
tions are exceptionally good, the spirit looks beautiful and etherial, and
quite in harmony with her pure and elevating trance addresses through
the medium, with which Mr. Oxley seemed much pleased.
A few days ago a male head, with beard, appeared and spoke with a
manly voice, although the timbre of it had some slight resemblance to
that of the medium in the normal state.
After these sittings, our conversations at the table are generally
spiced with raps; on the last occasion I indulged in a little philosophi¬
cal discourse, and made the remark: “ Science has been hammering
away at the crust of the earth to discover the secret of all being, and
raised a terribly thick cloud of dust, so we are left groping our way in
the dark, losing all trace of heaven. Now you spirits send some
threads from the other side, but we, instead of delicately handling them,
pull rudely and hard, sometimes thinking of raising only ourselves, and
we make a mess of it." Quite a shower of loud raps responded as in
applause. I felt, however, my pride somewhat broken by the reflection:
these things are done by lower spirits, or even by the devil, but still I
feel shaky whether to go to the church, or to the other party.
C. Reimers.
Manchester.
SPIRITUALISM IN FRANCE.
Sir,—I believe that hitherto, one reason why The Spiritualist has
circulated, with enviable distinction, among the more thoughtful and
influential investigators in England and on the Continent is, that until
recently, its mission has been to scientifically examine and chronicle the
facts, and not the dreamy, ever-varying speculations which eminent
“ trance-speakers” utter with all the faith and emotional fervour of a
new gospel. If you begin to canvas for public belief in the compiled
‘‘ theories,” of the otherwise excellent Allan Kardec, hundreds of your
educated readers will throw Spiritualistic inquiry overboard. Give us
facts: the inferences must come to us as an after-glow, and according
to our own individual intelligence and philosophy. Advanced thinkers
—and especially those who are trying to ” broaden ” the higher genius
of a national Christianity—can no more subscribe to the ordinary
modem trance-speech revelations of “ mediums ” than they can fall
down before the doctrinal speculations of Wesley or Calvin.
We are told that the reincarnation theory is an outcome of the “ in¬
spired ” sayings of French mediums. Most of us know the type of in¬
formation “mediums ” give. With the rare exceptions of Cora Tappan,
Emma Hardinge, and Mr. Morse, the “ trance ” utterances of hundreds
of mediums in England and America scarcely equal the regular im¬
promptu “ holdings-forth ” of the clever Methodist local preachers; and
however much we may admire the beauties of thought and expression
in such “sensitives,” we prefer the oratory, and its charms, to the
“ philosophy ” and its revelations. A bouquet of flowers flung at a
hungry man will not appease the appetite that craves substantial food,
not to be found in the tints and in the original perfume; nor will tran¬
scendental “ trance orations ” satisfy the understanding of bold, mascu¬
line thinkers who are deeply concerned about the awful problems of life
and destiny. They must have a firm foothold, and a tangible object in
view, or they will not affect to travel. Hence the unpopularity of Allan
Kardec’s “trance-spoken” theory in England. Spiritualism—be it
fact or fancy—is at least picturesque, entertaining, and congenial;
but French “Spiritism” is repulsive and improbable, in so far as it
offers a vulgar flesh and blood immortality of hot and cold existences,
unrelieved by the continuity of family temperaments and affectiens, and
rendered melancholy in its successive contemplations by the enforced
absence of ever-green memories and those eternal accumulations of past
experience which will be the glory of personal identity. Small wonder,
then, that this Spiritism should be so repugnant to the Catholic miud
of France. The Latin Church, in its worst moments of dogma-making,
never conceived anything so absurd as this reincarnation whim of the
French mediums; and if Jesuitry is not to be congratulated upon its
subtle exposure of such a foolish doctrine, it may partly be excused in
its timely dread of a heresy that has no ennobling or encouraging
feature to recommend it. I am not trying to justify the actions
of the Papal Church in the recent Paris persecutions; and I yield to
none in my intelligent contempt for Jesuitical priestcraft. But, in
conclusion, I venture the opinion that if there be any truth, beauty,
and goodness in Spiritualism—as it is observed and reported in Eng¬
land—such a system of all important phenomenal philosophy would
sooner fascinate the influential Fathers of the French pulpit, and
command the respect of Parisian savants, than the barbarous
“ Spiritism ” of Allan Kardeo. John T. Markley.
Albert Place, Pelerboro*.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF CLAIRVOYANCE IN THE
HUMAN SPECIES.
Sir,—It is encouraging to find that the redoubtable champion of
materialism has yet some nebulous apprehension of the possibilities in
store for man, in a direction, if not spiritual, at least of such a rare¬
fied and attenuated material, that the terms are not worth quarrel¬
ling about. I have been reading his interesting work called Frag¬
ments of Science, and see that not only is he an advocate for the
existence of the subtle agent that pervades everything and is every¬
where, and is called ether (and which in my boyhood I fancied might
be, and am now inclined to think is, the connecting link between matter
and spirit, the most volatile element to us, and the most gross to the
intelligences of a higher sphere, and the vehicle in which they immerse
themselves, to manifest their presence, and work their will, and show
their power)—but that he also prophecies that the time may come when
the requisite organ shall exist, whereby we may scan the wonders that
surround us, which we, yet undeveloped, fail to ken.
This is the scientific mode, I suppose, of saying that seers will arise,
and another sense be one day added to our senses, five or six. Sweden¬
borg would call it the opening of the spiritual sight. Spiritualists would
call it clairvoyance. The Bible speaks of it as a fact that is to be, in
the words “ Your young men shall see visions, aud your old men shall
dream dreams.”
It is a matter, therefore, of interest, to note that the leader of
the materialist school of thought should in one case rarefy matter to
the degree of spirit, and in the other anticipate the growth of a junction,
whereby, we may, in the coming ages, be able to introspect the workings
of life and nature in a higher scale, if not another sphere.
Touching the element called ether, Professor Tyndall calls it "an all-
pervading substance, more solid than gas, yet infinitely more attenuated,'*
and this supports our philosophy regarding the solidity of spirit, and yet
its power of permeating things solid to us.
With reference to his views of development in man of a higher visual
sense, he says we are not entitled “to assume that man’s present
faculties end the series. Two-thirds of the rays emitted by the sun
fail to arouse in the eye the sense of vision. The rays exist, but the
visual organ requisite for their translation into light does not exist.
And so from this region of darkness and mystery which surrounds us,
rays may now be darting, which require but the development of the
proper intellectual organs to translate them into knowledge, as far sur¬
passing ours as ours surpasses the Iguanodon and bis contemporaries.’*
There is hope for Professor Tyndall even yet. Taos. Colley.
Portsmouth.
SOCIAL REFORMS.
Sir,—I am pleased to see in The Spiritualist of last issue a short re¬
port of a meeting held at the rooms in Great Bussell-street, which re¬
port is headed, iKA Social Idea,'* Perhaps it might interest your readers,
and call attention to so desirable an object as the one therein stated, if
you allowed a little correspondence on the subject to appear in your
columns. .We are often asked, What good has Spiritualism done? and
what benefit is humanity to derive from it?
One answer to this question certainly is, that it will of necessity lead
the minds of many men in different paths to those which the mass of
mankind formerly trod. Will those paths be better than the old ? Some
will answer, “ No,” but others, seeing from another standpoint, will
reply, “ Yes, and it comes with the expressed intention [of benefiting
humanity.”
One among the many subjects discussed by the adherents of Spirit¬
ualism is the social life of humanity, and the knowledge we are contin¬
ually gaining from the spirit-world brings to the surface new thoughts,
and new forms of thought, scattering them abroad through the world in
order that mankind may lay hold upon them, and, as they advance, act
accordingly. We know that some wild schemes have been broached in
the name of Spiritualism—schemes which may not be considered wild
in future ages; but having the present to deal with, we can only take
one step, and wait to see it completed ere another is taken.
There are many people, communist in theory, who see that it is im¬
possible, in the present state of humanity, to carry it into practice, yet
gladly, though silently, look upon every attempt made in that direction.
There should be a community of interest between every person in society,
although many people act as if there ought not; yet there is, and must
be, however individuals or different states of society may act, for no per¬
son does wrong without society suffering, and no person does good with¬
out society benefiting by it. I am fully persuaded that the system of
housebuilding now in vogue is wasteful to a great degree, at the same
time fosters a spirit of exclusiveness and indifference as to the welfare
of neighbours or any one else.
We have only to consider the number of extra fires needed under the
present system, the waste in the consumption of fuel, the extra amount
of work required to be doue, and many other things connected with
household arrangements which might be improved upon, if set about in
a proper spirit and manner, and not with the intention of taking exor¬
bitant interest for outlay. I might indicate two or three things which
I think society in part is ripe enough to adopt, of course, if suitable
buildings are constructed. One would be a “ common table ” for the
inhabitants of the block; the reason of this, I think I can make plain.
23
Jan. 14, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
To prepare meals for many persons is wasteful in cooking; where two
or three only compose a family they cannot cook a quantity of many
things without some becoming too old ere they can \)e eaten, and'if they
confine themselves to smaller quantities much of the goodness is lost to
them.
Heating.—If all the cooking were done in one part, the remainder
of the buildings might be heated with hot water, or in some other
economical manner, away from the cookery department.
Dormitories might be made for all young persons and children over
a certain age, always reserving a private room of good dimensions for
married persons. Places for recreation could easily be mode, and would
increase the general happiness.
There are many more reasons to urge on behalf of such a step being
taken, and I know there are weighty reasons to be urged against it;
but we must go forward until society sees, and practically acts upon,
the principle that every individual’s best interest is the abolition of all
that fosters self. If you can find space for the foregoing, and think it
contains anything suitable for your pages, I shall esteem its insertion a
favour. Tuos. Hickling.
12, Butter Market, Bury St. Edmunds,
10th January, 1876.
THE ALLEGED INFLUENCE OF WILL-POWER AT SEANCES.
Sin,—Allow me a few words in reply to the letter of “ Common Sense ”
in your last issue, together with your own editorial note thereto ap¬
pended, under the heading of “Alleged Influence of Will-power at
Siances."
Now, your correspondent does not assert that by the exercise of his
will he at all influenced the physical manifestations which occurred, and
which he described as consisting of the floating and manipulation of a
musical box, together with his being touched by what appeared to be a
finger.
The sole result of his “ willing ” appears to have been the (no doubt)
mesmeric “ twitching ’’ of a lady present.
Now from that it would seem he has simply proved nothing new by
the experiment, since mesmeric action is undisputed. Had he com¬
menced “ willingduring the occurrence of the physical manifestations,
and had the effect been the production of a positive influence thereon,
according to will, then methinks it might have opened a much newer
field.
On this point—and also referring to the editorial note, in which the
fact of your always having failed to influence the manifestations by
will, is stated—I wish to assert that I can generally cause, by the
action of my will, a table already in motion, to move in almost any man¬
ner I choose. I have tried the experiment repeatedly.
This seems to me most important, and I should be pleased to learn
the experience of others in this matter, since it is most desirable to
know the limits and conditions of the action of mind upon external
material. I am aware all tills may, and has been, attributed to mental
action upon the operating spirit, but this at least seems rather un¬
satisfactory.
It requires a mighty stretch of imagination on my part, to suppose the
“ departed ” perform ail the vagaries I have witnessed at spirit circles,
though facts have convinced me of their action in certain cases.
Any way, I think, sir, a discussion of the question of the action of the
will upon physical manifestations, could not be unprofitable.
Edwin Hall.
19, Els worth-street, CheethMB, Manchester, Jan. IQ, 1876*
ZCCO&CCC&SGOGOOGCOGCOCCCGCK
PROOF OF A FUTURE LIFE NEEDED.*
BT EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
There are multitudes, members of churches and others,
who are in a state of bewilderment as to our spiritual
manifestations, and who in vain look to the clergy for an
explanation. They can sadly and truly say:
“ I grope in the dark, and seek blindly
The hand that shall lead to the light;
There is no one to answer me kindly—
There is no one to teach mo the right.”
How many in the churches to-day are yearning for spiri¬
tual nourishment while receiving only husks, peering wist¬
fully into the realm of shadows for some gleam of light, for
some confirmation of their hopes of a future life, who finding
all the faintly uttered assurances of their religious teachers
unsatisfactory, at last, with the fading of their hopes, sink
to the condition of the writer in Ecclesiastes, and in their
despair of soul exclaim with him :
“ Wherefore I porooivo that there is nothing bettor than that a man should
rejoice in his own works, for that is his portion; for who shall bring him to
see what shall be after him ? ”
How many Sadducees, who believe neither in a resurrec¬
tion, nor in angel or spirit, are there in our churches to-day,
ignoring except in outward form and profession even the
very principles of Christianity ? u My brethren, these things
ought not so to he,” neither could they so he if the clergy
fully believed these things themselves, and could furnish the
proofs necessary to convince matter-of-fact minds of their
truth. If one-half of the Protestant clergymen of this
• From Dr. Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II.
i ! country were as conversant with the manifestations and
| j teachings of biblical and modern Spiritualism as thousands
|s| of laymen are in the cities of New York and Boston, and
Kj should to-day boldly commence preaching these truths,
i i within twelve months the remaining churches with their
; si pastors would be deserted, and if any single denomination
jlj were thus to preach Spiritualism, it would attract and gather
!>l within its churches from the other denominations so many of
jsj their adherents, that the latter would fall into decay from
Ki lack of support.
There is no less need of demonstrative proof of a future
H| life to-day than there was nineteen centuries ago—there is,
H! in fact, far more need of it, as unbelief is more prevalent
|)j than then. It is useless to ask thoughtful, self-relying men
;s| to believe, when the proofs are not presented, and it is only
H just and reasonable that those who attempt to convince them
i>J shall furnish evidence of their faith being founded upon
H demonstrated truth. This is requiring no more than Thomas
| j demanded, and which demand Jesus evidently did not regard
)| as sinful or unreasonable, and it is no more than Jesus con-
I ceded to the others to whom He appeared after His resurrec-
| tion.
For upwards of eighteen centuries the Christian world
has rested in the revelation given through Jesus Christ and
j His Apostles. That the knowledge derived through that
|) revelation was the highest which up to that time had been
jj given to men, there should be no question; but as Jesus
H| Himself said, they were not then prepared to receive all the
H! truth. Men can appropriate only those forms and degrees of
i knowledge which are adapted to their comprehension, and
m it is evident from the different ways in which that knowledge
i jj was, and even now is received, that they were presented with
Hi all they were capable of comprehending.
The various and diverse opinions now prevalent regarding
■ jj the phenomena and teachings of the Bible, mostly originated
v; during those ages when ignorance prevailed, and when even
Hj the best informed drew their knowledge from extremely
jj limited sources, by limited means. It could not be other-
jl wise than that circumstances other than those favourable to
i j fair investigation, calm reasoning, and strict adherence to
facts, should often determine views and opinions which some-
H times through fair, and at other times unfair influences,
b became the established articles of belief in the Church,
jj These articles, either in their original meaning and force, or
(j changed by succeeding ecclesiastical authorities, with perhaps
j) no better claim to infallibility of judgment, have descended
i) to our times, and demand the recognition of the Christian
(world; hut it would be difficult to show that any additional
evidence in proof of our continued existence, or of the
nature of that existence, has been furnished by the Church
since the time of the Apostles.
Yesterday Mr. J. J. Morse gave a trance lecture at the Atkemeum,
Queen-street, Wolverhampton. The public were admitted free of charge.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—On Tuesday evening, at the ordinary
; jj monthly meeting of the Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
j j into Spiritualism, the members present wore :—Mr. J. Tozeland in the
ijj chair, Mr. Thomas lily ton, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. R. Pomeroy
ITredwen, Mr. Thomas Wilks, and Mrs. Wood. The minutes of the
last meeting were read and confirmed. Letters of general interest were
read from Mr. Henry D. Jencken, Dr. Francis W. Monck, Mr. Algernon
i Joy, Mr. Huy Nisbet, and Miss Lottie Fowler. The auditors’ report by
Messrs. J. Tozeland and G. R. Tapp was submitted aud approved. The
draft report of the Council, with statement of accounts, as certified by the
i )i auditors, was framed for submission to the members at the half-yearly
I general meeting to bo held on Thursday, the 27th iust. A notice of re¬
signation from Mr. A. Ferguson Black was “ accepted with regret.’’
The honorary secretary read a letter from Mr. Martheze, who was
unanimously elected a life member. Presentations to the library were
reported of copies of JIafed, Prince of Persia from Mr. Martheze and
Mr. Hay Nisbet, and Angelic Revelations from Mrs. Wood. A vote of
jj thanks was passed to the donors. There was a good muster of mem-
! jj hers at the rooms on Tuesday evening last, after the Council meeting,
j )J and Dr. Sexton, honorary member, read a paper upon “ Occult Psycho-
ij logical Phenomena occurring outside what is called Spiritualism.” Mr.
Hj Thomas Blyton was voted into the chair, in the absence of the president
ijj elect, and introduced Dr. Sexton to the meeting. The paper narrated a
! j i large number of authenticated cases of trance, clairvoyance, and
ill psychometry. The paper was listened to with interest, aud at the
ijj close a cordial vote of thanks to Dr. Sexton was moved by Mr. Thomas
ij Wilks, seconded by Mr. R. Pomeroy Trod wen, and carried unanimously,
jj The paper will be published in full in the forthcoming issues of the
ijj Spiritual Magazine.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1876.
WINTER MEETINGS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
By Geoege King.
The three meetings already held by the British National
Association for reading papers and discussion have been, as
all who have been present are agreed, eminently successful;
and the reports which have appeared in your columns have, I
believe, given satisfaction to the general body of Spirit¬
ualists. The Council therefore has resolved to continue the
course fortnightly till the end of April, the first meeting of
the present year to be held on the 24th inst.
The Committee has had under consideration two subjects
for future discussion, Mesmerism and Physical Mediumship,
which will probably be brought forward successively as the
necessary arrangements are completed. It is intended that,
if possible, mesmerism shall be practically illustrated as well
as discussed, so all those who have had personal experience
should render assistance, at any rate by attending. The
secretary will always be glad to receive communications on
behalf of the Committee.
Letters have been addressed to friends who are known to
have witnessed, through members of their own families,
striking manifestations of physical mediumship, and the
questions have been put to them which were published in
The Spiritualist of Dec. 3rd, under the heading, Experi¬
ments in Mesmerism.” It depends on the answers received
what form the discussion will take, but on a matter so
important interesting results cannot fail to be recorded.
The experience of the past meetings will assist
those who intend to respond to the queries of the
Committee. In the discussion, for instance, on Spirit
Photography, two broad classes of facts came into
prominence. In the first place, cases showing the authen¬
ticity of spirit photography were adduced, and several gentle¬
men of unquestioned honour and intelligence came forward
to state that, not only in their opinion, but to their personal
knowledge, it is a grand reality. For the outside public
and for the numerous sceptics among Spiritualists such
utterances are invaluable, and they must give an impetus
to research and discovery. But in the second place, facts
of scarcely less moment were brought to light, which, if
followed up and compared with observations in other depart¬
ments, would greatly increase man’s knowledge, both spiri¬
tual and physical. It was clearly proved by the concurrent
testimony of independent operators that ordinary light has
but little to do with the process, and that the lenses of the
camera may be discarded, as they are apparently without
effect, the spirit not even being inverted by them as would
be the case with a mortal. This accords with what is known
of mesmerism, for the vision of a mesmerised patient is not
assisted by either microscope or telescope; hence we have
unexpected internal evidence of the genuineness, on the one
hand, of spirit photography, and, on the other, of the
intimate relation which subsists between apparently uncon¬
nected subjects. This latter class of facts can, however, be
received only by the initiated.
Following the example as above sketched out, let those
who intend to contribute papers on mesmerism, physical ;
mediumship, or any other subject, keep these two objects in I
view—to provide positive testimony to the reality of the !
phenomena, and to record their observations on any remark- j
able characteristics that may come under their notice, even |
though seemingly insignificant. If this course be pursued, j
there will be abundant material about which usefully to I
write, and persons of every mental constitution will find j
matter to interest them in the discussions.
Strenuous support should be given to the committee, who i
can only organise and not originate. It would greatly assist j]
them if friends would send in suggestions, both as to what jj
questions to bring forward, and how best to provide for jj
their being efficiently discussed; and every one who has a j
paper ready, long or short, on any suitable subject, or who j(
intends to write one, should communicate with the secretary !
without delay. :
Prince Wittgenstein will leave Vevey for St. Petersburg towards jj
the middle of this month; he is giving all the aid he can to the jj
scientific committee there appointed for the investigation of spiritual i j
phenomena. 1 ‘
j j iJrobmctal fUtos.
I I ^ NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
j j I The Misses Wood and Fairlamb are in London for a few weeks,
j(j fulfilling a private engagement connected with the scientific investiga-
jjj tion of Spiritualism.
i(j The Newcastle Express of Wednesday, January 5th, contained an
I article having reference to the fiasco at Liverpool, and not at all com-
j plimentary to Mr. Herne, or Spiritualists in general.
The seances held at the Freemasons’ Hall, Weirs-court, during the
j absence of Misses Wood and Fairlamb, will be such as will tend to
j help on the development of other mediums in the Spiritualist Society,
jj Among these mediums are Messrs. High and Greenwell, both of whom
j)j are developing as trance speakers, and a seance which was held on
jjj Wednesday, the 5th inst., with them, passed off satisfactorily. Mr.
ijl Greenwell, while under control, spoke in a foreign language for a little
j (i time, then in broken English.
j ji A lecture was given by Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., in the Lecture-
jjj hall, Nelson-street, on'Thursday, the 6 th inst., on Frictional Electricity,
i jj and he stated in his opening remarks that it was thirty-five years ago
j|j since he gave his first lecture on the same subject, and in the same hall;
j\j he hoped and believed that in the next world we should be able to
jjj continue our investigations, and on looking back to compare notes then
j) j as now. Several other lectures are to be delivered; the later ones will
ijj be of a psychological nature.
j(j A penny weekly journal has been started in Newcastle, entitled, The
j < I North of England Review; it gives attention to temperance, dietetic
jjj and social subjects. Among the contributors to its pages are Dr. Sexton,
|| Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., and Mr. E. T. Bennett.
|jg ' , _ Hp
J THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS AND
j | ^ THE SPIRITUALIST PRESS.
jn We have much pleasure in publishing the following letter:—
To the Editor of u The SpiritualistP
jjj Sir,—I am instructed by the Council to make a correction of certain
j>j misconceptions which have lately been circulated in some parts of the
jjj country, affecting the British National Association of Spiritualists and
jjj its relation to the Spiritualist press, and to beg that you will kindly
jjl give it as much publicity as possible.
jjj It is supposed by some that The Spiritualist newspaper is the “organ”
jji of the Association, and that each is responsible for the acts and opinions
ijl of the other; also, that the Association is more or less under the influ-
j j ence of Mr. Harrison, and was started to promote his interests,
j i These are errors, as the following explanation will show,
jjl When the Council first resolved to give publicity to its meetings, the
j (i invitation to report its proceedings was extended to all the Spiritualist
I''{ newspapers without distinction; its advertisements were tendered to all
j alike, and free tickets to soirees and other meetings were regularly sent
j out.
The Spiritualist having fully responded to every invitation, the
j Association stands so far indebted to it, that as much publicity as that
journal is able to give has been on all occasions ungrudgingly afforded;
jj but for editorial remarks, for the form and manner of the reports, or
(j for the opinions of The Spiritualist on organisation and other matters,
jj the Council is in no way responsible. Indeed, it is thought by some
jj members of the Association to be an advantage over editing “ Transac-
j j tions” of its own, that its proceedings are published to the world at large,
jj and are open to the wind of criticism from every quarter,
ji With regard to the second misconception, I have simply to state that
(j Mr. Harrison has only the same connection with the Association as any
jj other private member. It is true that he has from time to time ad-
jj dressed letters of suggestion to the Council—but this is the privilege of
Ij every member; such letters are at all times received with pleasure by
jj the Council, though the suggestions put forward may not be always
ji adopted.
jj A copy of this letter has been sent, by order of the Council, to the
jj editor of every Spiritualist paper and periodical in this country,
j Emily Kislingbury,
l j Secretary Brit. Nat. Association of Spiritualists,
1 i 38, Great Rub soil-street, London, W.C.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
The second volume of The Spiritualist Library series is in the press,
and is written by Dr. Gully, the high quality of whose literary labours
is fully recognised by Spiritualists. The book deals both with the
religious and phenomenal aspects of Spiritualism.
The large penny pamphlet for sale at public meetings, of which many
thousands will be printed, will go to press in a few days, so advertisers
should send in their announcements at once to The Spiritualist News¬
paper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London.
The Birmingham Daily Mail of last Tuesday contains a report a
column and a half long, of the recent meeting in connection with
Spiritualism, held at the Athenaeum Rooms in that town.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Errata.—Cornelius Agrippa lived in the 15th and not in the 19th century,
as stated in the article quoted in this journal from the Spiritual Scientist
last week. In the Spirit T'eachings of last week the word “ larceny ”
should have been “ luxury.”
Jan. 14, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT BUS 3 ELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Cd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.:
REPORT ON SPIRITUALlSMj by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.: moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ^ by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
’WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and ah account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM 1? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychicl Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during thie past, few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament ana the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN HARD EC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them ; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals {were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.hy disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote 'daring the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the pi’eceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM,MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hynins, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Cd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Cd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Od.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Cd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. cd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Cd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Cd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. Cd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Cd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. Cs.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Cd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Cd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. fid.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Cd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. cd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Cd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Cd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. fid.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS : A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Cd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Cd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Cd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONi) ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase
4s. Cd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Cd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM,PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
—Continued.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER By C. M. Burnett. M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Cd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s. ;
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." >
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III, „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ • ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The SpieituaIiIst Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . ..50
History of American Socialisms .(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske.' M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North '
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . .. . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools , , , ..10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM ? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
' J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Cd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Cd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Cd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Cd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. IS.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
The GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five’
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Cd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin E. Smiih, Esq.
Cnarles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelina von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. F. Da we, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Secretary a
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Gr«
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen¬
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq,
Treasurer.
Russell-street, London, W.G.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the.
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
i's existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a onsiderable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and. intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, mav to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, London, W.C.
List op Subscriptions to January 5th, 1876.
Mr. Martin R. Smith     £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze       50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne    40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    20 0 0
A Friend  ;     20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod    20 0 0
Comte de Bullet        20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.  10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D    10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A  5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, P.R.S   5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D    5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey      5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald     5 0 0
A Friend        5 0 0
Signor Damiani    3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood     2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald      2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S     2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery      220
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D  2 2 0
“ Enuesfallen ”'        2 2 0
Three Friends 1  2 2 0
Col. Olcott        2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent      2 0 0
Dr. Baikie     2 0 0
Miss Douglas   2 0 0
M. H. C    2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh    2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland  2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cdok   1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King    110
Mr. F. A. Binney  i  110
Mr. J. Coates       110
Mrs. Maltby       110
Mrs. Kislingbury       110
Mr. B. W. Pycock     110
Mr. B. Coleman         110
Mr. R. Fitton ‘      ....'    110
Major Menars     110
Mr. John Lamont        110
Mr. Archibald Lamont   1 1 0
Mr. T. B. Griffin     110
Mr J. B. Stones    110
Mr. J. Regan     110
Mrs. Regan   110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese    1 1 0
Rev. W. Wnitear    110
Miss Whitear   &   110
Mr. C. E. Williams     110
Mr. A. Glendinnicg   110
Mr. H. Witball     110
Captain James      110
Mr. F. W. Percival v  110
Mr. Christian Reimers     110
Mr. Thos. Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant    1 1. 0
Mrs. Geo. Neville   110
Mr. G. R. Tapp   110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson  110
Mrs. Woodforde '.   110
Mr. T. M. Simkits     110
A Friend    ‘.Yl....   110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead   110
Mr. D. H. Wfson   ..v;..  110
Mrs. M. T. Wood   110
Mr. John Scott  :    110
Mr. O.T. Hook     110
Baroness von Vay b      10#
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A Subscriber    '   10 0
Amicus    10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton    1 0 0
M.A. (Oxon.)       10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes 10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee   0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett  0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin    0 10 6
Mrs. 4.aron Franklin   0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp       0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald    0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock ..;        0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blvton ; ;    0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts     0 10 0
J. F. C   0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy    0 6 0
Miss Kislingbury       0 5 0
“Peterboro”    .....;  0 5 0
A. C. W    0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald     0 5 0
A Clergyman        0 5 0
A Reader of The Spiritualist  0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson       0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce    0 5 0
Small sums ...;      0 5 3
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULT< MATRON, AND DESTINY
OF THIS
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—-The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The B!uman Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—Toe Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—S'v'ritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Argelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ IS.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—U )ity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Pari III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, aud not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of tho volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
77V***/ R/iH.ifvn.
IMPORTANT NEW POBLIGATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-stret-.t, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritua ism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout tl.e country.
From the large circulation t1 us secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or poi tion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increise their income by
the profit's on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russeil-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. V«. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capncines, Paris.
HP HE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
■ OF THE HOMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Aihent&um. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.1'—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
IPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
1 PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man? The “one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment ; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; Tho Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done un in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu-
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Now Ready, pp. 592, demy Svo, handsomely bound, extra
cloth, 10s., by post, Us.
HAFID, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His expe¬
riences in Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit
Communications received through Mr. David Duguid, the
Glasgow Trance Painting Medium, with an appendix, contain¬
ing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruisdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes of Forty-five Drawings and
Writings, the nirect work of the Spirits.
From numerons eulogistic expressions of opinion by snb-
scribers, the publisher has much pleasure in giving the
following from S. C. Hall, Esq.:—
Avenue Villa, 50 Holland-street, Kensington, W.
December 27,1875.
Dbab Mb. Nisbet,—You have sent me a most wonderful
book. It has given me intense delight. I cannot exaggerate
if I say I have never yet read a book that has given me such
deep and delicious joy—with only one exception, The Book,
which this book so thoroughly upholds. Surely it wifi be so
with all who believe in and love the Lord Christ. . . . Blessed
he the God of love and mercy, who sent him to reveal and to
elucidate the great truths of the Gospel. Mrs. Hall is reading
it now. But I must read it again, and yet again. It will
companion the New Testament that stands at my bed-head,
and in which I read a chapter every night. Send me two
more copies... . Burns says tt is cheap: it is worth its weight
in diamonds. But I wish it had been in two volumes.—Ever
truly yours, S. C. H ALL.
London: James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C. Glas¬
gow : H. Nisbet, 219, George-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout tlie Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art. Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.8., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) : Tlie Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.): Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. 0. Lnxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Hollywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”• Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna): Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
€ CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
J ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, A vb
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
