AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 100.—(Vol. V.—No. 4.) 'LONDON: JULY 24, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
tEontentg.
Tbe Correlation of Spiritual Manifestations  37
A Trance Lecture by Mr. Morse   38
Religious Reflections in Glasgow Cathedral. By Count de Medina
Boxnar    5    39
Mr. Epes Sargent on Spiritualism       41
Speculations about Reincarnation. By Prince Wittgenstein  42
Tbe Soiree of the 1874 Conference ...    42
National Organisation    42
Psychological Experiments. By tbe Baroness Adelma Vay   43
M. Buguet’s Spirit Photographs. By the Countess of Caithness   43
The 1874 Conference of Spiritualists     ... 44
Correspondence—The Doctrine of Reincarnation, 44; Further Com¬
munications from the Spirit calling himself an Egyptian, 45;
National Organisation, 47; A Sandgate Clergyman on Spiritualism,
47; The Divining Rod       ... 47
Arcanum Arcanorum. Translated by Barbara Honywood    ... 48
Answers to Correspondents      48
Paragraphs.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz. .
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October loth, 1874.
Be has a few vacant dates for Sepiember next; early application is
necessary.
Opinion* of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character. ’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow. E
mO;THE READERS OF “THE MEDllJM.,, Answer
A to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with th» Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
Will be held in London (Lawson’s Rooms, 145, Gower-street), from the
4th to the 7 th of August.
GENERAL PROGRAMME.
Tuesday, August Ath.—Opening Soiree, to be held at Beethoven Rooms,
27, Harley-street, Cavendish-square. Tea at 6 o’clock. Chairman’s address
at 8 o clock, on detailed arrangements of conference.
Wednesday, August 5th.—First session .of conference, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Second session 3 p.m. to 5.30 p m. Subjects for consideration: “ Organi¬
sation and the Physical Phenomena.”
Thursday, August 5th.—Third and fourth sessions at same hours. Sub¬
jects: Direct Voice, Writing, and Painting; Inspirational and Trance
Speaking; Spirit Phutogi aphy; the Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity
—Past, Present, and Futuie.
Friday, August Ith.—Public Meetings at 3 and6'30 at the Crystal Palace.
On tbe evenings of Wednesday and Thursday arrangements will be made
as far as practicable for the holding of seances for the different classes of
phenomena.
Terms of Admission -. Soiree—Members’ tickets, Is. each; non-members,
Is. 6d. Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings, members free upon pre¬
sentation of their card ef membership; non-members Is. to each session, or
to each public meeting, or by 2s. 6d. ticket to the entire course. Non-mem¬
bers purchasing two 2s. 6d. tickets will have the privilege of nominating a
person to be a u.ember of the Association until the end of the current year.
The Secretaries will be in attendance at the soiree for the purpose of re- #
cording the applications of persons properly introduced to become members
of the Association. These, upon payment of the Members’subscription, will
be entitled to admission to the Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings
free.
Tickets to be had of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill,
W., and of the Editor of the Pioneer, 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn.
PERSONS willing to CONTRIBUTE PAPERS on the
following subjects are invited to send their names to A. Jo y, Esq., 25,
James-street, Buckingbam Gate.
1. Tbe best means to be employed by the Association in promoting the
organisation of Spiritualists.
2. The philosophy and purpose of physical manifestations.
3. The best conditions (mental,physical and social), for evolving physical
manifestations.
4. The “Direct” Voice Writing, and Painting.
5. Inspirational and trance speaking.
6. On Spirit Photograpny.
7. The influence of Spiritualism on Humanity, Past, Present, and
Future.
The papers must be sent to A. Joy, Esq., not later than Friday, the 31st
July. All accepted papers to remain the property of the Association, un¬
less specially agreed otherwise. Non-members contributing accepted
papers will be elected Honorary Members for the remainder of the current
year. No paper to occupy more than 15 minutes in reading.
T. Ever ITT, Chairman, Conference Committee.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman's Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyf.rhan.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers
n
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
. The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS*
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I i Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
in’o England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were termed, some of which were
continued f< r a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road. and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. ; Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the OfiBcers of the Association
* at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30 Parkfleld-street. Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOE
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
July 24, 1874.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By tbe Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne w Intro¬
duction Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of *he Fittest—Limits and l irections of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
TVeoswer.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for YAe/Spiriftiofist Newspaper.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATifi STREET, BOLBOBN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Priuting Department every arrangement has been made for the
promp' execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the PuBti-HiNG Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
ri-tail prices. London and count y agents supplied with all k nds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NE W0A8TLE-0N-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Mi'ler. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, t ' commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30. to commence at 8.
On no account will anvoue be aimitted after the time announced for
commencing 'he meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. Established 1870.
74, Navarino Road, Dalston,
' London, E., 16ih Juiy, 1874.
•XTOTTCE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the EIGHTH
JLn HALF YFARLY GENERAL MEETING of this Association will
be holden at the ROOMS, as above, on THURSDAY EVENING, tbe 30th
July it stant, at 8 o'clock, precise'y. ■ Members are urgently requested to
attend to consider the undermentione d buldness:—
1 —Report of the Council, and Balance Sheet for the half-year ended 30th
June. 1874.
2. —election of Officers for the current half-year.
3. —Letter from the ‘•British National Association of Spiritualists ” re¬
affiliation.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospeotua
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism,. Scientiac and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.O., and can he ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all informa'ion concerning the Various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
AU communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAZER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T3EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiqnes,
JLVi foode par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every monih. Price,
I franc. Published bj the Sndete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOJLUJVIE FIVE. JMUJVIBE^ FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 24th, 1874.
EstABLISHBD IN 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrkspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T: Blyton, II, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
■ Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. IV. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be- ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A Grant and Co., 383. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifttt-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street. •
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swahston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, filizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thorntou, 19. Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hi 1.—Mr. 0. \. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78 Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswiek-street.
Richmond.—Mr. T Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholas, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. fhornfeldt. Main-street.
Tara dale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America. Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sum's
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARTLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIR IT D ALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, LissOn-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
THE CORRELATION OF SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
A fortnight ago a leading article on the above
subject was printed in these pages, and in following the
same lines of thought, some hitherto unnoticed and
unsuspected relationship between full form materialisa¬
tion manifestations, and a particular kind of writing
mediumship, may now for the first time be pointed out.
Mr. Flint and Mr. Mansfield of New York, have long
been reputed to’ possess the power of answering sealed
letters j that is to say, letters may be addressed to the
spirits of departed friends, and enclosed in a blank
envelope with no name or address outside; this envelope
may be sealed or secured in any possible way, yet the
spirits about the mediums will read the contents) and
enable the spirit addressed to send a reply. This reply,
with the original sealed letter untampered with, is then
returned to the sender.
Of course there are methods of opening letters and
resealing them so as to show little or no trace of the
operation. It is needless to say that educated American
Spiritualists are far too intelligent not to have tested the
mediumship so as to set aside this objection, nor do we
think it necessary to give space to describe how we
provided against it, in the particular cases about to be
described. Suffice it to say, both letters we sent to test
the powers of the two mediums were not tampered with;
the seals to the minutest portions of their rough edges
were the same on return as when sent, and the envelopes
clean, crisp, and unbent as at first.
The spirit addressed in the letter inside each envelope
had three Christian names (one; of them a French one)
in addition to her surname. These four names were
accurately appended to the replies through the mediums
purporting to come from her, so that places *• guessing**
out of the question. Moreover, the proper names of
all the three or four other persons mentioned in our
letters were also given in the replies. And every
question we put to the spirit was answered in categori¬
cal order.
Here, then, at first sight, was a wonderful proof of
spirit identity. But on critical examination it was
plain that all the knowledge which the communicating
intelligence possessed about the departed had been
gathered from our questions ; no knowledge whatever
of her affairs was displayed in the replies, outside the
contents of the questions. Nor was any person named
in the replies who had not been named in the questions,
with one unfortunate exception—she wished to be’re¬
membered to Mr. Blyton. As she was unacquainted
J with Mr. Blyton on earth, whence this sudden interest
in him ? In our letter to Mr. Mansfield, one of the
Spiritualist printed advertising circulars was enclosed,
in which it was stated that Post Office orders should be
made payable to Mr. Blyton. The method of address¬
ing letters, the general style of composition, and the
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 24, 1874.
handwriting of the replies, were not those of the de¬
ceased.
Some years ago Mr. Blackburn wrote in a similar
way to a spirit, and sent the questions under cover to
Mr. Mansfield. The following is a letter from Mr.
Blackburn on the subject:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—A few years ago I tried the experiment of testing J. V.
Mansfield, of New York, respecting sealed letters, and the
results I found to be very satisfactory. I sealed a packet con¬
taining nine questions, in the presence of two gentlemen, who
assisted in gumming and cording with silk thread,and putting
their seals also upon it, and deposited it in our Manchester
post oflSce. It came hack to me with all seals unbroken, and
all questions fairly answered, by the return steamer. Within
twenty-four hours after its arrival, it was answered and
returned, to the astonishment of the two gentlemen belonging to
our Exchange. The questions pertained to my daughter who
died ten years ago. I hand them to you, and the answers (to
be returned) in the original; merely showing you of some
great truth lying at the bottom of our natures we are all very
ignorant of, in Spiritualism. Chables Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
23rd June, 1874.J
Admitting the facts of the original letter and its
fastenings not having, been tampered with, a critical
examination of the reply shows that the whole of the
knowledge it displays of the affairs of the deceased,
might have been derived from Mr. Blackburn’s questions.
So much for the facts of these three cases on the one
side. On the other, it may be remembered that Prince
Wittgenstein recently addressed a sealed letter to Miss
Cook’s Katie King, which Mr. Crookes enclosed in a
second envelope, and further secured with four or five
seals of his own. Katie copied that letter word for word
and replied to it; we read her reply at the time, and
were struck by the circumstance that it displayed no
more knowledge of Prince Wittgenstein or his friends,
than previously known to Katie or her medium. Fay,
more, although we have attended such a great number
of voice circles and materialisation circles, through all
the five or six mediums who get such manifestations in
London, we have never once been present when the
voice spirits constantly connected with the mediums
have given any good proof of spirit identity, or proved
themselves to know more than was known to the
medium or might have been known to him or her by the
exercise of clairvoyant powers. The exceptions have
been when these voice spirits have stood on one side,
and with much caution and apparent jealousy, permitted
others to attempt to communicate.
The mental characteristics of these voice and
materialisation spirits are now well known, also their
close alliance with the medium. The experiment with
Miss Cook proves they can clairvoyantly read sealed
letters, and altogether there is strong presumptive
evidence that the three answers now under notice given
through the mediumship of Messrs. Flint and Mansfield,
did not come from the spirits whose names were ap¬
pended to the communications, but from spirits who were
practically the “ doubles ” of those mediums. Further,
although acting tipon first impressions, one might, like
David of old, be tempted to speak in haste as to the
veracity of the communicating intelligences, the student
of mesmerism will pause, knowing how powerfully
mental influences from all sources will act upon
sensitives, and make them believe things which are not.
Miss Lottie Fowleb, whose great clairvoyant powers
are so well known, has changed her address to 21, Princes-
Btreet, Hanover-square, two doors from Begent-street.
A TRAFCE LECTURE BY MR. MORSE.
A few days ago Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a trance lecture
at the Town Hall, Bishop Auckland. The following report of
it is from The Auckland Times and Herald:—
Mr. Morse, who spoke in the trance state, commenced by
remarking that in dealing with his subject as announced he
had to “ run the gauntlet ” of criticism from two opposite
parties, viz., objectors who were found within the ranks of
Spiritualists themselves, and objectors who were outside the
ranks, so that in a manner of speaking he found himself
between two fires. In spite, however, of this difficulty he
should address himself to the question as advertised. Dealing
first with the objectors within the ranks of Spiritualism, and
who were represented as regarding Spiritualism merely as a
collection of remarkable facts, and not as something upon
which could be raised the fabric of a religion, the speaker pro¬
ceeded to point out the inconsistency of such objections. If
the facts of Spiritualism were true, they must have a value to
the world, or if not to the world, they must have a value of
themselves. To deny the possibility of raising a religion from
them was tantamount to saying that the facts themselves were
of no value. To deny that the facts were true was to bring a
charge of untruthfulness against some of the best men and
the keenest minds in the world. If there was no religion in
Spiritualism, and no philosophy or value in the facts, it would
have been better for the world had Spiritualism never
dawned upon it. The facts of Spiritualism, however, were
true, and had a determinate value of themselves, and
he proposed to deal with those facts in a comparative
or analogical manner. The two systems of Spiritualism and
Christianity, or rather Churchianity, both professing to deal
with man’s spiritual nature, were clearly susceptible of com¬
parative analysis, and it might reasonably be expected that the
new system would, to some extent at any rate, support the old
one, so far as that old one was true. But on the other hand,
he who had examined the facts of Spiritualism must be blind
indeed, if he rejected the new system because it did not accord
altogether with the old one. Those who carefully inquired
into the facts of Spiritualism were bound to come to several
definite conclusions. First, that the facts themselves were
true; secondly, that the communicants were spirits who had
left this world; and thirdly, that these spirits were now living
in the spirit world. Admitting these facts, it followed that
parties living in the spirit world knew more about that world
than people on earth could possibly know. The value of these
facts, therefore, was of the utmost importance, because they
inevitably led to the conclusion that modern Spiritualism was
the source from which man could be most fully informed re¬
specting his future destiny. Spiritualism had the universe for
its foundation, and God the Father of all, for its hope. He who
tried to limit his conceptions to a system or a church could not
be free. Spiritualists claimed the utmost freedom in religious
thought. They did not believe that religion was confined to
Churchianity, or that God was to be praised alone in set forms
of prayer, or through the formula of splendid rituals. They
did not believe in any kind of infallibility on earth, and
regarded the notion of infallibility in religious dogmas as
absurd as the idea of an infallible spiritual ruler. What were
the facts of Modern Spiritualism ? He would enumerate some
of them. Spiritualists claimed to have some definite know¬
ledge of a future state. Let them contrast their belief in this
respect with that of orthodox Christianity. What professing
Christian could say what the future really was ? He ques¬
tioned if there was one who would attempt it. It was a sealed
>mystery which, they were told, they had no right to penetrate.
Who, he would ask, was in the better position, the man who
walked in the bright sunlight of knowledge and felt strength¬
ened thereby, or the man to whom the future was an inscru¬
table mystery ? It was for them to decide. He would
not for a moment attempt to impose the belief upon
any man. Then, again, Spiritualism was adapted to
the twofold nature of man, because it showed him how he
should live here to fit himself for the future. In other
words, it taught him to live in harmony with God, and the
great purposes of his being. Spiritualists believed that men
ought so to live here as to prepare themselves for the unfold¬
ing and expansion of their faculties in the spirit world, and
that as those faculties were unfolded here, so would be the
measure of their exaltation and purification in the future.
There were some who disputed this, and said that by “ faith
alone” could a man hope to be exalted in the spirit world.
He had no wish to quarrel with those who entertained that
notion ; but while admitting that faith was to them the road
of their highest good, they ought not to try to prevent others
July 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
from pursuing a different course. Freedom of thought was
the very essence of all true religion. It was said of Spirit¬
ualism, that if generally believed in, it would tear up the
present foundations of society, and reconstruct, so to speak,
the daily life of men. Supposing that it did, what then ?
Had the world never been revolutionised before ? How many
of the earth’s greatest men had cast off their old opinions?
All history was but one continuous throwing off of crude
opinions, and the acceptance of higher and better, and purer
ones. But let them take another of the deductions of
Spiritualism. The philosophy of modern Spiritualism
taught that death was only an incident in the career
of the human spirit; one of the purposes of the Divine
Father, and as such was not a thing to be dreaded; that
it was not unnatural or unkind, but, on the contrary, natural
and kind, because it simply removed us from this world to
another of brighter associations, and more congenial to our
spiritual nature. But alas! such was not the belief of the
churches. Death, to the believers in churchianity, was simply
a loathsome monster whose insatiable maw was never appeased.
To the Spiritualist it was simply an inevitable sequence, and
the fulfilment of a purpose in the grand design of the All-wise
Father. It was for them to say which picture they liked best.
Spiritualism robbed death of its sting, and enabled men to
face it with confidence and trust, as a something which landed
them not in endless happiness or endless torment, but in a
state of infinite progression. Spiritualists believed that life
in the future was governed by life here. That was the essence
of all religion—solved all the knotty points of theology—
and gave a complete answer to all who talked of eternal punish¬
ments. The theory of the churches was that man’s moral nature
became changed in a moment. According to them a man
might live ever so bad a life; profane God’s providence as
much as he liked through a long life ; imbrue his hands if he
chose in the blood of his brother man; and then,in the last
hour of his earthly existence, be converted, and pass away to
enjoy the society of the blessed! In other words, the hanging
, of a man might often be the hanging of a saint, thus sending
out of the world what was so much needed in it. If this was
all true, of what value was a consistent, upright, moral life?
Spiritualism did not accept that doctrine. The new system of
religion said, as the foundation is, so shall the superstructure
be. If men wished to realise spiritual elevation, it must
begin in this world; for as their life here was, so would be
the condition of the soul in the world to come. If this doc¬
trine dethroned churchianity, why—churchianity would have to
go. Whatever the issue, let them not stay truth. Men were
in duty bound- to accept that teaching which accorded
best with the highest sense of being. The whole notion of
rewards and punishments was a mistaken one. Was not the
power of God equal to the punishment of his creatures ? Men
sinned hourly, but God never deviated a hair’s breadth from
His established plan, because to do so would be an admission
that the laws He had made were inadequate to the results.
A boy places his finger in the fire and he is burnt; the
mariner neglects to obey the rules of navigation, and his ship
is lost. Were not these vindications of the laws of God ? If
the mariner had obeyed those laws, his ship would not have
been lost. Every violation of God’s laws was followed by
punishment; it might not be to-day or to-morrow, but it would
assuredly come. And as was the nature of the violation, so
would be the duration and character of the punish¬
ment. But the moment the punishment exceeded the
offence it ceased to become punishment, and became
simply vengeance. Spiritualism did not believe in a God
of vengeance, and therefore, did not believe in everlast¬
ing punishment; and it advised its followers to live a pure
and upright life here, so that they might enjoy a high
and exalted spiritual existence hereafter. Was not that
religion ? Spiritualism taught that ultimately the balance of
accounts would be struck, and sufficient atonement having
been made, the soul would be free. God would have, so to
speak, no further lien upon it, because Spiritualists believe
that God is a God of justice, as well as a God of wisdom.
The debt being paid, and the soul free, it would then have a
career of ceaseless activity and infinite progression before it.
There were some who denied this, and they were so anxious
to retain a belief in an eternity of torments that if it were not
uncharitable to indulge the thought, one could hardly help
thinking that they looked forward with savage satisfaction to
the time when they should be able to look over the battle¬
ments of heaven, and see their friends in the bottomless pit
heneath ! Spiritualists did not believe in a resurrection of the
body, but they believe that the same soul a man has in this
world he will have in the spirit world. It might be asked what
Spiritualism taught respecting the existence of God. His reply
was, nothing—absolutely nothing. And in its ignorance on this
point he claimed for it a manifestation of the highest wisdom. It
was only proud, presumptuous minds who pretended to know
anything respecting God; for how could the finite comprehend
the Infinite ? Spiritualism taught that the attributes of God
were wisdom, justice, love, omnipotence, and omnipresence;
but beyond that all was a sealed mystery, incomprehensible
alike now and in the future. Nor did men want to know what
God is. What they wanted to know was what God was doing
in the world, and how they might live in harmony with his
laws and with the great purposes of their being. In conclu¬
sion, the speaker recapitulated the main points of his address,
and contended that religion was not confined to a church, or
bound up in a book. With Spiritualists God was the minister,
and the entirety of life, and the universe their Bible; and such
he believed was the faith of the coming generations.
Another hymn was then sung, and a collection made, after
which the proceedings terminated.
RELIGIOUS REFLECTIONS IN GLASGOW
CATHEDRAL.*
BY COUNT BE MEDINA POMAB.
In the afternoon we went out to see the cathedral. This we
found to be a beautiful old Gothic church, but not of that
elegant and elaborate Gothic style that we admire so much in
the cathedrals of Milan and Burgos, but of the gloomy,
massive, and cold architectural style of the north.
The exterior is sombre and imposing. A tower of some
height rises from its centre, and the whole of the church is
surrounded by a graveyard which used to be the burying-place
of the ancient inhabitants of the diocese. The site that this
old minster occupies adds a great deal to its dull and melan¬
choly aspect. On one side lies the town, but, unfortunately,
the part of it that one sees is the poorest and oldest, and is
more suggestive of decay and misery than of poetry and
architectural beauty.
On the other sides rises the Necropolis, a hill of rather
small dimensions, that to-day serves the purpose qf a cemetery.
This burial ground presents a striking and solemn aspect when
viewed from the steps of the old cathedral. On the highest
part, that rises about 250 feet from the level ground, is situated
the monument of John Enox. This column of granite, straight
and solemn, which seems to pierce the very skies without the
least effort, never bending its proud top, and looking grimly
all the while down upon the church below, struck me as the
most appropriate emblem of the great reformer’s soul.
We went into the cathedral by a side door that admitted us
at once into the great nave. The interior of this church is
cold and dull, and the obscurity and silence that prevail pro¬
duce a disagreeable sensation. The nave was at the time full
of tourists, some with hats on their heads and hands in their
pockets, others looking at the ceiling with their opera glasses,
none seeming in the least to feel that they were in a church.
The effect that a Protestant temple produces on the mind is
always contrary to that caused by a Catholic structure,—that
of solitude and sadness. Conchita, I suppose, felt this too,
for she leant on my arm and came as close to my heart as
possible. I knew that this lonely and damp building dis¬
pleased her, and that her vivid imagination refused this cold
and monotonous form of adoration, for the serious and dark
architecture of the Scotch churches does not touch the human
heart.
“ What a difference there is between this and the Catholic
churches 1” she exclaimed. “ Here they make religion the
dullest and saddest part of man’s life, when it should be, on
the contrary, the happiest and most joyful act of our whole
lives; for in what is there so much pleasure as in talking with
one’s own Father—with one’s own God ? The consequence is,
that real devotion is unknown in this country; it cannot exist;
their mode of adoration cannot inspire them with any holy
passion; it cannot light in their hearts any sacred fire; their
religion is as cold as these bare and dull stones that decorate
their churches. See there, those men with their hats on their
heads, do you think that if they felt themselves in a really
holy place, they would not take them off ? I defy anybody to
go into the Cathedral of Seville without feeling moved by
something holy, by something that tells him that he is in the
presence of his Creator and Judge.”
* Extracted from The Honeymoon, Vol. I- London: Trnbner and Co.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“You are right, Conchita mia,” I answered her, “ the Scotch
form of worship is as cold and dull as their country; but this
arises only from their character. That which for us is the
object of greatest joy, is for them the most serious and solemn
act of their lives.”
Concha looked at me for a few seconds, and then she said
in the full and rich language of Cervantes, “ The Catholic
church is the church of the heart, the other churches are only
churches of the mind, this is their greatest difference. The
Church of God appeals to the conscience, to the senses, and to
the imagination. The Protestant Church appeals only to the
human understanding, that, in most cases, is but too indif¬
ferent or mistaken. The one is based on faith, the other
on ’’
“ Reason,” I suggested.
“ Well,” she continued, “ perhaps, but on human reason,
which may be true or mistaken. In the one, you are sure to
be right, in the other who can tell?”
. “ The Church of Scotland,” I said, “ is admirably adapted
to their physical temperament; it would no more do for the
Latin races than the religion of the latter would do for the
Scotch, and yet they had the same faith not so very long ago,
but I am sure that even then a great difference must have
existed between the two: difference that must have found its
excuse in the distance it was from Rome, and in the diffi¬
culties of communication which, at that time, were so great,
and which have only lately, comparatively speaking, been
removed.”
“ And they call that religion !”
“ Yes, my darling; and it is as true a religion to them as yours
is to you, or the Koran is to the Arabs. They who seem so
cold and passive to you, would not hesitate in condemning
your views, which they would even call atheistic if they did
not agree with their own. They consider everything a sacrilege
that would render their worship pleasanter and easier, and
that would soften and make less terrible their idea of God.”
Conchita gave a sigh and murmured a prayer; “ I pity
them,” she said, and moving on again, we passed into the
inner church.
In this second church is placed the altar, or rather the com¬
munion table, that is just a plain wooden table, and the choir
with the organ. In this place, used to be, in ancient times,
the high altar of the cathedral, radiant with lights, gold and
jewels, before which so many pilgrims and palmers must have
knelt. Behind the altar is the chapel, in former days conse¬
crated to the Holy Virgin, and that has retained, to this day,
the name of Lady Chapel. In this is situated the little stair¬
case conducting to a subterranean church, that used to be
the old baronial crypt, and that after the reformation was
called the Laigh Kirk ; this melancholy and obscure colonnade
was the scene of Rob Roy’s mysterious warning to Francis
Osbaldistone. Sir Walter Scott described it thus :—“ Con¬
ceive an extensive range of low-browed, dark, and twilight
vaults, such as are used for sepulchres in other countries, and
had long been dedicated to the same purpose in this ; a por¬
tion of which was furnished with pews, and used as a church.
The part of the vaults thus occupied, though capable of con¬
taining a congregation of many hundreds, bore a small pro¬
portion to the darker and more extensive caverns which yawned
around what may be termed the inhabited space. In those
waste regions of oblivion, dusky banners and tattered
escutcheons indicated the graves of those who were once,
doubtless, “Princes of Israel.” Inscriptions which could
only be read by the pains-taking antiquary, in language as
obsolete as the act of devotional charity which they implored,
iuvited the passers-by to pray for the souls of those whose
bodies rested beneath.” '
This crypt is to-day deserted; its aspect is perhaps there¬
fore even more grim and mysterious than at the time of Sir
Walter Scott’s description. It is impossible to go through it
without experiencing an inexpressible feeling of sadness and
horror creep over one; there is an atmosphere of death in
those funereal regions, where everything seems to remind us of
the grave, and where every stone bears upon its face the mark
of the remains of a being that cannot but remind us of the
end of our short earthly career.
We went the round of those arches in as short a time as we
could, and climbing up the worn-out steps, we found ourselves
again in the inner church.
The Gothic churches exercise a power over the imagination
that the Greek and Graeco-Roman temples in vain have tried
to equal. It is but too true that the Popes have employed, in
building modern churches, the riches that the devotion
inspired by the Gothic churches had given them. I observed
July 24, 1874.
this to Concha, and I added, “ You must allow that the Gothic
style of architecture is the true Christian style, and that, after
all, the Roman and modern churches always put one in mind
of the pagan temples.”
Conchita, seating herself upon one of the benches of the
choir, while I took my place by her side, said, “ There is
nothing so beautiful and that so much attracts our soul, and
leads it towards prayer, as those old abbeys in which all is
mystic and holy, lighted by the innumerable torches that burn
constantly before the holy images that we worship, and that
represent our earthly lives gradually burning in a flame of love
and prayer that rises towards God in heaven. And those
painted glass windows of our forefathers, through which the
sun shone upon them, as the light of God shone upon their
minds through the teaching of the saints and martyrs painted
upon them. Oh, such a church would be a fitting home for
God, not such a Gothic anachronism as this. Here are the
niches, but where are the saints ? Who has substituted for
the high altar, splendidly laden with shrines and reliquaries,
this plain wood table, on which no longer is placed the real
body of bur Lord? This is indeed a Gothic church, but one
that has long since been abandoned by the Deity and by His
worshippers, and in which only the shadows of the past are
visible.”
“ It is true, Conchita mia, this church seems more adapted
to the dead that lie beneath its vaults, than for the living, who
stare in mute astonishment at the relics of a faith that is not
their own. One sees clearly that it was not built for the wor¬
ship of her present attendants. Even now there is a service
performed in it every Sunday, but it has no relation to the
splended ceremonies once performed beneath those arches,
and for which it had been destined by its founders. The
church is the same, but the religion has changed. Thus
everything belonging to our spirit changes. All that is
immortal must suffer certain changes, without which its pro¬
gress would be impossible, for only what is purely material,
only what time destroys and man can pull down, remains till
the end in its primitive state. How different is the man of
the nineteenth century compared with that man who built this
church as a place in which to worship his God !
Each race has its civilisation and its religion, that when it
passes away, leaves traces of its existence upon the planet, for
nothing is ever lost in the admirable economy of time.
Observe the Pyramids that were built thousands of years ago
in order to commemorate the lives of men whose religion is
totally ignored by us to-day, and yet there we have their
temples and their altars just as they left them.
Each race leaves behind it the foot-prints of its civilisation,
and by those we are able to arrive at the state of their
progress. They are the only proofs that time has consented
to leave us in its destructive and yet creative march through
the centuries.
In a few centuries more perhaps—who knows ?—another
generation, more advanced and more enlightened, may con¬
template these Christian churches, when even the nature of
the divine Master that taught men the religion that
inspired them to build them, may be very differently under¬
stood. For—
*■ God is God from the creation;
Truth alone is man’s salvation.
But the God that now we worship,
Soon shall be our God no more;
For the soul in iis unfolding,
Evermore its thought re-moulding,
Learns more truly in its progress
How to love and to adore.”
* *• * * * *
“ Thus you see that the truth of the present is butthe truth of" the past,
But each phase is greater and grander, and mightier than the last;
That the past is ever prophetic of that which is yet to be,
And that God reveals His glory by slow and distinct degree.”
Conchita sighed, and a tear fell upon my hand. “ I am
sorry, dear Walter,” she said, “ that you should speak so
lightly of the sublime religion to which it is our happiness to
belong. Jesus established His doctrine for all eternity, and
St. Peter built His church, that will last as long as the world.
If the pagan religions of antiquity have disappeared, and
have been forgotton, it is because they were idolatrous,
because they were false. But Christianity has been estab¬
lished by God himself, and therefore it must be an eternal
religion.”
“ I do not want to argue with you, amor mio, if the ancient
religions that you call idolatrous, were false or not, although
I doubt very much that God in his justice would have allowed
false doctrines to be preached and thought among his
children, and, above all, that they should attain such a degree
July 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
of sueceBS that Christianity itself has not yet, in nineteen
centuries, been able to reach, for, without exaggeration, it h
necessary that you should know that the Buddhists, whom
you, of course, believe to be all infidels, condemned to hell,
number even to-day in their decline nearly four hundred
millions—a cypher which the disciples of Christ are very fa»
from reaching—and that the Brahmists, who profess, perhaps,
the oldest existing religion in the world, count amongst theii
followers more than all the Catholics who acknowledge th<-
Pope as sovereign pontifice put together; but one thing 1
swear to you. and that is, that if I could believe God to be
capable of allowing false doctrines to have such a success, and
of sending all men who do not chance to hear of Christianity
to hell, I would doubt of his justice, and even of his
wisdom.”
Do you then believe, Walter, that the Buddhists are right in
believing in Brahm and Buddha, and in denying Christ? ”
“ No, certainly not,” I said, “ but they do what they have
been taught to do, the same as you believe in what the nuns
have told you; they act according to their conscience, and,
therefore, according to God’s laws. If they worship Brahm it
is because they know no better, or rather because they are not
sufficiently advanced to be able to comprehend a more philo¬
sophical doctrine—they believe in Buddha because their
parents and masters believed before them in him, but, in spite
of this, I am sure they will not be condemned for following
the faith of their forefathers. Christians are very easily led
to condemn the Indians and Hindoos, because they do not
give up their faith at once, and adopt theirs, but they are
very long before they can be got to change the least important
of their ideas. Every man must act so as to please himself,
according to his best knowledge, and if his conduct and belief
are such as please his better nature, you may be sure that
they are acceptable to his Creator in heaven ; it is not man’s
fault that God did not make him an angel, and did not place
him in heaven.”
“Gjod is just,” she said, “but cannot allow a false religion
to take the place of the only true one. Your ideas may be
very philosophical, but they are not Catholic. What would
the nuns at Seville say if they could hear you ? Surely they
would think I had married Lucifer himself. Walter ! Walter !
exclaimed the beautiful girl, her eyes full of tears, “ if I did
not love you so much I think I should hate you 1 ”
MR. EPES SARGENT ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Epes Sargent, the well-known American author,
in a letter to Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Upper Nor¬
wood, dated Boston, U.S., June 1st, 1874, says:—
Though I believe that Spiritualism will be scientifi¬
cally established before another half century is at an
end, a good deal of interest will long continue to attach
to the history of our present struggles, and of the
pseudo-scientific antagonism which we have had to
encounter. For this reason I think you would do well
to prepare a volume which you might entitle, “ My
Experiences in Spiritualism,” containing a condensed
account of the facts and experiences which have re¬
sulted in your present convictions. For, in the litera¬
ture of Spiritualism, we want matter that will address
itself to all varieties of minds, and your simple narra¬
tive of facts will, I think, be one of the most effectual
and valuable contributions.
In my proposed work I shall take the facts and the
hypothesis for granted, and show their consistency with
the facts and much of the philosophy of the past; but
I shall address myself to a very limited class, and shall
not expect to make a popular manual of it.
The phenomena of materialisation prove, I think,
the theory Pf Spiritualism; and that theory of course
includes “ Psychic Force” (if you choose so to call it),
as the larger includes the smaller. Admit that a
human being has the power, while here in the flesh, to
send forth a force—an intelligent force—that can clothe
itself almost instantly in a palpable human body, ap¬
propriately dressed; and how unreasonable it is to con¬
tend (especially when we have facts to prove the
contrary) that such an amazing power, manifesting a
corporeity and an informing soul, distinct from the
normal and terrestrial body, is not able to survive the
dissolution of the latter, and manifest itself after- death
as well as before. Serjeant Cox seems to assume that
all of us who believe in spirits are consequently ff super¬
stitious” and “ unscientific.” For he says (page 45 of his
pamphlet, Spiritualism Answered by Science) : “ All
honour to the man who has had the courage to grapple
with it (Psychic Force), and drag it out of the posses¬
sion of superstition into the domain of science.’^ And
who, pray, is the man to whom all this honour is due ?
Do we not all know that this same psychic force,
under the name of odic force, was “ dragged out” as far
back as the year 1849 by my old friend, the late Dr.
E. C. Rogers, who published a book entitled, The
Philosophy of Mysterious Agents, to prove what Mr.
Cox, twenty-three years afterwards, seems to imagine
is his own special discovery and property ?
And what is the meaning of all this assumption as
to the “ superstition” of Spiritualists ? Is it not the glory
of modern Spiritualism that it deals the coup de grace
to all superstition relative to the spirit world ? That
by proving that spirits are not a sort of minor gods,
but fallible beings like ourselves, carrying with them
the characters they formed in this world—and by in¬
vestigating the phenomena in the light of advanced
science—it has removed all danger of our falling into
the errors of the ancients, or of the mediaeval believers
in witchcraft, whose demonphobia led to so many
crimes, perpetrated in the name of theology and law ?
Spiritualism enounces the grand truth that humanity
must look to the facts of God’s universe, to a catholic,
all-embracing science, for its redemption. Therefore,
I do not believe in the theocratic criticisms of Mr. T.
L. Harris—(see the Spiritualist, May 8th, 1874)—who
seems to imagine that the prosecution of a knowledge
of the phenomena of Spiritualism (or Spiritism, as he
calls it) will lead to a worship of spirits, as among the
Chinese. On the contrary, the intelligent study of the
subject, as it is now going on, will lead away from that
very danger, and aid us to arrive at ever higher and
higher conceptions of an ever-certain, but ever-incom¬
prehensible, Unity, as being, at the same time, Ground
and Cause of the Universe, Immanent and Transcendent,
Substance and Mind, Impersonal and Personal, the God
in whom we live and move and have our being, and, at
the same time, our Heavenly Father—thus reconciling,
what now seems hopelessly antagonistic, the Panthe¬
istic and the Theistic idea—Science and Faith.
Modern science, even that which thinks itself ma¬
terialistic, is helping us on to this conception in the
remarkable persistency of its efforts to prove the unity
of forces and phenomena, so that they will be ulti¬
mately resolvable, in the view of science, as they now
are in the view of faith, into a unity—and what can
that unity be but the simple effluence of the' will of
God ? All the facts of Spiritualism, especially those
which prove the power of spirit over matter, or rather,
the nothingness of matter in comparison with spirit,
are tending in the same direction.
The grandeur of Spiritualism is that it is at one with
science—indeed, that it is science—and that every step
which the positive or the inductive sciences can take
will be in perfect harmony with all that Spiritualism
reveals to us of those stupendous agencies which tran¬
scend all that we know of matter and of sense.
Well may Spiritualists hail, therefore, all that Ma-
42
THE SPIKITUALIST.
July 24, 1874.
terialism is doing to probe the secrets of Nature'
Nothing it can. discover can disturb our convictions or
throw a doubt on our facts. The doctrine of evolution
is no more antagonistic than that of immediate creation.
No ingenuity of metaphysics can reason us out of the
knowledge we have attained to. Once convinced that
spirit is, we know that God is, and that he in spite of
all that may seem contradictory and discouraging, is
perfect Wisdom and perfect Love.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT REIN CARNATION.
BY PKINCE WIXIGENSTEIISr.
Mx old friend, M. de Yeh, has been here during my
absence, and left at my house the parting souvenirs of
Xatie King—her rosary, some flowers, some farewell
words written hastily on a bit of paper, and a letter,
obtained by Miss Cook in the way I described in the
last Spiritualist, in answer to one I wrote to her about
six weeks or two months ago. The very strange fact
it touches will, I think, interest you, although, as I
remarked, the English Spiritualists do not believe in
reincarnation—the resurrection of the flesh—as it is
termed in the Bible.
When first I saw Katie, a very extraordinary and
spontaneous sympathy drew us all at once to each
other. I asked my leading spirits about its cause, and
they told me that, some one hundred years ago, we had
intimately met in Turkey, where she was a slave
named Sulme, who died young, of a violent death. In
fact, in my early youth, I often dreamt of a very
savage and rocky country, in which it seemed to me as
if I were at home;, and in travelling many years later
in Turkey, long before I knew anything about Spirit¬
ualism, I perfectly recognised, as if I had seen it long
before, the physical characteristics of the Dobrudja,
her villages, minarets, and mountains. Katie having,
during her materialisation, no second sight whatever,
and being then under the direct influence of Mr. Lux-
moore and Miss Cook, positively denied the fact of rein¬
carnation, thus acting under the unconscious pressure
of their own convictions; only, when I asked her to
remember if we had not met before (I told her nothing
more positive^, she shyly, rather impatiently, told me,
“ No,” as if she feared to divulge a secret; I conse¬
quently left off asking her; but, in the letter mentioned
just now, I tried, without stating anything more posi¬
tive, to rouse her remembrance, in begging her ear¬
nestly to look into her past existence, and to try to
recollect me, in a country far away (of which I de¬
scribed the principal features), asking her, at the same
time, whether the name of Sulme did not awake any
echo in her mind? Hereis the answer I got from her,
through Mr. de Veh:—
“ My dear friend, I would wish very much to see
you before I go. Can you come to me? I cannot
remember anything about a former existence, but
fancy I have known you before. Try to recollect if
we have met. The name you mentioned* seems
familiar to me! why cannot I remember? . . t
Emile, Prince of Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Nieder Walluf, on the Rhine, July 17th, 1874.
Mr. and Mrs. Nayler, late of Milford, Pembrokeshire,
both veteran Spiritualists, celebrated the fiftieth anniversary
of their marriage-day at Stawell, Australia, shortly before the
last mail left there.
* Sulme.
THE SOIREE OF THE 1874 CONFERENCE.
Preparations for the Conference have progressed
considerably during the last fortnight. Arrangements
have been made for holding the soiree at the Beethoven
Rooms,' 27, Harley-street, Cavendish-square, where
many gatherings of Spiritualists have from time to
time been held, under various auspices. On the forth¬
coming occasion these rooms will be peculiarly suitable,
because, as the object of the meeting is to introduce
Country and London Spiritualists to one another, and to
give plenty of opportunity for conversation, there will
be little or no speech-making, and, the suite being
divided into several apartments, friends will be enabled
to converse comfortably, without interfering with the
musical or other performances on the platform.
For those who prefer music and singing, ample
entertainment will be provided, performers of acknow¬
ledged distinction having kindly volunteered their
services.
Tickets for the soiree and for the course of Con¬
ference sessions (the latter for non-members only), can
be had of Miss Emily Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill; of Mrs. Everitt, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-
hill, Hendon ; and of the Editor of the Pioneer of Pro¬
gress, 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn, W.C.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
For a long time past there has been a desire among
many Spiritualists, more especially those residing in
London, for united friendly action, disunion and dis¬
sension being sources of weakness, and co-operation a
tower of strength. The British National Association
of Spiritualists was accordingly formed, and in order
that it might never grow into anything resembling an
ecclesiastical power, it was resolved that the Council
managipg its affairs should be elected by vote by
ballot; further, that every subscriber should not only
have a vote, but the power of recording it without
being put to the inconvenience of attending the annual
meeting, since voting papers will be issued for the
benefit of subscribers residing in the provinces, or who
may from other causes be unable to be present. In
order to still further guarantee that the Association
can never fall under the management of a clique, nor
become a narrow exclusive body, the minimum annual
subscription has been fixed as low as five shillings, so
that poor and rich may have the opportunity of work¬
ing harmoniously together, and the subscriber of the
smallest amount have as much voice in the manage¬
ment of the Association as its wealthiest supporter.
The results of forming an Association on such
fair principles have been eminently successful. Al¬
though it has been formed such a short time, nearly
all the leading workers in the movement in this country
have joined it, and many of them are on the Council,
as will be found on reference to the list of names in
our advertising columns. Few have opposed organisa¬
tion. Mr. Howitt has written against it, with the
result of shaking public confidence in the soundness of
his judgment, and his personal opinions were unduly
dignified by being, in error, specially recognised in a
presidential address. The editor of The Medium is
working by his side against organisation, but as the
said editor once worked in favour of an attempted
national organisation, and read papers at its meetings,
and as he once attempted to get up national conferences,
and to influence them to give money to his bookselling
July 24, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
business when the people were gathered together, as at
Darlington two years ago, his present action against
organisations, friendly co-operation, and conferences is
of little weight. The columns of hard sayings and
unkind words, which these two gentlemen have said
against friendly united action, carry their own refuta¬
tion with them, and as it is not desirable to imitate
such examples of ill-will, we will say no more on the
point.
The National Association is progressing quietly and
prosperously, and now that we have in London a plat¬
form on which all Spiritualists can meet in a friendly
way, there is little doubt as much unanimity will pre¬
vail here, as has generally been the case in provincial
towns in which organisations have flourished.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS.
BY THE BABONESS ADELHA. YAY.
The following experiments were tried recently in the
presence of my mother and sister.
As my mother does notbelieve in spiritual phenomena,
I asked the good spirits to' give her some tests through
my mediumship. Each of the objects she gave me to
hold, for the spirits to trace out its history, I had never
seen before, with the exception of a ring; I did not
know when this ring or any other particular object was
given me to test, since every object was first well
wrapped up by them in paper and handkerchiefs.
I never wish to know what objects I hold. Antiquities
are always better than new things, since the latter have
no stories to tell.
First object.—Bones found in a sarcophagus in
Egypt, bought at an antiquary’s shop in Rome.
Sensation—“ I feel sick, I see the blue sea; it is
splendid. Suffocating heat. I see antiquities, old
Egyptians, and ashes. I feel such great oppression.”
Here I grew pale, so my mother took the object away.
2. —An old French knife, brought by a French
prisoner in 1872 ; he said he had found it in France,
digging in .the earth. Sensation—“ It’s metal. I feel,
a contracting force and a taste of iron in the mouth.
French or Italian peasants are digging; they are
very brown. I see blood. A woman is crying.”
3. —A golden ring of my mother’s, with an amethyst
with an R. carved upon it. Sensation—(i I see an
amethyst and all sorts of precious stones. A Turk,
with a turban sells them. I see an R. A beautiful
country, the sea, trees ; I could draw it. Mamma and
the sisters are joking and laughing.” I so well
described the scenery that my mother and sister
remembered that the day after they had bought the
ring they were merrily joking in the midst of the scene
described, which was near Naples.
4. —A bottle containing medicine, bought by my
mother at Leipsic, in the Lowen-Apotheke; I never
knew of the existence of such a shop at Leipsic, and
had never seen the medicine. Sensation—“ Mamma
holds a bottle in her hand and puts it in her pocket.
It contains medicine. There is something written
upon it. Now I see—it’s ‘ Lowen Apotheke !’ I feel
quite unwell, and am sure it’s medicine.* ”
Adelma Yay.
Gonobitz bei Potschaoh, Austria, July 10,1874.
* If Baroness Vay would minutely describe the conditions under which
she gats these results, what are her sensations, whether she is in a trance
or her eyes are closed at the time, how she knows whether the thoughts of
the persons present about the articles and not the articles themselves are
M. BUGUET’S SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
BY THE COUNTESS OE CAITHNESS.
I experience so much happiness every time I look
at the photographs obtained through the celebrated
French photographer, Monsieur Ed. Buguet, that I feel
bound in gratitude, not only to him, but to the dear
spirit friends who have come to us through his wonderful
mediumship, to make the fact more generally known
through the columns of the Spiritualist, than it can
ever be by merely showing them to friends in my own
drawing-room, which, however, has also been a great
satisfaction, for the spirit likenesses have been recog¬
nised again and again by old friends of my family, who
were personally intimate with the originals.
One lady in Edinburgh to whom I sent copies, and
who had never heard of or seen anything of this won¬
derful phase of Spiritual phenomena, has since written
to me that she could not sleep all night for thinking of
them. Her words are as follows :—“ I recognised every
one; darling Ellen (my sister) is most wonderful, and
your late husband and father not less so. I tossed
about the whole night after seeing them, never slept,
and Percy came to me at four o’clock in the morning,
saying, ‘ 1 cannot sleep for thinking of those photos ;
they are something wonderful! ’ ” I can truly echo the
words, and fully endorse them.
I went with my son, Count de Medina Pomar, both
of us perfect strangers to Monsieur Buguet, found him
as courteous and amiable as Mr. Bums had described
him in the Medium; was introduced into his front
drawing-room in Baker-street, which, I may mention,
for the satisfaction of those who fancy that lay figures
may be concealed, was perfectly devoid of furniture—
an empty room, in fact. There was not even a second
chair for me to sit on whilst my son was having the
first pose, the only chair provided being for the sitter;
this, with the tiniest of all tiny tables, and a long cheval
glass, used for reflection, was all the furniture the room
contained, the walls being perfectly bare.
M. Buguet did not approach us, but stood at the
other end of the room, near his camera, excepting on
two occasions, when 1 asked for a support for my head.
As soon as we yvere ready, each in our turn, he placed
the glasses in the camera, and, turning towards the
wall, buried his face in his hands, as if engaged in
prayer—which, I presume, was the case, as he had
recommended us to raise' a short prayer that our
departed friends might be permitted to come.
I must also mention in this place that a hint had
been given to us by a French friend, a Catholic, to go
to Monsieur Buguet on a Friday, if possible, it being a
fast day. - As I was anxious to obtain the best results
possible, I naturally availed myself of the advice, for it
would have been foolish to neglect any hint of the kind
from one who had also been most successful in his ex¬
periences with the mediumistic photographer.
After a short absence from the room at the close of
every pose, M. Buguet returned, bringing the nega¬
tives for our inspection ; he had an anxious concerned
look on his countenance until rejoiced by our expres¬
sions of delight on several occasions on our recognising,
even on the glass, some dear and well remembered
features, long passed away from our midst. Sometimes
exerting an influence over, her, and why she thinks that spirits have any¬
thing to do with the matter, such details would be of interest. Professor
William Denton, once published a large number of similar experiments, in
which his numerous sensitives traced out what purported to be the
histories of geological specimens,—Ed.
44
THE SPIKITUALIST.
July 24, 1874.
no spirit form whatever was visible on the glass; this
did not of course count, and was not charged for, but
between my son and myself we were successful thirteen
times; and out of the thirteen we distinctly recognised
the spirit forms of five dear ones whom we had never
hoped to see again on earth. One of these, my father,
appears no less than three times, once with my son,
once with me, and once as if floating over us both, and
enveloping us with part of his fluidic drapery. Strange
to say, in order that there may be no doubt about the
identity of the spirit of my late husband, he brings in
his hand the family crest and emblem.
To those who still hesitate to believe, and fail to
comprehend the possibility of communication between
us and our departed relatives and friends, and who, in
order to justify their unbelief, determine in their own
minds that there must be collusion on the part of the
medium—who they presume prepares the appearance
of spirit forms beforehand on his glasses—I will only
point to this extraordinary and beautiful test, and to
these perfect likenesses, recognised by each and every
friend who has seen them, and again bid them re¬
member that we were perfect strangers to the medium,
who had never heard of us before.
I must also mention one other wonderful circumstance,
which may indeed be considered as a perfect test, and that
is the appearance of the spirit of the late Allan Kardec
on one of my cartes—perfectly recognisable by every¬
one. This is most satisfactory to me, in more ways
than one, as it also gives me a proof that he is near,
and approvingly watching over me in the work I have
undertaken, of translating one of his beautiful books,
La Oenese, info English, and in making known his
other works in England and America by publishing
translations of them entirely at my own cost, which I
am uow about to dp.
This likeness of the spirit of Allan Kardec also
affords yet another very good and satisfactory test.
I have formed a large collection of spirit photographs',
commenced last year in America through the aid of
Mr. Mumler, and have now completed the album with
those of Monsieur Buguet. Amongst the latter I have
five others of Allan Kardec—three with his widow,
one with Miss Blackwell, and one with the celebrated
French astronomer and talented author, Monsieur
Camille Elammarion. Allan Kardec’s appearance on
my own carte forms therefore the sixth. I have placed
them all together on one page of the album, and the
test I allude to is most conclusive, for each is per¬
fectly distinct in appearance and position from the'
other, and yet all are excellent likenesses of the great
philosopher.* Maeie Caithness.
Sir Charles Isham’s article on Materialised Spirit Forms
has been copied from The Spiritualist into one of the Leicester
papers.
Me. Foster, the test medium, has left Australia for
America; his visit aroused great public interest in Melbourne,
and during the last week of his visit there it was nearly
impossible to get a seance with him, the applications were so
numerous.
The address of the Rev. J. Murray Spear is now 2210,
Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U. S. A.
The subscription gathered in England by Mr. and Mrs. Tebb
has been a great assistance to him in his old age; he will be
seventy years old next September, and is now strong and in
good health.
* The evidence in this article, coupled with the technical criticism of
the actual photographic manipulations published in Ncv 96 of The Spi¬
ritualist, forms most conclusive testimony in favour of M. Buguet and his
photographs.—Ed,
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. J. J. Morse has issued a large number of litho¬
graphed copies of the following circular to provincial
Spiritualists
All for truth. Truth for all.
July, 1874.
My Dear Friends,—The importance of our movement is
increasing daily. It is rapidly taking its place in contemporary
history as one of the faiths of mankind. The attitude of the
press and of public opinion is more intelligent and respectful
now than ever.
It is intended to hold a conference of Spiritualists again this
year, the place of meeting being Lawson’s Rooms, 145, Gower-
street, London, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, August
4th, 5th, apd 6th, as per accompanying programme.* The
arrangements are under the auspices of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, and as it will be a truly national
and representative gathering I would strongly advise you to
make an effort to be present, in the interest of our common
cause, on the occasion referred to ; or, failing that, to use
your influence on behalf of the objects of the conference, and
to render us all the aid you can to make it a success. Hoping
for your practical assistance, I am, yours very truly,
J. J. Morse,
Provincial Secretary to the Conference Committee,
10, Dunkeld-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
aromspontience.
[Greqt freedom if given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its re&ders.]
THE DOCTIHE OF REINCARNATION,
Sir,—You have given in a recent number of your journal a
somewhat lengthy account of the history of Allen Kardec,
which Lady Caithness had contributed at your request, and
which may be taken, I presume, as an avant courier of the
forthcoming edition of Kardec’s works, which my friend, Miss
Anna Blackwell, is editing and translating from the French
for the enlightenment of English Spiritualists.
I honour Lady Caithness for her boldness in daring to brave
the opinions of her aristocratic circle of acquaintance by pro¬
claiming the truth of Spiritualism. The sincerity she evinces,
too, in publishing these works at her own cost, as I understand
she intends to do, is a proof of her earnestness in promulga¬
ting Spiritualism, and especially what she believes to be a higher
philosophy than we in England have yet realised, and for
this unworldly devotion to the dissemination of a great truth,
she is entitled to our highest regard.
I have, however, never been able to appreciate nor to pro¬
perly comprehend the special doctrines taught by the late
M. Kardec, which embraced primarily the belief in reincarna¬
tion.
They are almost universally accepted in France and other
parts of the continent of Europe, whilst in America, where
modern Spiritualism, had its rise, and in England the believers,
as compared with the thousands who have adopted the French
philosophy, count up by millions. I take it for granted that
the disciples of both schools agree in the following fundamental
principles:—
1. Thqt Spiritualism meets at once and overcomes the wide¬
spread infidelity of the present age, and it gives to the doubter
evidence that mortals at the change called death live on.
2. That this new state of life is one of progression, and
that the worst man living may attain happiness hereafter.
3. That our Father in heaven is a God of love and mercy,
and not a God of wrath and vengeance.
4. That this body of ours is but the outer covering of the
spirit within, which is the man.
5. That this spirit-man can and does, under certain con¬
ditions, hold communion with men in the flesh.
6. That Spiritualism and its teachings (including the earliest
forms in which it presents itself) lie at the very foundation
of all knowledge, and that no man’s education can be complete
without them.
These and some others of lesser moment, I believe, are the
axioms approved alike by the “ Spiritists ” of France, and the
“ Spiritualists ” of England and America.
But those of the French school make it a point of essential
doctrine that we of this earth have sprung from the lowest
* See advertisement.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
July 24, 1874.
forma of animal creation, and to attain perfection in our pro¬
bationary course through this or some other planet, extending
it may be through myriads of years, we, to expiate our past
errors make our reappearance on this or some other habita¬
tion of men, in some other body commencing with a new
birth, over and over again.
Now this always appeared to me a very startling doctrine,
repugnant alike to our reason, our affections, and our
cherished hopes of the future.
The reincarnationists, I believe, hold too, that spirits of a
certain degree of advancement, frequently accept incarnations.
Spirits we are told do this, and other spirits do that, and
when I reatd of what they do and what they do not do, the
question constantly arises in my mind—How do you know it ?
What proofs have you ? Are these statements deduced from
theory only ?
Of course, if the doctrines admit of proof, however dis¬
tasteful they may be to our educated prejudices, we should be
forced to accept them as reconcileable to divine law. But if
they are merely theoretical, however grand the philosophy
may be upon which they are based, it is open to us who have
received our education as Spiritualists in another school to
show that these doctrines are not in accord with our reason,
and certainly not apparently conducive to our future hap¬
piness.
But I am nevertheless bound to believe that a philosophy
which makes reincarnation a necessary condition of life now
and hereafter, and which finds acceptance with thousands of
our neighbours, and is prominently advocated by two en¬
lightened Englishwomen, one of whom gives her money and
the other her labour and her talents, which I know are of no
common order, without fee or reward too, must have much to
say in support of their views and their utterances are entitled
to our most respectful consideration.
As you, sir, are about to open your columns, I presume, in
due time to a discussion of the Kardecian theory, I have
thought it would not be objectionable to you and your readers
to allow me to anticipate the forthcoming volumes by point¬
ing attention to an article written by me some years ago in
Ths Spiritual Magazine (1867, p. 68), in which I asked my
readers to consider whether the mysterious power of the
I double fi of living persons appearing in distant places (a
well-ascertained and admitted fact) may not satisfactorily
account for the recollection by men of scenes in which they
were not conscious they had ever been before. I cited an
instance of a gentleman whilst waiting in the outer room of
a lawyer’s office, who seemed to know all about the premises
though he was sure he had never been there in his life, and
on stepping into the inner room he recognised an old en¬
graving which hung over the fireplace, on the back of which
he recollected to have read its history, and he at once repeated
it to the lawyer, who took down the frame, and his impression
was corroborated. This gentleman had no theory to offer; it
remained ever after a profound mystery on his mind.
Many such facts have, I believe, been recorded by M.
Kardec and his followers, but to my mind the “ double ” of a
living person is a much more satisfactory explanation of such
mysterious occurrences than to claim them as proofs of re¬
incarnation.
However, we shall doubtless have in due time Miss Black¬
well’s answers to all objections which have been and will yet
be made to the doctrine which she has adopted and made her
own. But as I do not suppose that I shall be required to
take part in any future discussion upon this important sub¬
ject, seeing that Spiritualism is pow upheld by many fresh
and vigorous minds, freed from the trammels of early educa¬
tion and first impressions as mine has been, I will only venture
to impress upon my good friend Miss Blackwell the necessity
of putting her arguments in language so plain and under¬
standable to the English reader that no one will in future
avoid them, as I know they have hitherto done, on the plea
that they failed to comprehend her meaning, or the special
Spiritist terms so familiar to the French, but which fail to
impress the minds of plainly-educated English Spiritualists.
Benjamin Coleman.
Upper Norwood, July 11th, 1874.
IUEXHEE COMMUNICATIONS PROM THE SPIRIT CALLING
HIMSELE AN EGYPTIAN. *
Sir,—A day or two since Thoth came to me again, and
gave me further information concerning himself. It was as if
his voice spoke it, whilst I rapidly wrote ; but except that a
feeling of sickening sadness came over me at times, and that
I saw the blue ibis, I had no other intimation of the presence
of the spirit. Perhaps I was not in a condition to bear it, or
he was not permitted to approach nearer.
% “ I have returned to communicate with you again. I am
brought for the purpose of doing good. If I depict the
honible consequences of a life of evil, it will awaken reflections
in the minds of men which will be of service to them.
“ Never in all my existence since I can remember, did I feel
an emotion of love. Perchance as a babe fin answer to your
thought) on my mother’s bosom, I may have felt some love ;
but I remember no further back than a time when I began to
exercise power, which befell me at an early age, for my father
had slaves over whom I was permitted to domineer. From
my infancy I commanded obedient slaves, who were given
into my hands to torture, if 1 was so minded, for my amuse¬
ment. So that I grew up fed upon the love of power and
hatred, and was a monster in my childhood. As a man I
knew no pity, no compassion, ho regret; only lust, desire,
passion. To heap up about me sensual pleasures and gratifica¬
tions, to satisfy my lust for dominion, was my only object.
Love I had none for any object or being. I only hated,—
and those who were more powerful than I, were only hated
with a greater intensity. I did not believe in the gods of the
Egyptians. I could see through the subtleties and duplicities
of the priests and magicians. 1 practised sorcery myself, and
the spirits I drew about me in the exercise of the arts of
magic, gave me more power. I both saw and heard spirits;
they came at my call and obeyed my behests, and I learned
that even over them my dominant mind could reign. But
there were limits to this. I learned that there were minds in
that world of theirs, over which I could hold no sway, and
this enraged me. I was made whilst still in the flesh to feel
their power, and I learned at length to avoid offending them;
but it was merely bending before a might greater than my own.
“ When I entered this world I sought again only to exercise
power, and leagued myself with those who ravaged the earth
to subject men to themselves. I hated goodness, pnrity,
innocence, and sought to destroy it wherever I found it,
merely because it was in opposition to me. At times I was
hurled down by a power I could not resist, and held enchained
as it were in dark, drear abodes, where, with others like
myself, we raved and fought, each one striving to get the
supreme place. Duly when the most powerful reigned was
there anything like peace. At these times voices of gentle
music would be heard, chanting the praises of the supreme
Being. This affected us in various ways. Sometimes the
hearts of the least violent would be softened, and then dis¬
appeared from our midst, how, when, or where, we knew not,
nor cared. Our torments at these times were various. Some¬
times looking up we beheld glorious forms looking down at us
with compassion, and a voice would be heard exhorting us to
turn in worship to one they called God. This enraged many
of us still more, and we resisted with scornful laughter, with
blasphemies.
“ After a period our sufferings would be mitigated, and we
found our way to earth again ; but the remembrance of our
torments remained with us, and things which we had done
before we did no longer. After each incarnation in these
drear abodes there was a slight mitigation of evil work; but
where the nature is very hardened, reformation of any kind is
of slower growth, and for every act of evil recommitted, tor¬
ments were sure to be the consequence. There are natures so
dark they are very seldom let out of hell. When they are it
is for some object of mercy in connection with their own
state, for the hells are under the government of angels of the
highest wisdom and glory, who dispense the mercies of the
Most High. God never forgets any; all receive what is essen¬
tial to their spiritual life, and those who have wilfully per¬
verted the stream of life from Him, and deformed their own
souls, are led mercifully out of the foul pits of their own
seeking at last. The pure, health-giving air of heaven, the
loving influence of the angels, which is an embodiment, as it
were, of the breath of God, is permitted to reach even the
souls of the damned. Hence even the most wretched perverts
are permitted to leave their hells at times in the merciful
furtherance of their ultimate restoration to a state of spiritual
health and harmony.
1 Whilst you write these words of instruction and wisdom
concerning the other life, I am assisted in the dictation by a
radiant spirit standing at yobr left. His gleaming robes are
as if wrought of threads of gold, woven into a.rich pattern of
flowers and tendrils; his hair falls upon his shoulders in
golden ringlets ; his face, calm and noble, sends forth a
radiance also, so that his very presence is a shining light.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 24, 1874.
Such are the sons of God. I, the poor Egyptian, who never
worshipped anything until now, am dark, dark. I feel my
own darkness. It eats into my very soul. It is gathered
about me in tangible atmospheres, more thick and oppressive
than your earth-fogs. I know this is the outward expression
of my spiritual state. You are protected from it; Wrapped
in my clouds I am invisible to you. I know you could not
endure the sight of me, and this is now a pain to me. When
you saw me on a former occasion, I was wearing the form I
generally assumed upon earth, concealing my real deformity.
We have the power in the spirit world of assuming deceitful
appearances, by which the weak, ignorant, and unwary are the
more easily lured to evil.
“ The radiant spirit at your side sheds a comforting light
upon me. I breathe freer from his presence. To be permitted
to approach you, and give you these words for the instruction
and uplifting of that human race I have always hated and
wished to destroy, that is, to make them demons like myself;
to be permitted to do this is like being uplifted for a time into
heaven. I am in a state of comparative ‘happiness—the hap¬
piness of welldoing. From the proud, overbearing, cruel,
hating spirit, I have become humble, grateful, anxious to
serve; and look up with a yearning reverence to all that is
high and godlike, and open my soul to receive of the love of
heaven. I have to go below, however, to contend with the
evil; to mingle with those who are hateful, deformed, repul¬
sive. Looking upon their hideousness—knowing it fully—my
soul sickens, because it has tasted a little of good. A light
from heaven pierces my soul, and I see the why and the
wherefore in the past lives of those I am with for the time of
all their hideousness. I reason with them; I teach them ; I
exhort them. They turn and rend me in their hatred, and
eject upon me vilest of effluvia. I suffer ; and read within
myself lessons from my own past. Remorse assails me. I
weep—as you heard but now—and my soul, heavy laden, can
scarce perceive one ray of comfort. But there are states of
remission from pain, and I repose in some higher place,
gaining more wisdom, purity, and strength from God’s minis¬
ters of grace, to fit me for more struggles with the damned.
Such must be my life in the spirit for some ages, for the
whole man must be re-made: good can only be gained by
working for it.
“ I am now made to see the mind God gave me—one of great
power. Had I lived for good, I might have been one of the
earth’s Saviours ; but I perverted my high gifts and became a
devil. It was not easy to win me, because of my undaunted
fearlessness, boldness, and audacity—my perfect self-sufficiency.
I was sufficient unto myself, and believed in myself only. I
could not be made to believe there was a God. Any power
greater than my own enraged and filled me full of bitterest
hate. Consequently I was surrounded by a wall as of adamant
against the divine mercy,—the wall of my own self-sufficient
strength and power. But God was greater than I, His love
untiring. The greater the enemy, the more earnest the en¬
deavour to save. By many subtle processes, concealed from
me by the gross darkness of my own selfhood, He has through
these long ages of my opposition, gradually worked upon me.
I thought it was myself, but I now see it was His spirit work¬
ing in healing love and mercy upon me. The last act was to
bring me to you. When I read in your heart that tenderness
of love for a human being, merely because I was a human
being,—when I saw you loved me, and saw it was inspired by
a higher nature watching over you, or that you would instinct¬
ively have shrunk from me,—it awakened within me an in¬
tense hatred and loathing of myself. Seeing the beauty of
love, and that spiritual loveliness surrounding your guides,
who, in company with other bright spirits were gathered
tenderly about you, I saw myself a hideous monster burthen-
ing the face of nature. Then for love’s sake I bent at your
feet—the one I dared more nearly to approach—and renounced
myself. The wall of adamant crumbled to dust before the
breath of God, leaving only the dark shadow of itself as a
Nemesis, until by repentance I cleanse myself of myself, and
pass through the joy of a new birth.
“ You ask me of my former life on earth, of the ancient
people so long past away. I can better tell you of those ages
hence when I return more fully into those states which
marked my existence then. I have lived out of that old time.
I could better tell you of a time nearer at hand, and of the
part I have played lately in the world’s history. I have been
the instigator of many foul crimes, murders, and deeds too
horrible to mention. But your soul draws back horrified, I
am warned to say no more.
. ‘‘ Heed, kind one, whilst I paint a scene of the old past to
remove all unpleasant impressions from your gentle mind: a
reminiscence which flashes brightly out from the shadows
gathered over that long night, as a dream or vision may start
forth upon the mind which has laboured with nightmare
during the hours of sleep. It may interest you.
“In one of our ancient temples devoted to the worship of
Isis, a priestess (whom in these days you would call a medium)
was kept in sacred seclusion, that the unseen powers might
pronounce their oracles through her lips. No man’s eye but
those of the old priests might look upon her. Her food was
fruits, milk, honey and bread. She had her female attendants
and companions; other women who served in the temple.
But the fame of her beauty got abroad and reached my ears.
I determined I would rob the temple of its treasure. I cared
not for Isis. I knew she was a myth, the indication of times
and seasons; the representer to the people of the knowledge
possessed by the priests, much of which had been handed
down from the earliest periods of the existence of man. I
cared not for any power. I knew I could buy the favour of
the priests, but as the prophetess was a treasure they would
not easily consent to part with, I determined I would possess
myself of her by stratagem. I bribed one of the female
attendants to introduce me on a certain night into the private
gardens within the enclosures of the temple. In those old
days we took care to surround our priestesses, or mediums,
with all that could soothe, elevate, or inspire the mind;
flowers, beautiful trees, fountains, birds, and innocent child¬
ren were to be found in the gardens of the temples, from
which the sounds of cheerful laughter and music could be
constantly heard. Here, whiling away the time in any light
occupation, or in teaching the children, the priestesses passed
their time, except when engaged in the duties of their calling.
Spirits of great power watched over these temples, and
directed the government of the country as far as it was, allowed
by the king, who frequently perversely sought to sway the
very oracles themselves. There were times when the
priestesses staid in the trance for days. I had information
that Isha (as I will call her) was in one of these long trances,
and my intention was to carry her forth in her unconscious
state to my own palace, for I was a rich and powerful noble.
The woman whom I had bribed led me quietly at midnight to
Isha’s chamber, where, like a beautiful statue robed in white,
she lay upon a couch. A single lamp burned at the foot of
the couch, and lying there as still as a corpse, she looked as if
ready to be transported to a higher world. All was quiet as
death; only the fountain waters could be heard leaping and
dashing into their flower-crowned basins. The guards of the
temple slumbered at a distance, feeling sure that all was
secure. The full moon overhead, at times hidden behind
clouds, at others beaming brightly forth, cast deceptive
shadows, favouring concealment and robbery.
“ A sense of awe fell upon me when I stood within the door
of the chamber, looking at the beautiful white-robed figure.
For an instant a cold shiver ran through my frame, and I
stood motionless: but the demon of desire rose in my heart,
and I approached the couch, intending to bear Isha away to
the litter I had in waiting. As I approached her a convulsive
thrill ran through her frame, and instantaneously a flash of
light struck me to the ground, whilst a loud, stern voice for¬
bade my approach, and Isha herself floated up into the air, as
if borne by invisible arms, above my head. Thevwoman who
had come in with me shrieked, and in a few minutes guards
and priests rushed in and, surrounding us, hurried us out of
the sacred presence. For a moment or two I felt benumbed
all through my frame, as if lightning had struck me ; but my
mind retained its audacious fearlessness, and I attributed the
whole occurrence to the sorcery of the priests. They indig¬
nantly demanded who I was, and how I had dared to desecrate
the temple. I defied them, and, proudly showing them a
badge I wore, threatened them with the vengeance of the king
if they did not suffer me to depart. Scowling with baffled
rage, they summoned attendants to lead me forth, and I left
them questioning the woman I had bribed, whom no doubt
they tortured afterwards.
“ I walked out through the beautiful gardens under the
brilliant moon, then completely unclouded, into the air loaded
with the perfume of flowers, the rage of baffled power swelling
my heart, and struck down one of my litter-bearers, leaving
him senseless, whilst I leapt into the litter to be borne away.
But the vision of pure Isha lying there in her beauty has never
died from my memory, and has appeared again and again, like
a white stone washed up in the dark waves of a turbid stream,
making you wonder so clean a thing could exist there. I think
now, as the lovely vision appears to me again, and I have
THE SPIKITUALIST.
47
July 24, 1874.
dwelt upon it with a new pleasure, instead of shutting it away
angrily in some dark mental cavern as I have been wont to do,
I think that this has been one of God’s secret ways of dealing
with me too ; that He has kept this memory green and fresh
in the carrying out of some merciful purpose in my existence.
These things are not accidents, and though we may think to
escape His eye, it is not so; the whole complicated web of
existence is known to Him, and remedies applied where need¬
ful. Praised be His name!
I To come into the presence of your guides is to breathe
wisdom and love, if I may so term it; it comes into my soul as
the breath of life ; hence I express sentiments which astonish
you as coming from me. Thus am I blessed, taught, and
strengthened by coming to you. Such may be the work of
mediums at this day, and such it should be. Farewell 1 when
Soiros sees that good can be done, he will call me again, and
I will come. Wrapped in my clouds, I sink from your sight
to go to my other work, a happier and better spirit.”
Cathekine Woodfoede.
41, Bernard-street, Bussell-square, W.O.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Sib,—I have too much respect for Mr. Howitt, and for the
cause which I am honoured by serving, to enter into a long
controversy on the subject of his letter published in the last
number of the Christian Spiritualist. I could not do so without
giving an “eye for an eye,” a “tooth for a tooth,” perhaps
even a claw for a claw, which true Christianity forbids.
But I would respectfully remind Mr. Howitt and his follow¬
ers that they are not acting in the spirit of common justice,
nor even of common courtesy, in thus virulently attacking a
body of honourable men and women, brethren in the same
faith, who have never taken up arms, either on the offensive
or the defensive (notwithstanding numerous provocations
thereto), and who are actuated in their mode of working by
motives at least as pure and disinterested as any they are
willing to impute to Mr. Howitt and his friends, with all the
mistaken zeal of these gentlemen against the cause of co¬
operation.
It would be absurd to pretend that all truth is in the
Association, any more than it is all in William Howitt or
Enmore Jones. But fair play we have a right to expect from
Englishmen, to say nothing of Spiritualists, more especially
from those who, claiming for themselves the distinctive title
of “ Christian,” are bound to set the example of a higher
morality, and to exercise a little of that charity which
“ hopeth all things, endureth all things, is not puffed up,
thinketh no evil.”
The members of the ” British National,” who have chosen
to join the Association because they believe in co-operation,
and in the safety of publicity (no very singular belief in these
days of trades’ unions and press reports), have every right to
be treated with respect, and I beg to enter this feeble protest
against the conduct of those who, in their excess of
zeal, have forgotten what is due to men acting honour¬
ably and in good faith, however they may differ from some
others on a question of political economy and perhaps,
as late events would tend to show, on some points of social
morality. All history goes to prove that nothing strengthens
the determination of a party like persecution; if, therefore,
Mr. Enmore Jones hopes to succeed in founding a truer
1 National Association ” than that based on the public vote of
the majority, he must first desist from personal invective, and
then show good reason for supposing that those gentlemen
whom he has named as his friends and likely coadjutors
would be more sure of producing good results than the Asso¬
ciation at present constituted. Emil? Kislingbup.y.
93, Olarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
A SAND GATE CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM:.
Sir,—My attention has been called to an article in The
Spiritualist of last week, upon a sermon preached by a valued
friend of mine, on the preceding Sunday, in Holy Trinity
Church, Folkestone.
The stand-points of the preacher and the writer are so far
apart that it was inevitable that the latter should dislike the
sermon; and, but for one thing, I should not have gone out of
the usual course to trouble you with this letter.
It was complained that the preacher characterised Spirit¬
ualists as “fanatics.”
Though not, of course, responsible for every incidental
remark made by others in my pulpit, I should regret that
anything offensive in form to the Spiritualists should proceed
from it, as I feel indebted to several of them for facilities
kindly afforded me for examining the alleged phenomena
several years ago. I am glad therefore to take this opportunity
of informing you that, having mentioned the matter to my
friend, he tells me that he did not refer to the Spiritualists at
all, and did not even think of them. At the same time, I am
not at all surprised that, owing to the way in which the passing
remark was worded, your correspondent should have attributed
to it a scope not contemplated by the speaker.
I congratulate myself that this incident has brought under
my notice the judicial (and, sir, bona tua venia dixcrim,
judicious) letter of Serjeant Cox, also printed in, your last
number. The only sermon I ever preached myself upon
Spiritualism was preached two years ago (it appeared in The
Spiritualist oi October 15,1872), and having as yet seen no
reason to alter the view therein expressed as to the inadequacy
of the evidence, it is a satisfaction to me to find that view so
ably supported by one who has given much more time to the
subject, and brought to its study a practised legal mind.
Chaeles J. Taylor, Vicar of Holy Trinity, Folkestone.
Trinity Yioarage, Folkestone, July 14th, 1874.
THE DIVINING ROD.
Sib,—Thank you for inserting my letter in your yesterday’s
paper, which, en passant, allow me to say, is full of most in¬
teresting matter to us who live so far north of your great city.
As you ask in your foot-note, I will endeavour to give you
our mode of proceeding. We lay down on the table a largely
written alphabet, with some figures under, also a few small
words, such as “ Yes,” “ No,” which some of the controls will
use instead of spelling. 1 enclose a copy of such a paper as
we use; a printed one perhaps would be plainer. Two persons
then take an ordinary walking-stick, without an iron ferrule
we think best, and stand or sit on a conveniently high seat,
one on each side of the rod, poising it on the fleshy parts of
the finger ends, and steadying it with the ends of the thumbs,
the hands of each holder being placed alternately. The
fingers seem to act as some kind of conductor of the aura, or
whatever it is, from the holders. We think a lady and gentle¬
man, or two children qf opposite sexes, the best; however,
this does not seem to be an unvarying rule; it also appears to
us that one or both of the holders are, what we Spiritualists
call, mediumistic, more or less. Hold the bottom of the
stick, or rod, over the alphabet, keeping the mind as passive
as possible, and the eyes of the most mediumistic person
directed to this end of the rod : as the outside influence, what¬
ever it is, seems to first act upon the brain or organisation of
such holder, in fact I have known cases of such a person pass¬
ing into a kind of trance state. Some of your spiritualistic
friends we think would find the rod work almost instantly.
A third sitter could write down the questions and answers, or
other communications, as we do. I know mental questions of
the third sitter have been answered, or questions silently
written, but the controlling powers say it is best to put them
viva voce, as they can answer quicker.
I can only repeat my former admonition not to use this
power in a spirit of levity, as a mere pastime, if you want
good results. In conclusion, I will give you another beautiful
prayer, which my friend has, given me to send you. Three
persons only were present when it was given on Sunday even¬
ing, June 21. Psalm xiv. was first ordered to be read, and the
hymn “ Thy will be done ” sung:—
“ God, our Father, Who dost cause the sun to shine that the
whole universe may be glad and rejoice in its warmth and
light, do Thou bestow on us the light of Thy wisdom to enable
us to see and know Thee. May we always feel that Thou
seest all we do, and knowest all our thoughts, and that Thou
art Infinite and Supreme ; the God of Gods, and the King of
Kings. Thou art holy, and we poor mortals are unholy. Thou
art wise, and we are foolish. Thou art strong, and we are
weak. Do Thou, therefore, give us part of Thy strength to
enable us to work for Thee. Thou art the fountain of love,
therefore give us part of Thy love to enable us to come very
near to Thee. Be with us at all times, and enable us to work
for Thee. Bless us, and be always with us. Amen.”
If you can afford a little more space, I will add a very
short, but very good homily, as subsequently given the same
evening :—
“ Time flies every day. Every hour, every moment, you
have so much less time to live, so much shorter time to prepare
for your future life. How are you making yourselves ready ?
Are you aware it is your duty to make such use of the faculties
God has given you, that, when you leave earth, you can urnret
48
THE SPIKITUALIST.
JtiLY 24, I8t4.
them to God pure and improved. Think and study this
little piece of advice. Good night.”
Now I must stop short for the present, but shall be most
happy to give you copies of many such good communications,
also to give you further information as the mode of using the
rod if required, but that I think will not be needed.
W. R. Thobnton.
Barrow-on-Furness, 18th July, 1873.
ARCANUM ARCANORUM.
TRA.lTSiA.TED BT BARBARA HONYWOOD.
In the Italian, Annalli dello Spiritismo, there is a curious
account of a test given through a writing medium, as
follows:—
A writing medium, Mr. A. P., was asked by a Mr. L. Li, a
friend of mine, to lend him a book on evocations, written by
himself, no subject in particular being specified. He was also
asked to give him a seance. Mr. A. P., who had not exercised
his mediumship for some time, kindly acceded, and came to
my house. Mr. L. L. brought a friend — a stranger to us,
and we sat down, four in number, at the table. Mr. L. L. was
requested not to name the subject of his questions, but to
write them privately. To this he agreed, and, without further
arrangement, the medium prepared to write.
After brief meditation, the medium wrote with extraordinary
rapidity:—
il How is it possible to believe all that was written solely to
excite human passions? You wish for an explanation of a
writing that you consider likely to advance your material rather
than your spiritual interests. You seek the explanation of a
cabalistic evocation, hoping thereby to gain a mundane advan¬
tage. It is not for such purposes the spirits come to you, there¬
fore we cannot reply. Adieu ! ”
The medium, without reading over what he had written,
said that the reply appeared to him vague and trifling ; but
Mr. L. L. and his friend, after reading the writing, begged to
continue the questions.
Q. Why do you decline to reply ?
A. Because you wish to obtain a material advantage by a
spiritual explanation of the mystery, and this is not our vocation.
Q. But if so doing we used our gains to benefit others, would
it be wrong ?
A. Loving to do good, you can give alms.
Q. But if one’s means are not sufficient, how can one give
in charity ?
A. I have warned you, that that which is written is not truth.
It is the dream of a heated brain. It is not the first time that
men have sought to discover the philosopher's stone, and lucky
numbers in the lottery, till they have upset their reason, therefore
it is better not to think of this writing.
Q. Are you the spirit that I invoked mentally ?
A. No.
Q. Do you know the spirit I invoked ?
A. You invoked the spirit who you believed Wrote that com¬
munication, of which you Want the explanation. Adieu.
More and more surprised, Mr. L. and his friend begged for
further communication:—
A. I have told you, and again repeat it, that that writing is
full of follies. Read it, and then you will see I am right. It
promises fortune to him who can interpret it. It is false.
Q. What does the writing contain ?
A. I will tell you; this writing is very soiled, 1 believe it to be
the vague ideas of an old astrologer; you know that in many
persons there exists a mania to guess lucky numbers and
to predict the future; it is fo ly, do not believe in these things.
They are only answered by deceiving, mischievous spirits, that
wish to profit by the weakness of others; tell the married lady
who gave it you not to think of it.
Signor L. and his friend acknowledged the writing had been
given to them by a lady, who attached great faith to the
evocation, and added that the lady and her husband were
waiting to hear an account of the seance.
Mr. L. showed the writing that he had received, and this is
the tenor of it: “The spirit who composed that book is en¬
treated to explain the manner in which to apply and use the
harmonial and sympathetical tables.”
The reply from the first to the last word could not have
been more fitting, more dignified, more moral.
I asked if I might see the writing in question, to verify that
it contained such folly. Mr. L. broke the seal, and stated
that it came from a convent. It was a little packet of several
pages, very dirty, as the spirit said, from having been read
and re-read and studied. On the first page was written
Arcanum Arcanorum,
Ristretto dello scientiflco operare
Sbpra le rove tadoie
Simpattiche (sic), armoniche, mattemaHiche (sic),
Con sua proporridue novenale quadrata
Opera d**)!’ Autor.e Felice . . . (sic)
Roma I’annO M uCCLXX.
The meaning of which we gather to be :—
THE SECRET OF SECRETS.
am abridgment; of the scientific work upon the nine tables.
Sympathetic, Harmonious, and Mathematical. Quadrated with their
ninefold proportions.
The Work of the Author Felice.
Rome: 1770.
The title is sufficient to show us the judiciousness of the
reply given by the spirit: and the pamphlet was only a col¬
lection of cabale to gain at the lottery, a favourite occupation
of the Romans, and of many friars, who thus wile away their
leisure hours in the idle and fatal passion of this debasing
game, which should be put down in a country calling itself
civilised, although it is a large source of gain to the govern¬
ment. The date at the beginning showed it to be a manu¬
script copy of some trashy pamphlet full of stupid superstitions,
that are to be found in old libraries. Falling into the hands
of persons little practised in this style of Writing, they
become confused with the wilderness of rules and cyphers
in various colours that it contains, and stimulated by the
hope of gaining a knowledge beyond that of others. At the
head of one page were these words,—ad proximorum wili-
tatem, which corresponds to the second question to which
the spirit replied,—“If you love to do good, be charitable.”
The owner of the MS. had already interrogated the spirit
of the author of Felice through other mediums, but had
received no response, until it was permitted through our
medium to obtain a clear proof of spirit presence, and of
their influence on the medium, also of their loving assis¬
tance when sought in a right frame of mind and intention.
Felice Schifoni.
Rome, February 11th, 1874.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, of Brighton, has been elected
a member of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
j. D. M., Edinburgh.—Too late for this week. Shall be published
in our next. All letters intended for insertion in each forthcoming
number, should reach the office by Monday or Tuesday, the
editor being now much absent from London.
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calami'ies.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
atiy particular person a (theor.-tically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
OR TO
MR. THOMAS BLVTON, AG^NT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
, ■ ; LONDON, E. '
MRS. TAPPAN’S ENGAGEMENTS.
DARLINGTON, Central Hall, July 24.
NEWCASTLE, L cture Rooms, Nelson-street, „ 21, 22, and 23.
STOOKTON-ON TEES, Borough Hall, ,, 27 and 28.
GRIMSBOROUGH. Priory Hall, 30 and 31.
LEEDS. Musi : Hall, Albion-street, Aug 4 5, and 6.
Letters for Mrs. Tappan may be addressed to her, to the care bf Messrs
Hinde Brothers, Eastbourne, Darlington, Yorkshire.
MISS ANNIE _EYA— FAY, the indescribable phe-
nomenon, from Americti, will give her extraordinary Light and Dark
Seances, at the Queen’s Concert Booms, Hanover square, every evening,
until Saturday, July 25th at lialf-past 8 o’clock. Plan and tickets with Mr.
Hall, at the rooms. Tickets can he obtained of Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Alfred
Hays, Mr. Bubb, Mr. OHivier, Messrs. Keith and Prowse, Messrs. Laconand
Ollier, and all agents. First r« w, leserved stalls 7s. 6d.; other reserved
stalls. 5s.; second-class 3s.; a dmission, 2s.
Recently published, in Crown 8yo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Oo., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Fodo, price 3s. 61., First Series.
IT1AC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
JD and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence,
dited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
July 24, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.) ,
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa. H Idei ’s-hill. Hendon. N.W.
Pi z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-sfreet, Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Bill-side, Streat-ham.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, H. V., M.B.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Bam say, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, W.
Boss-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Kensingston-
park, W. '
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-roaii, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Kichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown, Jambs, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Eev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-ehambers. Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Bichard. 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixtpn, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeinan, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Bobert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, t!,.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent. Westboume-square, W.
Humphries. H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-st. eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior Ubited Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater. W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel. J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, Bing’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-Mll, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, 0. W., F.S.S, 14. Burnley-road, Stoekwell, S.W.
Eogers, E. Dawson, 29 Daly ell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D, LL.D., &c,, 17, Trafalgar-road,[OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika. Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cenrral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-cbambers. Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres-
v pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres-
pondtnce.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. ThOmas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St, Petersburg.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Biko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague,-Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Eue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
G. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Bue de Borne, Paris.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, M.D., 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Dr. G. C. Wittig, Leipsie.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVPYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays exceptel.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORLE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residehee daily, from Three tiR Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again onen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bushl
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
FT. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New Y^rk. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. ReGMisr your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
YISlTORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-sireet, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
"ANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a small HOUSE, or part of a house
(unturnished), to consist of bedrjom, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity o; Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Bent, inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letters to be addressed to “Advertiser,”
care of Thos. Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “H” care of
Mr. F. A Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Anns squar'e Manchester.
]\/IOHAMMED and MOHAMMEDANISM: Lectures
-i-V_L delivered at the Royal Insti uti >n of Great Britain in February and
March, 1*74. By R.BOSWOETfl SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.”—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicia
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
W. H. GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER.
STUDIO:—45, CHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.C.
List of Prices. £ s. d.
Album Portraits    ... 6 for 0 5 0
,t „ «      12 „ 0 7 6
,, ,, (2 positions)   12 „ Q 9 f)
Group of two      ... i2 „ 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Yignettes     ...       12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest” i    12 „ 0 12 6
Cameo Vignettes ... ... ..... ... ... ... ... ... 12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits  1 for 3s. 6d. or 6 „ 0 10 6
Drawing Room Portraits, size 8J by 6J-     ... 0 10 6
,t „ ,, framed and coloured complete  110
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame ...•       complete 2 2 0
Locket Portraits    ...    .... each 0 2 6
„ „ coloured  from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Cridque in the Photographic News, November 22nd, 1872.
“Mr W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant,
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition.”
Established in Comhili, 1862.
IV
THE* SPIBITUALIST.
July 24, 1874.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIEITTJALISM DESEEYES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.GKAtkinson,Esq.,F.Q-.S., G. WheatleyBeimett,Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Queleh, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
iNQtriRHRS into Spiritualism should, begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impiilsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle tymptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
THE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
f f which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Hbnry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
List already promised.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan  
Twelve other friends £1 each 
A Friend at Oldham ... ..,
A Ditto at Manchester 
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.
REWARD.—MASKEDYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSURE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
A GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church Grammar
School, thrown . out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECRETARY, iTutor, Master of School, ar
otherwise. Address: Alpha, The Mansion, Leatherhead, Surrey
£
5
12
1
1
£1,000
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridckk & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of SffiAndrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London ,E.O.
