AND
JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[KEGISTEBED FOB TBANSMISSION ABBOAD.]
No. 110.—(Vol. Y.—No. 14.) LONDON: OCTOBER 2, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Beview—“The Honeymoon.” By Count D. Medina Pomar 157
Spiritual Manifestations in Derbyshire. By W. P. Adshead:—Seances in
Derbyshire through Mrs. Everitt's Mediumship — Spirit Lights and
Scents—Curious Noises made by th e Spirits—The Religious Teachings
of the Spirits—Movements of Untouched Solid Objects—Spirit Iden¬
tity—Remarkable Spirit Lights—The Good or Evil of Spiritualism—A
Visit to Wingfield Manor— Thought-Reading — A Child Spirit—
Direct Spirit Writing—A Visit to Dovedale—A Vision of Geological
Changes—An Extemporised Seance at a Hotel—Miscellaneous Mani¬
festations—Derbyshire Spar carried Fourteen Miles by Spirits 159
Spiritualism in East London:—New Trance Mediums for Public Speak¬
ing—Wesleyanism and Spiritualism Compared—Powerful Physical
Manifestations—Miss Eagar's Trance Medium ship—Miss Young’s
Trance Mediumship — Objections to Spiritualism — Miss Keeves’
Trance Mediumship1—Mr. Webster’s Trance Mediumship—Professor
Wilson Confounds a Clerical Gentleman—Speaking in Unknown
"Tongues—Organisation of Spiritualists in East London ...  164
The Coming Lecture Season    166
Pubjic Buildings for.Spiritualists   166
Life and its Laws from a Swedenborgian Point of View. No. II. By
William Oxley ... ...      167
CorrespondenceRules of Life; A Psychometric Phenomenon ?; A
Spiritualist Public Reading-Room for Liverpool; Spiritual Meetings
at Mile-end    ...  168
Answers to Correspondents     168
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse’s Farewell Benefit Soiree, 166; “London So¬
ciety ” on Spiritualism, 168; Spiritualism in Rochdale, 168; Theolo¬
gical Scarecrows...   iii
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-tuming to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not and
all inquirers into psyetiological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules jnay be had upon application.
A THIRD SERIES OF
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Son. Secretary and Treasurer.)
THE above ladies and gentlemen encouraged by the
success which attended the two former courses of lectures last
season by Mrs. Tappan, have formed themsolves into a committee with
power to add to their number for engaging that Lady for the whole of the
coming season.
There will be 36 lectures, commencing on the 29th of October, and
ending in June next, divided into courses of twelve each, which will be
delivered on Sunday evenings at The Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer
street, Portland-place.
A subscriber of £5 for the whole series will be entitled to a reserved
seat for himself and a friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures will be issued at
24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. tickets.
All seats not claimed five minutes before delivery of the address will be
filled up if required.
Tickets to be obtained only of the Secretary and Treasurer, on enclosing
post office order. Single Tickets will be sold at the doors.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 86, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
R
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLAGE, PARK ROAD, REGENT1S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
ii
the Manchester association of
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Riohaed Fitton, Secretary pro lem.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarin o-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; Ss. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation ot £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, lion. Secretary.
EAST LONDON SHRITUAL MEETINGS. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every. Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt's Letter on the Beitish National Association
op SpieitualisTS. By Alsernon Joy (“Iota.’) Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin L^e. M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo. cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a Short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborh, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age. under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Authoe, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do ? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-slreet, London.
THtlBNEH AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyiight Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, clotb, 7s. 6d.
A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne w Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
. 308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Reai'zable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of *he Fittest—Limits and 1 irections of Human Development—The Sig
nifleance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE LESriNY OF MAN, The Storm King, aod other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubser & Co.,. 57 and 59, Ludgate-bill.
MR. MORSE’S FAREWELL BENEFIT SOIREE.
Dr. Gully.
Dr. Sexton.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq.
Patrons.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Mrs. Tappan.
Mrs. Mikdougall Gregory.
Mrs, Eveiitt.
Mrs. Tebb.
Miss Kislingbury.
Arrangements are being made by the metropoli'an friends of Mr. J. J
Morse to give him a complimentary farewellsofree previous to his departure
for America in October next. The meeting will be held in the
CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTE (late Princess’s Concert Rooms),
65, Castle-street, Oxford-street, W.,
On THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 8th, 1874.
The proceeds of the above soiree will be presented to Mr. Morse to assist
him in the object be has in view. The proc“eoing.s will be similar to those
at last year’s soiree, which proved so highly attractive. Refreshments
will be served during the early part of the e'ening, and selections of vocal
and instrumental music, interspersed with a few speeches, will occupy ihe
remainder of the time. Tickets ior soiree and entertainment, 2s. 6d.; for
entertainment only, Is. 6d.
The chair will be occupied by Mr. Thomas Everitt. Further particulars
in future advertisements.
Mrs. F. A. Maltby, Hon. Sec.t
8, Granville-terrace, Shafteshury-road, Hammersmith.
GOSWELL HALL.
1VTRS. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
i-T.L on SUNDAY EVENINGS (oommencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, GosweJl-road, E O.
Lectmes oh the following Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
October 4th. ‘‘Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiri’ualism.”
October Hth.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course Subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6 30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.
SPIRITUALISM.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN (Trance Medium) will
deliver an ADDRESS and IMPROMPTU POEM at the Grand
Concert Hall West Street, Brighton, on Sunday, October 4th, at Seven
p m. Subjects of Address and Poem to be chosen by the audience.
Music.—Hymns from “ The Spiritual Lyre ’ will be sung, and a selection
from Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater” will be played on the Grand Organ.
Organist, Mr. W. Devin.
Admission free. Reserved sittings, which must be obtained beforehand,
2s. 6d. and Is., of Mr. Bray, 82, St. James’s Street, and 37, Upper St. James’s
Street, where a plan of the seats may be seen.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con,
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. To ree Months, 75 cents,
O. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
6, Blandford Street, Baker Street, W.
THE next QUARTERLY MEETING of the Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, will take place on
Monday, October 5th, at above address. Members and friends are
earnestly requested to he present. To commence at 7.30 p.m.
The adjourned Discussion on “National Association” will be held on
Wednesday, October 7th. To commence at Eight o’clock. Admission,
Twopence. O. J. Hunt, Secretary.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tykrman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’S Table cCHote, Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
VOjLUJVIE FIVE. JS[UJVlBEi\ FOURTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2nd, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Cobrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of th?s newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spintualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher', Mr. E. W. Allen. 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be oi’dered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 3S3. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North FifthiStreet.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. E. C. Thornton, 19, Queeusberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118. Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Bicbmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt. Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauFs-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
X
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
‘‘ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent ”—Brighton Guardian.
Mr. Morse will sail for America on Thursday, October 15th, per steam-ship
Celtic, White Star Line. He can receive no more engagements prior to
his departure, his time being fully engaged.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
Iftebteto.
The Honeymoon. By Count de Medina Pomar. London :
Triibner and Co. 1874. [First notice.]
Some quotations from this philosophical romance
have already been published in The Spiritualist, and
the work is of especial interest to the readers of these
pages, because in it the fundamental ideas at the root
of the leading doctrines of Spiritualism, are laid before
general readers in a pleasing form. There is no plot
in the novel, but a young couple—an English noble¬
man and his Spanish bride—spend their honeymoon
travelling in Scotland ; the bride, Concepcion Yargas,
is a rigid Roman Catholic who had been educated in a
convent; and the husband, originally a Roman Catholic,
but educated at materialistic Oxford, accustomed, more¬
over, to the study of scientific subjects, and to thinking
for himself, has outgrown both Roman Catholic and
Protestant dogmas, consequently proves to be rather a
slippery son of mother Church. While admitting all
the proved facts of physical science, he is, however, too
sound at heart, and has too much of the religious ele¬
ment in his soul to turn materialist, but occupies the
position of a sincere seeker after truth. The young
couple love each other dearly, but when they begin to
talk upon religious subjects, of the origin and destiny
of man, then comes not exactly “ the tug of war,” but
an amount of mental friction not strong enough to
jeopardise their affection for each other. Whether in
real life a husband and wife so widely divergent
in their religious ideas, could so harmonise for a
considerable length of time, is a very serious social
problem. However, in the story now under notice
there is just sufficient divergence to make their
conversations on religious subjects interesting. The
book is made up of these conversations, interspersed
with romantic tales, descriptions of Scotland’s beau¬
tiful scenery, and poetical quotations. There is no
striving for sensational effect in the work, although
in one of the little romances a lover goes mad, and
descends the chimney to visit his beloved, after the
fashion of the old gentleman w7ho visited Mrs. Nickleby;
not that there is any relationship between the two in¬
cidents, for that told by Dickens is all comedy, whilst
the one narrated by Count Pomar is a well-told tragedy.
For these tales, and the descriptions of Scottish scenery,
the reader must consult the book itself; on the present
occasion it is purposed to deal chiefly with the religious
portions of the work, in which Lord Carlton, the hus¬
band, takes the unorthodox side of every question, and
his wife adheres to the teachings of the convent.
When the hero of the tale began to think for himself,
he first, like all Spiritualists, disencumbered his mind
of the doctrine of eternal punishment, for he could not
see why God should be worse than man, and inflict
terrible suffering, without having in view the reforming
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
of the offender. Then, unlike many Spiritualists, he
faced the next difficulty, and asked, if God pardoned the
sinner after adequate punishment, what was the use of
a Saviour? Next, he began to doubt whether it was
irreligious to consider these problems, but satis¬
fied himself that his innate faith in the love,
mercy, and justice of God was the very cause
of his mooting them. The fruitful subject of the per¬
sonality of the Devil occupied his attention j he wanted
to know why God made the Devil, although Gerald
Massey’s question, “ why God does not kill the Devil,”
appears to have escaped him. If the Devil were
originally an angel, God must have known beforehand
he would fall; besides, who tempted that particular
angel ? And if an angel sinned without any Devil to
tempt him, why could not a man do the same ? The
inquiring mind of the young nobleman next wanted to
know if Adam fell without hereditary sin, why the
sins of men are supposed to proceed from that original
sin, and what justice was there in one mortal suffering
for sins committed by another before he was born ? He
could not understand why God tempted His own children,
why He once “ greatly deceived this people ” (Jer. iv.
10), and “ sent them a strong delusion that they should
believe a lie.” He could not surmise why “ The Lord
hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all those thy
prophets and the Lord hath spoken evil concerning
thee ” (1 Kings xxii. 23); nor why “ The Lord said
unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang
them up before the Lord against the sun” (Num. xxv.
4); nor why “ Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,
Put every man his sword by his side, and go in and
out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay
every man his brother, and every man his companion,
and every man his neighbour” (Ex. xxxii. 27). He
began to question the possibility of worshipping such a
God, and to ask whether the instruments invented by
Galileo and Leuwenhoek had not shown man more of
the glorious works of God than all the Bibles, Eddas,
and Yedas of antiquity put together. He thought
H was it right to desert the religion of his fathers ? ”
but was confronted with the circumstance that the same
question applied with equal force to persons brought up
in all other religions; moreover his fathers had told him
to believe a book which said that the sun went round
the earth, and that one was equal to three—which was
bad arithmetic. As these thoughts developed he
questioned how he should be able to live with his new
wife—a narrow-minded girl, accustomed only to dress
images in a convent.
Full of these ideas, Lord Carlton found himself and
his bride, the Sunday morning after their marriage, at
the hotel at Dumbarton, where he rang for his shaving
water. “Ye canna have hot water on the Lord’s Day
for sic a thing as shaving! ” said the horror-struck
waiter, nor could the heart of the waiter be softened.
Remembering that in Scotland the Sabbath is the
favourite day for getting drunk, his lordship ordered
some toddy, and when it came he gave the whisky to
the waiter, captured the hot water for shaving pur¬
poses, and left the sugar to take care of itself. Having
thus escaped the Scylla of one theological difficulty, he
fell into the Charybdis of another. His wife thought
it high time to throw herself at the feet of “ the blessed
Yirgin of the Conception,” but discovered that there
was no Roman Catholic Church in Dumbarton. “ Oh!
Walter, why have you brought me to this land of here¬
tics, where the holy religion of God is unknown?” He
went to the railway station. “ The trains don’t run
during the hours of divine service,” said the station-
master, in a very dignified way. At this news Con-
chita became more excited, when Lord Carlton sug¬
gested going to kirk. “Are you mad, Walter? How
can you think of entering that place of perdition ? Oh,
never!—never!”
Nevertheless, as the novel wheels its onward course,
the original bigoted character of the heroine is not
altogether sustained ; she makes quiet, thoughtful ob¬
jections to her husband’s heterodox speculations, and
they get on very lovingly, so that the main characteris¬
tic of the book is its philosophical spirit rather than its
dramatic force as a work of fiction. On rare occasions,
however, the former spirit of Conchita flashes out; for
instance, when Lord Carlton tells her of the numberless
worlds in the universe as demonstrated by modem
astronomy, she replies: “ My father confessor has
often told me that this is the only world, that there is
no other in the universe, and I believe it; a priest of
God could not be mistaken.” Her husband gradually
teaches her the grandeur and sublimity of the scale on
which the universe is built, how myriads of living
things float in the form of dust in the very air wo
breathe and the water we drink, all the organisms
being perfect after their kind, and many pages of the
book are thus filled with pleasing and instructive de¬
scriptions of some of the more interesting discoveries
of modern science, coupled with the argument that
such truths give purer and nobler ideas of God than
all the dogmas of theology. By an accidental slip the
sun Sirius is described as a habitable world, and the
argument of the author that all the planets are in¬
habited goes rather beyond the evidence. For instance,
there is reason to suppose that Jupiter is in an in¬
tensely hot state, perhaps still red-hot, and that its
clouds are consequently not due to the condensation of
aqueous vapour, but to igneous action. Then, again,
although Mars has seas, and continents, and polar
snows, there is considerable evidence that it is exceed¬
ingly cold there, and that snow is very generally falling
all over the planet. The heat must be intense upon
Mercury and Yenus, because they are so close to the
sun. Mr. R. A. Proctor has given much attention to
these questions, and he argues that as the period during
which intelligent life has existed upon our earth, is as
nothing compared with the geological ages during
which there was no intelligent life upon it, it is pro¬
bably the same with other planets; consequently, we
have no right to assume that we are looking at them
exactly at that very short moment in their geological
history, daring which intelligent life is to be found
upon their surfaces. But as there are myriads of
worlds outside our solar system, rolling round other
suns, it is irrational to suppose that in the smaller pro¬
portion of them intelligent life does not exist, so to this
extent Count Pomar’s argument is borne out by the
evidence at present at command.
The book is dedicated by Count Pomar to his mother,
the Countess of Caithness, who has done so much to
help forward the cause of Spiritualism. One of the
narratives introduced into the story contains an incident
in the history of the Caithness family which is histori¬
cally true. At the battle of Flodden in 1513, just
before the fight, the Earl of Caithness unexpectedly
marched up with several hundreds of his men, and
volunteered to aid King James, who was so much
pleased with this voluntary aid from the young Earl,
Oct. 2, 1874.
tfHE SPIRITUALIST.
159
that he wrote out a removal of his forfeiture on a drum¬
head, and dispatched one of the Sinclair soldiers with it
to the Countess of Caithness. That man who carried
the “ Drumhead Charter ” with him, was the only one
of the Caithness corps that ever returned.
Count Pomar’s book is in two volumes, and we have
given an outline of it up to the point where Allan
Kardec’s theories are introduced into it, and these we
purpose to consider in another and closing notice.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN DERBYSHIRE.
BT W. P. ADSHEAD.
About four months ago I was privileged to attend a seance
at Lilian-villa, Hendon, near London, the residence of my
friend, Mr. Thomas Everitt. Before going there, a well-known
Spiritualist said to me, “ You are exceedingly fortunate, as
you will there have an opportunity of judging of some of the
best phenomena of Spiritualism, under exceptionally favour¬
able circumstances,” and so it proved ; most of the phenomena
were to me new, and certainly very startling, and if possible
they were rendered still more interesting and impressive by
their occurrence in the presence of one of the most dis¬
tinguished men of science of the day.
For six months previously I had read all the Spiritualist
literature I could meet with, but I still felt that more was
wanted before I could say “ I know Spiritualism is true.” I
have, therefore, very great pleasure in saying that at the
seance in question, through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt, so
far as I was concerned, theory and hypothesis largely gave
place to hard, solid fact.
Closely following upon conviction came the desire that the
circle of investigators with which I am connected in Belper,
Derbyshire, should have the opportunity of seeing and hearing
what I have seen and heard, and the question was, “ If they
cannot come here to the medium, cannot the medium go to
them ?”
I made a venture, by asking Znippy, a bright, joyous spirit,
well-known to those who have attended the seances at Hendon,
if he would visit us in Belper. He replied, “ Well, Peter, I
should be happy to do so, but cannot go without my carriage,”
alluding to Mrs. Everitt, his medium. “ Pray come, and
bring your carriage with you,” I answered, “ for we shall be
delighted to have Mrs. Everitt in Derbyshire, and the journey
will do her good.”
My name is William Peter, and I am not aware that any
one then present knew my Christian names. I was, therefore,
not a little surprised at being addressed as Peter, and it is
only within the last six weeks that I have discovered the rea¬
son why;
It was arranged that as soon as convenient, my wish should
be gratified; and, recollecting the experience of Miss Showers
at Moat Mount and Mr. Monck at Wolverhampton, P am not
a little pleased in being able to say that without the slightest
hesitation Mr. and Mrs. Everitt honoured me with their con¬
fidence by promising to become my guests.
SEANCES IN DEBBYSHIRE THROUGH MRS. EVERITl’s
MEDIUMSHIP.
On Wednesday, the 10th of June, I met them in Derby, at
the residence of my brother, who, like myself, is an earnest
student of SpirituaUsm. We arranged for a seance in the even¬
ing. During tea, my brother said to me, “ You ought to invite
me to Belper, in return for my asking you to attend our
seance," when loud raps were heard on the table, and by means
of the alphabet, the words, ” Peter asked himself,” were spelt
out—a fact, but one which had been overlooked by my brother.
This first message, flashed along the line of spirit telegraphy,
proved to be the precursor of a number of others during Mrs.
Everitt’s stay in Derbyshire, greater far than I shall be able to
record in this communication.
Our seance commenced at about 8.30 p.m. There were ten
persons present, amongst them a resident minister of the town,
in reference to whom I think I do not err when I say that a
few months ago he would have regarded it as most unlikely
that he would ever be found in such a situation; he had
looked at Spiritualism from the Amberley and Tyndall stand¬
point ; he knew nothing about it, and therefore concluded
there was nothing in it. But frequent conversations with a
friend, and reading R. Dale Owen’s Debatable Land, and
other works of a like nature, made him desire to know more.
It was therefore with feelings of no common interest he took
his place at the seance, and at the close he did not hesitate to
affirm that, in his opinion, what he had seen and heard was
not the result either of trickery, psychic force, or unconscious
cerebration, but, in the absence of a more rational theory, must
be referred to the agency of the loving and powerful disem¬
bodied intelligences by whom we are surrounded. Six of the
sitters were members of a spiritual circle, which for many
months had regularly met in Derby, but in which trance medium-
ship only had obtained; by them Mr. and Mrs. Everitt’s visit
will be pleasantly and gratefully remembered; because through
her mediumship they were introduced to a feature of Spirit¬
ualism of which before they had only read, but which they
felt was wanted, in order that that which had been subse¬
quently given, might be confirmed by that which was objec¬
tive, and more easily and sensibly realised.
While the gas was still alight, raps were heard on the table,
floor, and Mrs. Everitt’s chair; we were soon in communica¬
tion with the invisibles; by their direction Mr. Everitt was
able to place the sitters in harmonious relation to each other.
We were then instructed, through the alphabet, as to the hymn
we should sing, the passages of Scripture to be read, and who
should engage in prayer. It is worthy of note that during
prayer loud and emphatic raps were ever and anon heard, un¬
mistakable expressions of sympathy with the petitions which
were being offered up.
SPIRIT EIGHTS AND SCENTS.
We were then instructed to put out the light and sing again,
during which the room seemed filled with most delicious per¬
fume, accompanied by a soft, refreshing breeze, forcing from
several of the sitters exclamations of delight.
In quick succession came the beautiful spirit lights for
which Mrs. Everitt’s seances are distinguished. “ Ah! is
that you, Silvis ?” said Mr. Everitt; three flashes of light were
the answer in the affirmative. “ Is Annie here, and is she giving
us the scents?” Three flashes once more answered “ Yes.”
For several minutes in succession these lights appeared with
such brilliancy and in such numbers we felt assured that more
than one operator was at work. With a rapid motion they
described different circuits, and then became beautifully
blended into one, significant, we were told, of the close relation¬
ship existing between the exhibitors.
There then fell upon the ear a sound such as we had not
heard here before; it seemed to come from an upper and
distant part of the room ; for the first time, not only in the
history of modern Spiritualism, but, I venture to say, in the
history of the county of Derby, the direct voice of a spirit
was then heard here. The word '‘Sipg” was pronounced
faintly, and as if the speaker respired with difficulty; when
the hymn had been sung, Znippy (for he was the speaker), in
a voice which I at once recognised, addressed me, saying,
“ Well, Peter, I am glad to meet you in Derby.” I returned
the salutation ; for the next half hour Znippy was master of
the situation, creating and sustaining an interest and excite¬
ment which are difficult to describe ; his movements were
electrical in their swiftness; at the same moment, with the
tube, he seemed to tap the heads of the sitters, the floor,
ceiling, and table.
Bright flashes of wit and smart repartees were given, such
as seldom fall from mortal lips. Questions were asked, and
answered almost before they were finished; some of the
sitters were gently chided, others complimented. One young
lady, on account of her good singing, appeared to be an
especial favourite, and more than once Znippy gave expression
to the excellence of his musical taste by saying to her, “ Come,
Jenny, let us have ‘ The little church round the corner.’”
As a test question a gentleman said, “ Znippy, can you spell
my Christian name ? ” “ Sitruc ” was spelt out. ” That is
wrong,” said the gentleman, “ My name is Curtis,” and he
did not discover until some time afterwards that Znippy had
got on his blind side and spelt his name backwards.
CURIOUS NOISES MADE BY THE SPIRITS.
“Is John here?” enquired Mr. Everitt. “No,” replied
Znippy, ‘ ‘ but he will be shortly.” We had not long to wait.
I may here observe that during the evening, in the light, we
had an illustration of the power which spirits possess of pro -
ducing almost any sound required. We were gratified by hear¬
ing as it were a plane at work, then a saw, next a centre-bit,
and last of all a heavy hammer, driving home a correspond¬
ingly heavy nail. This may help to explain the peculiar noise
which now broke upon the stillness into which we had subsided;
it resembled nothing so much as the prancing of a fiery steed
held well in hand.
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
“ John is coming on horseback,” remarked some one. Pre¬
sently the dignified and intelligent spirit, John Watt, introduced
himself by saying in calm and measured tones, contrasting
strongly and strangely with the vivacity and dash of Znippy,
“ Good evening, I am glad to meet all here.’’
THE RELIGIOUS TEACHINGS OE THE SPIRITS.
1 think I do not use language too strong when I speak of
John Watt as a heavenly messenger, or, like the John of olden
time, as one “sent from God.” Words of wisdom and kind¬
ness fell from him. Exhortations and incentives to purity of
thought and life were given, while the lower and higher
interests of humanity were vividly contrasted.
My ministerial friend invited an expression of opinion on
matters purely theological. It was frankly given, and found to
differ from that of the enquirer. We were, however, soon made
to understand that theological differences were of little
moment; that creed and dogma had little to do with the pre¬
paration of the spirit for a high place in the Father’s house
above.
This sweet communion, a communion which caused all pre¬
sent to feel it was good to be there, and as if our ordinary,
dull, heavy atmosphere had been intensely rarefied or displaced
by the breath of angels, was prolonged until a late hour. At
last we were warned it was time to close by John pronouncing
over us a benediction in language most touching and spiritual,
after which he retired as he came, the peculiar noise I have
mentioned, loud at first, gradually lessening, until it appeared
to die away in the far distance. So ended seance number one.
By direction of the spirits another seance was held at my
brother’s residence on the following evening. I was not there,
but have been informed that the phenomena were quite as
woncferful as on the previous evening, and the results equally
satisfactory.
On Friday, the 12th, I drove Mr. and Mrs. Everitt from
Derby to Belper, a quiet little town lying snugly in the valley
of the Derwent. Our way for about seven miles lay through a
beautiful country, undulating and richly wooded, which gave
Mr. Everitt an opportunity of rubbing up a portion of his
natural history. There was not a bird on the wing which he
could not call by name. He enlivened the way by narrating
the care with which he had attended to this part of his educa¬
tion in the days of his boyhood. The weather was splendid,
and my friends were in capital spirits, especially Mr. Everitt,
who was just recovering from a severe illness.
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt’s arrival in Belper was the occasion of
great satisfaction to the enquirers here; for, in addition to the
peculiar and high-class phenomena of which nearly every
member of our circle would be a witness for the first time, we
relied upon the counsel and instruction which we well knew
our guests, as Spiritualists of large experience, were well able
to give, and which I, from personal knowledge, felt sure they
would be delighted to give, as something that would greatly aid
us in our labours for the future, and we were not dis¬
appointed.
As it was desirable that Mrs. Everitt’s visit should be made
to meet as fully as possible the wish to investigate, we
arranged to have two seances during her stay, at each of which
six members of our circle (which consists of twelve persons)
and two or three fresh enquirers should be present.
The first was held on the evening of Saturday, the 13th
June, in a room in my works, which I have fitted up for the
purpose. To the delight and profit of all present the first
fifteen minutes were spent in listening to Mr. Everitt, while
in clear and simple language he gave us a chapter from the
eventful spiritual history of himself and his gifted wife, and in
the examination of two or three pieces of direct spirit writing
he had brought with him.
•' MOVEMENTS OE UNTOUCHED SOLID OBJECTS.
We were then called to duty by loud raps on the table and
in different parts of the room. As at Derby, so here, Mr.
Everitt, under direction, succeeded in placing the sitters most
harmoniously round, but at some distance from, the table. Pre¬
sently, without a hand or foot touching it, and in full gas¬
light, the table moved across the floor and pressed against
Mrs. Everitt, fixing her tightly in her chair. Mr. Everitt said
quickly, “ Will you kindly move the table back again ? ” when
instantly it moved away in the opposite direction. Almost at
the same time Mrs. Everitt’s chair, with her in it, was lifted
up and carried backwards about eighteen inches. We after¬
ward discovered that this had been done to place the sitters
and medium at a greater distance from a cabinet which had
been fixed in the room for physical manifestations.
Again was the melody chosen by the spirits, as were also
most appropriate portions of scripture from Ezekiel and The
Acts, which Mr. Everitt read; after which he prayed.
The most severely exacting could not fail to be satisfied
with the phenomenon of rapping as now heard ; in parts of
the room, far beyond the reach of any one present, raps were
both numerous and very loud, while by means of them some
excellent tests of spirit identity were given.
The light was put out, and another hymn sung, during
which a soft wind or atmosphere, laden with delicious per¬
fume, was flung round the circle, coming upon those who
inhaled it for the first time with all the force of a miracle ;
the good spirit, Annie Blower, was very busy, for at intervals
during the seance the nameless aroma was supplied without
stint.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Addressing me, Mrs. Everitt said, “ I see a spirit form
standing immediately behind you ; it is that of a female, she
has an oval face, her hair is parted over her forehead, and she
wears a cap.” I said, “ That is a very correct description
of my mother, who, I have reason to believe is ever near
me.”
Mrs. Everitt had never seen my mother or a likeness of her,
but subsequently, upon being shown a photograph of her
taken a short time before her death, she said, “ That is the
likeness of the form I saw.”
REMARKABLE SPIRIT LIGHTS.
An intelligent friend of mine, and a most careful investiga¬
tor, said to me in reference to these' seances, “ the part, of all
I have seen and heard, which to me is the most astounding
and incomprehensible, is the phenomenon of spirit lights.”
He is not alone in that opinion ; here the conjuror’s art is at
fault, here his power of imitation fails him. The “ spirit light”
is something differing greatly from that of a phosphorised
tambourine swung at the end of a long stick; the highest
resources of chemistry have as yet been unable to produce a
similar light, to say nothing of the management necessary to
produce the same remarkable effects, for as the ear hears the
notes of a tune struck on the piano, so our eyes at this seance
looked on notes of fire, which without noise or combustion,
were struck out of the darkness, making an accompaniment to
the hymn we were singing. This effect was remarkably good
in connection with the two hymns known as “ Twinkle,
twinkle, little star," and “ Beautiful dove," while in connec¬
tion with the latter the effect was not only correct as to
musical figure, bat beautifully artistic, for the lights resolved
themselves into the fiery representation of the fluttering
wings of a dove, which gradually descended from the ceiling to
within a short distance of Mrs. Everitt’s head, and then
disappeared.
We now heard the tube taken from the table, and carried
swiftly about the room, its position being indicated by striking
the ceiling, floor, chairs, and heads of sitters. We were told
that this was the signal for Znippy’s advent. Presently he
was heard to say, “ How are all the friends here ? What a
fanny place this is 1”—alluding to the deep principals of the
ceiling which were uncovered, and amongst which he had
been rattling the tube. “ Very different to the seance room at
Hendon,” I said. “I should think it is, but it will do very
well,” replied Znippy; then addressing my brother and his
wife, who had to go back to Derby that night, he said,
f George and Alice, it is time you were gone, or you will miss
the train.”
It is very difficult to describe the effect which hearing the
direct voice of a spirit for the first time had on those present.
Some appeared to breathe more freely, from others there
escaped a subdued expression of astonishment, while all seemed
to feel, with Longfellow, that
“The Bpirifual world
Lies all about us, and its avenues
Are open to the unseen feet of phantoms
That come and go, and we perceive them not,
Save by their influence, or when at times
A most mysterious providence permits them
To manifest themselves to mortal eyes.”
“ How do you fed, Mr. Smedley? ” said Znippy, addressing
a gentleman who had just commenced to investigate Spirit¬
ualism. “ Bather sceptical,” was the answer. “ I thought so,”
replied Znippy. This, taken in connection with two or three
cases of a similar kind, would seem to indicate that the
mental condition of the sitters is clearly known to our invisible
friends.
In moving about, Znippy tapped the head of a young lady
several times with the tube, she, fearing for a large feather,
Oct. 2, 1874.
THE SPIJEtlTUALIST.
161
which formed part of her head-dress, invited caution, when
Znippy had his fling at the fashions, by telling her she should
not wear such a high thing on the top of her head. Then, as
on every occasion when Znippy was master of the ceremonies,
conversation grew apace, in which Mrs. Everitt joined. This
did not meet with his approbation, for, speaking just above
her head, he said very gravely, but very emphatically, “ Mrs.
Everitt, will you be quiet? do hold your tongue!” Then
addressing Mr. Everitt, he congratulated him on the improve¬
ment in his health, and thought he would have no occasion to
regret his visit to Derbyshire.
THE GOOD OR EVIL OF SPIRITUALISM.
In Belper, as in almost every other place where Spiritualism
has obtained a foothold, there are to be found individuals
who, not understanding either its science, philosophy, or
aims have denounced it. Being unable to ignore its facts,
they have sought to stifle enquiry by describing it as a thing
forbidden by God, and of satanic origin.
It being intimated that John Watt would speak at this
seance, when he came, our friend Mr. Wigley asked him
whether or not the work in which we were now engaged was of
Satanic origin.
” This of satanic origin ?” replied John. “ You can, if you
choose, make it evil in the restricted sense of communion
with evil or unprogressed spirits,”—but most emphatically did
he deny the existence of a personal devil, and for nearly half
an hour most beautifully did he discourse to us of the
character and attributes of God, of man’s relation while on
earth to the spirit world, of the nature of sleep and dreams,
of the absolute certainty with which the condition of the
future would correspond to the character of the present life,
concluding by assuring us that to the ministering spirits of
God it was a source of pure joy and solid pleasure, to be able
by their counsel and power to guide and protect the pilgrims
of earth on their journey to heaven.
John Watt’s theory is rational and is sustained by facts, for
within our short experience we have found that by electing to
sit with one medium, and deciding not to sit with another,
we have given to our seances their distinctive character of
elevation and profit;—whereas, by allowing both mediums to
sit at the same time, we have had conflicting expressions of
sentiment and desire, one spirit recommending prayer, another
denouncing it; one craving more wisdom and purity, another
wrapping himself up in the memory of his lusts and fiery
passions ; one breathing love and kindness to those present,
another malice and hate, even threatening to injure the
medium. So that if these different forces are to be referred
to one source, and that the devil, to say the least, it proves
him to be a very bad tactician.
What object can he propose to himself, by coming at the
same moment, to the same persons, as an angel of light, and
an angel of darkness, for “ a house divided against itself
cannot stand.” If ” a tree is known by its fruits,” if “ men
do not gather grapes of thorns,” then is Spiritualism divine,
for all over the country are to be found individuals who, by
its instrumentality, have been won to virtue and to God.
If at the instigation and under the control of the devil,
mediums, by their utterances, incite to a pure and holy life, at
whose instigation and under whose control do our public and
paid teachers, the ministers of our churches, by their words
do the same thing ? It is a fair question, tor we all know that
one of like import was put to the same class of cavillers more
than 1,800 years ago—“ And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils,
by whom do your children cast them out?” And oh, how
true it is, that, all along the ages since then, the possibilities
of humanity have never received glowing exposition from the
lips of the apostle of a new faith—the before untrodden paths
of science have never had faithful delineation at the hands of
a patient and truth-loving student of her mysteries—emanci¬
pation, material and moral, has never been offered to the
enslaved and downtrodden of our race—without the work to be
done conflicting with the vested interests or theological con¬
servatism of the hour, and the cry of “ Devil ” being made to
do duty for argument, and flung in the face of the advocates
of liberty and progress, and rung in the ears of enquirers, who,
in the pursuit of truth, felt constrained to bowto fact, acknow¬
ledge reason, and reverence law! But, in addition, I hold that
the satanic origin theory is completely set aside by the New
Testament account of the most luminous seance of which
Spiritualism has any knowledge, that in which Christ is
represented as communing with the spirits of Moses and Elias;
for it is the most abject special pleading, and begging of the
question, to take the account out of the domain of history,
and give to it a character which it is not pretended can be
given to the account of Christ entering Jerusalem, seated on
an ass. The story is either true or false; if a myth, what
then ? If a fact, we have then the assurance that Spiritualism
has resting upon it the broad sanction and distinct approval
of Him whom we delight to acknowledge and honour.
A TISIT TO "WINGFIELD MANOR.
On Monday, the 15th, we drove to Wingfield Manor, the
magnificent ruins of a once beautiful and strongly-built castle.
It stands on a commanding eminence, from which, in the
more stirring times of English history, it frowned alternately
on the arms of the king and the parliament. To those who
now climb its decaying battlements, explore its wonderfully
preserved crypt, or picnic on the site of its splendid banquet-
ing-hall, the place is invested with more than the ordinary
interest of a ruin; for be it remembered that here was held
in charge, by the Earl of Shrewsbury, the royal prisoner,
Mary Queen of Scots.
To us who believed in the “ marching on ” of the human
spirit, the thought came, that the shades of those who in the
far past had, on the spot where we now lingered, helped to
make the history and build up the fortunes of our country,
might then be very near to us, prepared, did conditions permit,
to put before us the deeds of their earthly lives in a new set¬
ting, and with a fresh significance.
Having entered our names in the visitors’ boob, and indulged
in a draught of pure milk, we spent an hour in fern-gathering.
Derbyshire is celebrated for its ferns, but at Wingfield Manor
are to be found the tiniest and most delicately-formed speci¬
mens of that plant I have anywhere seen growing out of
doors. Of these, Mrs. Everitt secured a very nice assortment.
At our seance in the evening, reference having been made to
them, Znippy, addressing Mr. Everitt, said, “ I like those that
were picked out.” That is exactly descriptive of the manner
in which the small ferns were gathered; with a knife they
were picked out of the crevices of the old castle walls, and
Znippy told us he was looking on while the work was being
done.
THOUGHT-READING.
In connection with this seance, in addition to the phenomena I
have already described, we had an excellent example of thought¬
reading, obtained by my friend Mr. Baldwin, to whom this
feature of Spiritualism is specially interesting. I cannot do
better than give it in his own words, which are an extract
from a letter I received from him shortly after the seance was
held:—
” While I enjoyed intensely the whole of the marvellous
phenomena which occurred at that seance, I will confine my
remaiks to the personal tests I myself received.
“ To make the matter clear, it is necessary to state that
during a very interesting conversation I had with Mr. Everitt
on your lawn after tea, the subject of the objectivity of
thought came up, and I questioned Mr. Everitt concerning his
experience of thought-reading by spirits ; as you know, this
subject greatly interests me, and Mr. Everitt most kindly and
frankly related several incidents in his own experience which
went to prove the possibility of such a thing, concluding by
saying, ‘ Perhaps the spirits will be able to throw some light on
the subject at the evening seance.'
“ Let it be noted that I was with Mr. Everitt the whole of
the time succeeding this conversation until the seance com¬
menced, and certainly Mrs. Everitt, the medium, as well as all
the other persons at the seance, were totally ignorant of the
nature of our conversation.
“ You will remember that shortly after harmonious condi¬
tions were established in the circle, the gas was turned off, and
we sang, after which the spirit Znippy, who, up to that time,
was an entire stranger to me, spoke, first in a whisper, after¬
wards in a voice sufficiently powerful to startle us all, address¬
ing you in a clear, shrill tone, saying, ‘ Well, Peter, how are
you ? ’ After a few more remarks, he addressed me very dis¬
tinctly, saying, ‘ Well, Aquilla, how are you ? glad to make
your acquaintance.’ Now you are quite aware that I am never
addressed in this manner by any of my friends; indeed, very few
of them know that I own this rather unusual name, and I am
certain that Znippy is the first individual who has addressed
me by my Christian name during the four years I have resided
in Derbyshire, with the exception of my spirit sister, who
addressed me thus three years ago, through the mediumship
of Mrs. Hitchcock, of Nottingham, that medium also being
then a stranger to me. In answer to my question, how he
knew my name, Znippy said, ‘ I got it from your knowledge-
box,’ and further questions by Mr. Everitt and myself elicited
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
the fact that Znippy was privy to our conversation on the
lawn, indeed he confessed he had been listening to it.
“ He then stated that, under favourable conditions, spirits
could read the thoughts of the mind, in proof of which he
finished a sentence which I began, he furnishing the objective,
and therefore important part of the sentence; indeed, he
literally took the words out of my mouth, or, rather, out of my
mental sphere, and he not only took the words, but the mean¬
ing, which in this case is all important, as the half of the
sentence he gave could not easily be guessed.
“ I then had tests of a different kind, which, independently of
the lights, direct voice, &c., clearly establish the individuality
of Znippy as distinct from his medium, though dependent
upon her sphere for the means of communication.
“ Later in the evening, Znippy very playfully shouted ‘ Doctor
Quill I ’ to the astonishment of all present except myself. On
asking him where he had heard that, he replied, ‘ Your spirit
sister, who is present, told me.’ Now I am quite certain that
no person in the county of Derby had ever before heard me
thus addressed, or knew that I ever had been so addressed.
“ The fact is, my sister, who has been dead five years, did
occasionally call me ‘ Doctor Quill ’ in fun or to tease me. In
compliance with my request Znippy described the appearance
of my sister in the spirit land, and in all important points
his description of her corresponded to descriptions which I
have received from several independent sources, and it also
agreed with my own spiritual observation of her.”
I cannot pass on without recording the best thanks of our
Belper circle to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt for their ministry of light
and love; especially must I say that to Messrs. H. G. and W.
Wheldon the visit brought great gladness of heart. For years,
during which not a single rap was heard, and when their faith
in the beautiful philosophy had to rest on its literature and
trance mediumship, and that not of the highest order, they
were the patient, consistent, and courageous friends of Spirit¬
ualism. So that to them it was no common event when, amid
the blaze of the astounding phenomena they were privileged
to witness, their faith received its highest confirmation.
The mountain and valley scenery of Derbyshire may suffer
by comparison in the opinion of those who have wandered
amid the beauty and wild grandeur of Switzerland or Scotland,
but even for them I think there must be interest in a ramble
through our romantic Via Gella, delight in the view obtained
from the Black Bocks near Cromford, and something to be seen
in and about the quiet and picturesque little town of Matlock
Bath, which cannot be met with elsewhere. To the latter place
we drove on a lovely afternoon. Our road for about four miles
lay through what may, without exaggeration, be called fern-
land. Here ferns grow in great profusion and luxuriance, the
sight to a Londoner, accustomed to pay a fancy price for a
small specimen, is worth a long journey to look upon.
After visiting several places of interest in Matlock, Mrs.
Everitt and my wife strolled into the churchyard, which is
beautifully situated and neatly kept. This I mention because
their doing so is connected with an incident which formed part
of the phenomena at a subsequent and our last seance held in
Derby.
On Friday, the 19th, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt returned to Derby,
and stayed with my brother until the Tuesday following.
In the interval they were not idle. On the evenings of the
same and following day seances were held, at each of which, in
addition to several members of the circle, two or three
influential inhabitants of the town were present. On each
occasion the results were most satisfactory.
A CHILD SPIRIT
On the Sunday afternoon following, while taking tea at the
house of a gentleman who has recently commenced to investi¬
gate Spiritualism, raps were heard underneath the table. The
alphabet was asked for; Mr. Everitt called over the letters,
while I wrote down those indicated. When the raps had ceased
I tried to throw the letters into a sentence, but could not,
neither could any one present do so. The spirit was then asked
to furnish a key to the communication. ” Chuck ” was at
once spelt out. Before the word was finished my brother said,
” It is Chucky,” a name by which a spirit visiting their circle
was pleased to be known. I went over the letters again, and
read aloud, “ Auntie, I am Bobby,” when a shower of raps
attested its correctness.
The communication was for our hostess from her nephew,
a child who passed away a short time ago. She was much
struck by the style of address, ‘‘ Auntie K being the word he
always used when addressing her. The test was considered by
our kind friends an excellent one, and certainly it served to
deepen and strengthen the impression which had already been
made.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
In the evening we held a seance at my brother’s residence ;
the conditions were as good, if not better, than on any former
occasion. I thus account for a manifestation of spirit power
such as had not yet come within my experience.
John Watt had been conversing with us some" time, when
Mr. Everitt said, ” Hark ! They are going to write.” The slips
of paper kept in one of the tubes appeared to be carried
towards the ceiling, and almost immediately afterwards a piece
of paper, rolled up, was put into my hand. On the instant I
announced the fact. “ Six seconds have elapsed,” said Mr,
Everitt, “ since the paper was carried up.”
John Watt, addressing me, said, “ Peter, you were anxious
to receive a piece of direct writing.” I replied I was most
anxious. “ Well,” said John, “ I am much pleased that to¬
night I have been able to gratify you.” Then addressing my
brother, he said, “ George, you must not feel hurt that you are
not equally favoured; you have had the largest number of
seances, and at some future time I may be able to give you a
writing.”
I now took the opportunity of asking John why he called
me Peter. He replied, ” That is your spiritual name. It
signifies a rock, or firmness, and is descriptive of your
character.”
So purely spiritual felt the atmosphere we were then breath¬
ing, it was impossible to resist the impression that, for the
time, heaven had come down to earth, and that our loved ones
who for a little time had been separated from us were really
with us, and that had it not been for our ” bat’s eyes,” as an
eminent divine says, we might have looked upon a vision, in
which they would have appeared to us lovelier and more loving
far than in the time of their greatest physical beauty, or
strongest earthly affection.
Feeling thus I asked John Watt if my mother were present.
He replied, “ She stands beside you,” almost immediately
adding, “ She has just touched you.” While he was speaking
I felt a hand laid very gently on my right arm twice, but John
announced the fact before I could; it therefore only remained
for me to confirm it.
But what had John Watt written? We were all anxious to
know, so at the end of the seance, when the gas had been re¬
lighted, Mr. Everitt read aloud as follows :—
” Dear Friend,—We) would gladly comply with your wishes
if we could, but it requires such evenly-balanced conditions,
such clear harmony, in fact, a oneness of mind that is so
difficult to obtain on your earth plane, ere we can consolidate
sufficient power to write.
“ You have this evening a very harmonious circle, therefore
we will do our best.
“ You have not long commenced your investigation of this
glorious subject, I find; but you have progressed rapidly, and
just in proportion as you desire more light and knowledge, and
seek truth in a prayerful spirit, will you succeed and gain
knowledge without end, and benefit and instruction without
limit, for you open your mind to. receive truth for the love of
truth, and through that give higher intelligences the power,
and open the door of communication between the two states—
your own and a higher one. Go on, my brother, in the way
you have been doing of late and you will reap a golden harvest.
“May the God of all truth guide you, and may you be a
blessing to your friends around you. We on the other side
will help and surround you, so that your power for good may
increase.
“ Fraternally thine in the best of bonds, love and truth,
“ J. Watt.”
Even to many who are believers in man’s immortality it
appears to be ” a hard nut to crack ” to admit that one from
the ranks of the shining ones could thus, in earth’s rude style,
give expression to his counsel and his love. But I think that
such objectors, to be consistent, should ask themselves whether
the man who refuses to receive the testimony of twelve respect¬
able and trustworthy persons in relation to such an occurrence,
to say the least, is not as much an unbeliever of God’s word
(for facts in nature are in the highest sense God’s word) as is
he who calls in question the resurrection of Lazarus from the
dead ; for, unlike the latter manifestation of power, the former
does not challenge attention as something unique, incompar¬
able. The phenomenon of direct spirit writing has occurred
hundreds of times, and in a large number of instances it rests
upon evidence attested in each case by a necessarily limited
number of persons, than which nothing more conclusive can
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
Oct. 2, 1874.
be offered in support of any historical statement, either sacred
or profane.
That the above communication was written without mortal
contact I am as certain as that I have recorded the fact.
A VISIT TO DOVEDALE.
Early on the following morning a party of twelve, including
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, our ministerial friend of whom I have
before spoken, and our host and hostess of the previous day,
drove in a break, drawn by two good horses, from Derby to
Dovedale, a distance of about eighteen miles. The morning
was lovely, as was the country through which we passed. Our
party was a very happy and harmonious one; for, unlike the
Pilgrims of the Sacred Heart, we were believers not so much in
holy places as in holy principles, in the fact that the power
which consecrates to divinest use both time and place comes
from the loving heart of the worshipper. So that while we
sang some of our beautiful spiritual lyrics we felt that our
carriage was our cathedral, and that choristers from the upper
spheres were round about us, in perfect sympathy with .our
song.
The end of our journey reached, we were, without contro¬
versy,: greatly pleased. The dale through which the Dove
flows, in some of its features, is not unlike a Scottish glen ; it
is well wooded on either side, while high above the foliage
tower immense masses of rock, the crowns of which are
inaccessible enough to be the home of the eagle.
Just before retracing our steps, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt and
myself were leaning against a piece of table-rock, when we
found ourselves in communication with the invisibles. “ They
are rapping,” said Mr. Everitt. It was even so; the raps
sounded as if the rock had been struck with a very small
hammer; we were thus privileged to give to the words a literal
significance of which the poet little dreamt, when he said,
“ There are sermons in stones.”
It was Znippy. After briefly alluding to our journey, and
the place where we then were, he counselled Mrs. Everitt to
take care of herself, and not risk exhaustion, in view of our
seance, in the evening.
A VISIOH OF GEOXOGICAL CHANGES.
After proceeding a short distance on our way back to the
Peveril Hotel, where we had put up, Mrs. Everitt sat down on
a large stone, and taking a piece of rock in her hand, closed
her eyes, at the same time saying her eyelids felt as if they
were fastened down with gum or glue. She then described
what she saw. The psychometric vision ranged over a scene of
wondrous change :’firet, mist, or black vapour; next, a seething
boiling mass, which became hard, and had a spongy appear¬
ance. Anon, what seemed to be a volcano, then others of the
same kind, and from between them flowing a substance like
molten lead, after which one of the volcanoes seemed to
divide with a shock, which was felt by Mrs. Everitt. On no
spot around was there to be seen a green leaf, or vegetation of
any kind. Finally, the earth around seemed to heave and
open, and from out of it came a dark grey substance, which
grew hard at the top ; the sensation then felt by Mrs. Everitt
was that of sinking into a chasm, which feeling brought her
back to her normal state.
The description occupied about ten minutes, and in the
opinion of a gentleman present, who appeared to understand
the matter, answered to what was known of the geology of the
neighbourhood. Of its character Mrs. Everitt herself was quite
ignorant.
AN EXTEMPORISED SEANCE AT A HOTEL.
As if determined that we should have line upon line, and
demonstration upon demonstration, no sooner had we sat
down to tea in the hotel, than our spirit friends made their
presence known in a manner well adapted to rivet the atten¬
tion, and deepen the convictions of those of our number who
were only yet feeling their way towards the truth.
On enquiry, I found that our favourite Lily was one of the
spirit band then in attendance. Laying my hand on the top
of the table, I asked Lily to rap directly under it three times.
This was immediately done ; the raps were loud enough to be
heard outside the room, while my sensation was as if three
blows had been delivered on the palm of my hand.
In presence of such a fact, how absurd and unsatisfactory
appear the theories which have been advanced to account for
this most marvellous part of spiritual phenomena, such as
the snapping of the medium's joints, the collusion of sitters,
electrical apparatus, or even that of psychic force itself, when
that is defined as a force emanating from the body of a
sensitive or medium, but which is uncontrolled by an in¬
dependent intelligence.
MISCELLANEOUS MANIFESTATIONS.
On our arrival in Derby, we prepared at once for our last
seance, which it had been arranged should commence at 8.30.
At the sitting on the previous Saturday evening, Znippy
said he had obtained permission from John Watt to have a
special seance on our return from Dovedale, to which he par¬
ticularly requested I might be invited.
I had not the most remote idea that the request was
dictated by a desire on the part of Znippy to give me person¬
ally, not only an additional, but a special manifestation of
his power and intelligence ; but so it proved.
In connection with that seance, not only had we the usual
phenomena of the direct voice, spirit lights, and perfume, but
an exhibition of power in the form of knocks, and the rapid
movement of what appeared to be a number of feet on the
floor, such as Mr. Everitt declared he had never before been
privileged to hear.
When we sang, an accompaniment was most correctly
beaten on a large tea-tray which had been suspended before a
window in the room for the purpose of excluding the light
which came from an adjoining passage.
Sounds were now heard as if half a dozen spirits were
holding joyous revelry, which was expressed chiefly in the
form of musical movement; this hilarity was sustained for a
considerable time, reaching its height when the table was
struck by what appeared to be a very heavy hand, in a manner
which startled everyone present, causing two or three to jump
from their seats.
On enquiry, it was found that the blow had been given by a
spirit named Dick, who had frequently spoken through Miss
Barker, an excellent trance medium, connected with one of
the Derby circles.
In earth life Dick had been a sailor, and just as in all pro¬
bability, when in discussion with his mates, he had been
accustomed to clinch an argument by striking the fo’castle
table, or capstan head, so might he now choose, in the same
manner, to express his delight and approval of what had
been done.
DERBYSHIRE SPAR CARRIED FOURTEEN MILES BY SPIRITS.
But a short time passed, when we were again startled by
(judging from the sound) a number of small stones falling on
the table from the ceiling. Almost immediately after, Znippy,
addressing me, said, “ Peter, there is a present for you.” “ What
is it ?” I said. “Spar.” “Have you brought it ?” “Yes.”
1 Where from ? ” “ Matlock churchyard, where the ladies were,
and where they cover up the old clothes.” Thus spake Znippy
of the dead body, the mortal habiliment of the spirit.
“ John gave you a piece of writing, which you must keep as
an heirloom,” continued Znippy, “and I have brought the
spar to show you what I can do.”
“ Am I to understand,” said a gentleman, “ that you have
brought one solid body through another ? ”
“ What do you mean by solid ? ” said Znippy.
“ Well, I call my body solid,” said the gentleman.
“ Yes, and liquid too,” replied Znippy.
On a light being struck, we found a quantity of spar lying
on the table. I gathered it up, resolving that as soon as
possible I would compare it with what might be found in the
place from which Znippy said he had brought it,—distant
fourteen miles from the room in which we then sat.
The hour had now come when friends visible and invisible,
after a number of happy meetings in which pleasure and profit
were about equally balanced, must say farewell.
But the seance did not close without a most emphatic ex¬
pression, not only of willingness but desire, on the part of
Znippy to visit us again if ever his carriage should be found
coming this way, which I hope it will ere long.
On returning home next day, I mentioned the circumstance
of the spar to my wife. She said she distinctly remembered
seeing spar in the churchyard, as did also Mrs. Everitt; but
both.ladies affirm they neither handled it, nor brought away
the smallest particle.
About a week afterwards, I drove over to Matlock, and
brought back a handful of spar which I took from the church¬
yard there. On comparing it with that brought by Znippy,
the two corresponded in a remarkable manner, for in both lots
were to be found small pieces of a substance called tufa, or
petrified clay ; which circumstance furnishes strong proof of
the fact that Znippy’s lot was taken from the bulk in the
churchyard, as I believe very few samples of spar gravel will
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
be found to contain a single grain of the article I have
mentioned.
About a fortnight ago, during a seance at Mr. Everitt’s resi¬
dence at Hendon, I asked Znippy from what part of the
churchyard he took the spar. He replied, “ From the front
walk abo've the steps.” Mrs. Everitt immediately said she did
not remember any steps in connection with the place, neither
did I, as, in consequence of the front gate being fast, I was
compelled to enter the churchyard from one side.
On my return home I drove to Matlock again, and found
that on my previous visit I had taken the spar from the front
walk above the steps, the exact spot mentioned by Znippy, so
that, looking at the facts I have named, and the characters of
the two ladies who were the only human beings connected
with the transaction, I unhesitatingly give it as my opinion
that the spar in question was carried by the spirit Znippy
from Matlock churchyard to the seance room in my brother’s
house.
On Tuesday, the 23rd June, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt left Derby
for Hendon, where I am happy to say they arrived in safety.
A volume might be written if all the details of their visit
had been minutely recorded. Herein I have given a brief and
truthful account of what took place.
It now only remains for me to give expression to the hope
that, for many years to come, they will be to other inquirers
what they have been to us, kind Christian teachers, in con¬
nection with whose labour of love, facts, having relation to
man’s immortality, have been most wonderfully illustrated, by
means of which illustration, in reference to this all-important
matter, we have been led up to a high condition of assurance,
and, at the same time, to one of corresponding peace and joy.
Helper, Derbyshire, Sept. 28th, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM m EAST LONDON.
NEW TRANCE MEDIUMS EOR PUBLIC SPEAKING.
Last Sunday evening the usual quarterly meeting of Spirit¬
ualists at the East end of London, was held at Mr. Cogman’s
rooms, 15, St. Peter-street, Mile-end-road, and there was a
large attendance. After tea, Mr. G-. P. Allan was unanimously
voted into the chair.
The Chairman said that they had met that day to do honour
to Mr. Cogman, who was a veteran in the cause of Spiritualism,
and had done more to spread a knowledge of it in that part of
London than anybody else. He was sorry there was no organ¬
ised society in that neighbourhood to strengthen Mr. Cogman’s
hands in his work. He should be glad if some of the listeners
present would state their experiences in Spiritualism, and
perhaps some of the trance mediums present might say a few
words under the influence of the spirits.
WESLEYANISM AND SPIRITUALISM COMPARED.
Mr. Jennison said that when he first began to inquire into
Spiritualism, and came to listen to one of Mr. Cogman’s trance
lectures he did not think much of the address, but after attend¬
ing a few times he saw that the addresses were of much higher
character than ordinary sermons; gradually he had gained a
knowledge of Spiritualism which had made him happier, and
taken away the fear of death. He was a medium himself;
sometimes the spirits signalled to him by tapping him on
different parts of the head, and sometimes while Mr. Cogman
was speaking he was made to say “ Hear, hear,” involuntarily,
and his hands were occasionally moved to applaud before he
knew it. He had imbibed Wesleyanism from his youth up¬
wards, in consequence of the strict teachings of his father and
mother, and he went very regularly to St. George’s Chapel.
Still, he saw that in that sect the spirit had been lost, and the
letter was the thing, also that the preaching had no useful end
and did not tend to the advancement of the listeners. Fine
clothes and handsome books were plentiful, but the spirit was
gone. He attended one of Mrs. Main’s seances, and a Clair¬
voyant there described his mother most accurately, though not
a soul in the room had ever seen him before, and that led him
to follow up his inquiries into the subject of Spiritualism.
POWERFUL PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The Chairman said that from his earliest infancy he had
been associated with churches and chapels, and had been much
engaged in Sunday-schools. He was engaged thus at St.
Stephen’s, Spitalfields, but after he became acquainted with
Spiritualism,he felt compelled not to go to any churches, though
this was not the case with all Spiritualists; in fact, in the
Romish Church they have spirit manifestations, and the
priests taught that those which came to themselves were good,
but the others could not be relied upon. At his brother’s
funeral in Ramsgate he had a strong impression that his
brother was not dead in the coffin, but standing by his side.
Afterwards he had a copy of The Medium put into his hands;
he read it with interest, and began to attend seances at
15, Southampton-row. He was further induced to do this
because he found that he was making no progress in the
churches, and the preachers could tell him nothing definite
about the future life. At the seances with Mr. Herne over Mr.
Burns’s shop, Mrs. Berry, Mr. Andrews, Mr. Ellis, and Dr.
Dixon were frequent attendants. The spirits gave him the
three initials of his departed brother correctly, also the name
of a little girl of his—Jane. Once he saw the table run right
across the room, and knock over Mr. Andrews, chair and all.
On another occasion, in the light, the table took a horizontal
position in the air, and began to spin rapidly; the medium was
touching it, still about B61bs. was the utmost force a man
could exert continuously, and half-a-horse power was certainly
necessary to spin that table with the motion it had. He
noticed |that one of the mediums was going into a trance, so
would not conclude his narrative.
MISS eagar’s trance MEDIUMSHIP.
Miss Eagar, under spirit control, said—Spiritualists 1 Bro¬
thers and sisters 1 We have great pleasure in seeing you here,
and in coming to meet you from the border land with words
of truth and light upon our lips, to give you words which
shall cheer you on your path till you reach the other side.
Thank your Father, the God of all, that He hath permitted
this to be, that He hath allowed us to give you proof that
there is a hereafter, when the spirit has thrown off its mortal
coil, and soars away in freedom to the realms where truth and
love for ever dwell. Thank Him for giving you something
which shall raise you and expand your intellects, and that He
has placed before that truth, which always awaits those who
seek it. These are not mysteries hidden from mortal man,
but truths to be examined by those intellects which God gave
you to use to their utmost limits, and which you disuse only
to your own suffering. You should use them to bless your
fellow-man, and to lead him up the path of progress—
Living love and living bread
Are given now to earth
By some of those ye deemed as dead,
Who’ve passed the second birth,
"Who’ve cast aside their mortal frame,
And soar in realms so bright;
They ever come to aspirants
Who long for truth and light.
MISS YOUNG’S TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
Miss Young was then entranced, and said—Oh, wisdom 1
where art thou? Oh, truth ! where shall we gather you ? Oh,
love ! where shall we pluck thy flowers ? Can we pluck from
the human fields of this great city the flowers for which men
and women are seeking ? These fields are covered with a dark
veil, which we cannot penetrate. Oh, brothers and sisters,
we come from the land of spirits—for we are disembodied men
and women—we come to greet you from the other side; we
wish to pluck flowers for you, and we bring them from beyond
the grave, from beyond the veil which men have thrown over
the grave, and which was not there in bygone days. That
veil is full of holes, and it smells stinking to the spirits ; your
garments are full of holes, because they belonged to your fore¬
fathers. We will lead you beyond books to the fount of all
wisdom. The morn hath only begun to dawn upon you, but
the beams of the rising sun are sparkling in the twilight.
The spirits say, Away with the lying dogmas which man has
taught you, and in your own homesteads receive light from
above. In the holy realms of spiritual intercourse, seek the
Lord in your own homes. Truth is now written upon the
portals of your little cottage, and now you have evidence
from the lips of angels that those you loved on earth
still live, and that there is no death. Live purely, but there
is none good save One—the All-wise Wisdom. Let these
truths be known throughout this dark Babylon, where the
people sit in pews, and get no spiritual food; you have the
spirit within you and about you, so tell them where to go and
what to do. We thank our friend who is doing so great a work
in this neighbourhood, we thank him for this medium, for he
gave this one to our use—
The flowers are fading now,
The summer diej away,
Yet winter with his hoary age,
Brings light within the clay.
With that light within thy dwelling
You all shall happy be,
’Twill break thy chains of bondage,
And teach thee to be free.
Oct. 2, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
That light will beam on thee so fair,
’Twill make thy spirit bright,
And help to guide thee upwards, where
There shall be no more night.
OBJECTIONS TO SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Palmer said that he was a disbeliever in Spiritualism,
and an orthodox member of the Christian Church; he was
inquiring for truth, and at present Spiritualism seemed to he
opposed to everything he had been taught from his youth
upwards. He accepted the Bible as the guide of his life, and
as long as he held that book to be true, he could not believe
in Spiritualism, at least such was his opinion ; he was only a
beginner, so might be mistaken. He was at a discussion at the
West Had on the previous Wednesday, where the subject was
"Is Spiritualism opposed to the New Testament?” but the
speakers did not come to any very definite conclusion on the
point. Although he liked what the two trance mediums had
said, they did not appear to recognise more than the Father,
the one God—(Hear, hear)—so he looked upon Spiritualists as
Unitarians. They seemed to ignore God the Son, and to look
upon Him only as a good man—one of the best of mediums.
He looked upon Him as something more, assuming the Scrip¬
tures to be true, and the spirits must give some proof of their
own truthfulness, before their sayings could be accepted in
preference. He wanted to know from the spirits whether an
atonement was made for the human race upon Calvary or not ?
Miss Young, still entranced, said that spirits and Spiritual¬
ists did not condemn the Bible ; they accepted the good por¬
tions of it, and threw the bad away. Who controlled Moses,
and told him that the Great Spirit needed the sacrifice of a
ram or bull at eventide ? Did they think that the Great Father
of all cared for the sacrifice of any living thing ? God was
not a personified being, and they would never see Him any
more than they saw Him at present, and the sacrifice on
Calvary was not an atonement for the sins of the people.
Jesus nobly sacrificed Himself for the truth’s sake.
MISS KEEVES’ TBANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
Miss Reeves passed into the trance state, and said that Jesus
never uttered a dogma, and was not responsible for the dog¬
mas which men had invented in His name ; He taught from
the little things of every-day life, as He passed up and down
the highways and the by-ways of the land. If his teachings had
been practised, instead of being buried beneath the dogmas of
men, there would not now be thousands in England houseless,
and homeless, and shoeless. He said, " The works I do, ye
shall do also,” and "These signs shall follow they that
believe;” but where were the promised signs to be found
except among Spiritualists? If people would follow out the
teachings in the Bible, .nstead of saying every Sunday that
they were "miserable sinners,'’—perhaps because they had
been backbiting their neighbours all through the week—it
would be better for the world. There were six versions of the
Bible at present in the British Museum Library, all differing
from each other, and men were now revising it again; which
of these was the " Word of God ? ” They should do more
good works ; they should cheer their fellow labourers on their
journey—
You can chant in happy measure,
As they slowly pass along;
Though they may forget the singer,
They will not forget the song.
If you cannot, in the conflict,
Prove yourself a soldier true,
Thinking, midst the fire and thunder,
There’s no work for you to do,
You may walk among the fallen,
Where the field is running red ;
You may bear away the wounded,
You may cover up the dead.
Never wish to shrink the battle,
Do not fear to do and dare;
If you want a field of labour,
You can find it everywhere.
Mr. Palmer remarked that he was delighted with what the
trance mediums had said, and their teachings were those of
Jesus Christ, from whom they seemed to have gone away.
They seemed to have accepted just what the old Greeks ac¬
cepted, namely, the teachings of nature.
The Chairman—Would it not be a good thing if some of
the bishops of the Church of England could speak like our
trance mediums ?
ME. WEBSTEE’s TEANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Webster, who was out in the passage, the rooms being
so crowded that he could not get in, then passed into the
trance state, and addressed the listeners through the doorway.
After the communicating spirit had made a few exceedingly
free remarks about the clergy,
The Chairman said—Do you mind telling us who you are?
The Spirit—No; I don’t. I was known, while in the body,
as " drunken Tom.” Now I’m Perfessor Wilson.
The Chairman—Where did you live ?
The Spirit—In a model lodging-house, opposite the " Bird¬
cage,” Spitalfields.
The Chairman—What date was that ?
The Spirit—I’m told—mind I don’t knowmuchabout dates,
so I won’t be answerable—I’m told it was in 1801.
PEOFESSOE WILSON CONFOUNDS A CLEEICAL GENTLEMAN.
The Chairman—How did you first meet your medium ?
The Spirit—Well, after I left the body I didn’t want to rise
any higher or improve myself. I stuck to my old haunts in
Whitechapel, and one night I went into a celebrated herb shop,
which you people here know very well, where they held seances,
and I saw other spirits controlling mediums. There was a
man there with a tremendous white handkerchief round his
neck, and he wanted to test the spirits talking through this
medium, to see if they were the persons they said they were.
So I says to the spirits, " I’m the right man for him,” and
through the medium I says, " You’re a minister of the Gospel
and won’t do nothing wrong. P’rhaps you’d better wait for a
test till next week.” “ No,” says he, " you might go and find
out who I am, and learn something about me before then, I
want it now.” " Oh, do you? ” says I; " Well, when you go
home, call in at the bottom of the house and ask how Caroline
is 1 ” He sang out, " Oh my (he used a big word there,
he did !), how did you know that ? ” (Laughter.) That’s a fact,
and you can hear all about it at the herb shop. So you see he
had better have waited a week, and then perhaps nobody would
have been there to hear it.
A Voice—How did you get the name of Professor Wilson ?
The Spirit—Thus. There’s two or three spirits uses this
medium, and we have to make a distinction in our work. A
coloured spirit uses the medium up to the brain, and when he
gets there, then I steps in and pour into the brain, and tell
the people listening what they are fit for. That’s why the
other spirits calls me " the Perfessor.” I can’t say I deserve
it. (Laughter.) When I lived in Spitalfields people used to
say to each other, " Open your shoulders, Jack, pour it down,
and you’ll grow a grey-headed old man.” Science now has
taught you better than that.
The Chairman—You don’t believe in preachers ?
The Spirit—I don’t blame them. You put them in the
position, and they take advantage of it.
SPEAKING IN UNKNOWN TONGUES.
Two of the ’Miss Eagar’s and Mr. Cogman were here con¬
trolled to talk to each other in a fluent and dignified way in
several unknown tongues. At last an Indian spirit controlled
two of them to speak partly in his own tongue, and partly in
a mixture of French and Italian, none of which languages do
the mediums know in their normal state.
Mr. Cogman told the listeners that one night a gentleman
connected with Parliament for many years, came there and
recognised the Indian language, which he could speak himself,
—it was the first good test he had had in Spiritualism; he
said that he had been among the people, and that they were
of a low order. He (Mr. Cogman) had been made to speak
the language a long time previously, but did not know what it
was till the gentleman came. The spirits made him speak
four or five different languages.
OEGANISATION OF SPIEITUALISTS IN EAST LONDON.
Mr. T. Bly ton said that he thought that what had been heard
that evening, was ample proof of the good Mr. Cogman had
been doing in the district, and he thought that a society should
be formed around him, for without co-operation nothing could
be done effectually. He would move that in the opinion of
that meeting a local association should be formed in the
district. ,
This was seconded, and carried.
Mr. Cogman said that a straggling audience attended the
meetings there on Sundays and other days ; the people came
from all parts of London; there were also some regular atten¬
dants. Many of them forgot to subscribe anything towards
the expenses, which were so much above the receipts that he
had been obliged to give notice to quit, and unless Spiritualists
took the matter up, the establishment would be broken up
at Christmas. Sometimes he had let the upper part of the
house, but three cr four days afterwards, when they discovered
166
SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
that he was connected with His Satanic Majesty, they took up
their beds and walked, and that too with great celerity. He
did not say it by way of complaint, but their working upon
such insufficient means had not only been hard upon himself,
but upon his wife ; it was almost beyond her strength.
Mr. Blyton then took down the names of a provisional com¬
mittee to form an association. The committee consisted of
Mr. G. P. Allan, Mr. J. W. Whitby, Mr. James Young, Mr. R.
Oogman, Mr. George Parsons, Mr. William Marsh, and Miss
Young. Several persons who could not join or attend the
meetings of the proposed association, put their names down
as subscribers to its funds. Still, all the support guaranteed
so. far was inadequate.
Trance lectures by Mr. Cogman, and one or more other
mediums who may chance to be present, are given every Sun¬
day evening at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, at seven o’clock,
admission free, but voluntary contributions received. Omni¬
buses from the City to Mile-end-road pass the end of the
street.
THE COMING LECTURE SEASON.
Mrs. Tappan has been engaged to lecture at the
Cavendish Rooms on Sunday evenings, from the end of
this month, throughout the winter, until June next, by
the committee which so successfully managed the series
of lectures last winter that at the close they had a
balance of subscriptions in hand after all the expenses
had been paid. Did it never occur to this committee
that it might widen its scope of action by taking the
broader title of “ The Spiritualists’ Public Lecture
Committee,” and bring all our best speakers under
the notice of residents in other parts of London than
Regent-street and the surrounding district? For instance,
it is always more difficult to keep up a full attendance
during a long series of meetings to hear one particular
speaker than it is when variety is provided; and if
Mrs. Tappan now and then lectured at Brixton, Ral¬
ston, Westbourne-grove, and other places, whilst on
those evenings rising trance or normal speakers made
their powers known from the permanent platform at the
Cavendish Rooms, everybody—lecturers, committee,
and listeners—would probably be pleased with the
arrangement. If three halls, in different parts of
London, were kept regularly open by the National
Association, or anybody else, there is scarcely a doubt
but that local Spiritualists, however poor they might be,
could easily keep the platforms occupied, because there
are so many excellent non-professional trance and normal
speakers in our midst who will cheerfully volunteer
their services. On other occasions local contributions
and subscriptions at the doors will do all that is
necessary. Each neighbourhood ought to be well
placarded with bills, and if the meetings were held
regularly, one permanent placard would do all through
the season for each district, and these placards the
National Association might probably supply without
charge, for the sake of doing good to the movement,
and advertising itself. These matters might be carefully
thought over by those who have the actual responsibility,
but there seems little doubt that by co-operation the
public might be taught weekly from three different
permanent platforms, at not so very much more expense
than from one,* and that, in addition, plenty of variety
would be provided for the listeners in all the districts.
At present Mr. Cogman, almost single-handed,
is keeping on very good Sunday evening meetings, on
shamefully small support for the good he has done and
is doing for the cause. Our best workers are little
known, because they are of necessity of such a nature
that they parade neither their work nor their troubles,
and one of these—perhaps the most deserving of all—
is Mr. Cogman, who will have to cease his long-con¬
tinued labours in East London, unless more contribu¬
tions are sent him; he is working in a poor district,
and receives scarcely any subscriptions from outside it.
Even now, when he is on the point of giving up the
duty, for want of the very small balance of necessary
support, he says little or nothing about it himself, and
these statements are now published entirely without
his knowledge or solicitation.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS FOR SPIRITUALISTS.
The Offices Committee of the National Association
has the responsible duty of seeking for suitable pre¬
mises in which the business of the organisation may be
carried on. The Association is a new one, and although
the honorary secretaries do such a very large amount
of work for it in a most efficient manner, it has been
found to be necessary to engage an assistant secretary,
consequently, if in addition to this permanent expense
that of rent of offices is added, it will tell upon the
funds of such a young society. Did it ever occur to
the Offices Committee that it might be the means of
finding premises, and at the same time adding to the in¬
come of the Association ? Tenants take halls in Lon¬
don, with private house or apartments attached ; they
live in the latter, and derive a permanent income by
letting the former for public purposes. "Why should
not the Offices Committee advertise for the leases of
public halls, and let the present lessees of th e Cavendish
Rooms, Quebec Institute, Lawson’s Rooms, and Cleve¬
land Hall, know that they are ready to enter into
negotiations for the same, whenever any of the present
holders may desire to part with them ? They might,
perhaps, find one obtainable at once, to begin with,
and even should they miscalculate, they would probably
at the worst only have to go without profit, whilst the
other plan of renting small offices would certainly be
a dead weight on the income of the Association. We
have been told that the Bow and Bromley Institute
gets a large public building in this way for its own
purposes, and clears all the rent by letting it at other
times. The more buildings the National Association
can get into its hands on this system the better.
Mrs. E. Corner (Florence Cook) and Miss Corner are now
at Nieder Walluf, near Wiesbaden, Germany, on a visit to
Prince Wittgenstein. Mr. Crookes accompanied them as far
as Cologne, where they were met by Prince Wittgenstein and
Mr. and Mrs. Gustave de Yeh.
Mr. Morse’s Farewell Benefit Soiree.—This soiree
of the metropolitan friends of Mr. J. J. Morse will be held in
the Co-operative Institute (late Princess’s Concert Rooms), 55,
Castle-street, Oxford-street, W., next Thursday evening.
Refreshments will be served during the early part of the even¬
ing, and selections of vocal and instrumental music, in¬
terspersed with a few speeches, will occupy the remainder of
the time. The British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists is using its influence to increase the attendance,
and a circular it has issued to its members, signed by Mr.
Algernon Joy, says:—“ Mr. Morse has, during his public
career as one of our best inspirational speaker's, so endeared
himself to Spiritualists of every class, that the forthcoming
soiree can scarcely be otherwise than a great success. But,
considering its more immediate object—to confer on Mr.
Morse a substantial pecuniary benefit on his departure for the
American continent, and to cheer him in the work now more
immediately before him—it is strongly hoped that his friends
will assemble in greater numbers than on any previous
occasion, and give him an unmistakable proof of their warm
and sincere regard. To increase the proceeds from the soiree,
donations are respectfully invited, and will be acknowledged
in the Spiritualist papers.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
Oct. 2, 1874.
LIFE AND ITS LAWS FROM A SWEDENBORG!AN
POINT OF YIEW.
NO. II.
By William Oxley.
The harden of my former communication was to prove that
Swedenborg is a “ philosopher of spirit,” and that as the
principles of geometry, contained in Euclid’s elements, com¬
prehend the measures, weights, and principles of the physical
universe, and enable us to advance from the known to the
unknown, and to resolve any problem involving distances,
densities, or the relationship of all objects to each other, so
the teachings of Swedenborg set forth all the principles, laws,
and modes of action in the spiritual universe. Further, I am
bold to affirm that a knowledge of the principles which he
has enunciated will enable us to define, with certitude, all
the phenomena pertaining either to the physical or spiritual
worlds.
The term “ world ” is used both in reference to the earth
and also to the spheres, but the ideas are different in their ap¬
plication. The earth is a solid material sphere, the spiritual
universe is non-material, yet spherical in form, substantial,
but not material, so that what is true of the one is true of the
other, namely, that the world of earth is the residence of
mortal human beings, while the world of spirit is the resi¬
dence of immortal human beings.
Assuming the continuance and consciousness of the in¬
dividuality, it follows, that there must be locality, or some¬
thing analogous thereto. Locality involves residence, residence
involves surroundings, and it is the character of these latter
that determine the quality and status of the individual human
spirit. These surroundings are “ objective,” and are an exact
representation of the thoughts and affections of the individual
and collective spirits who make them, and who are the cause
or causes of the phenomena by which they are surrounded.
The question now is how, or by what means, are these objects
produced ? To prevent misapprehension, it is well to state
that the philosophy of which we are now treating, teaches
that the “substances” which compose the human spirit and
the world in which it has its proper life and location, and the
substances which compose the human body and the world in
which it has its life and location, are quite distinct and totally
unlike each other; there is nothing in common to each except
that somewhat, which Swedenborgians use the word “ cor¬
respondence ” to express.
As to what spirit or spiritual substance actually is in itself
there is no means of knowing till the spirit is released from
its mortal envelope, and comes into direct contact with its
own proper and native element. Possibly all we can know, short
of actual experience, is, that spirit is substantial without being
material. This we arrive at by the following process of rea¬
soning. We know that there are such things as thoughts and
affections, because we experience them; to be “things,” they
must exist or have an existence; there can be no existence
without subsistence, or somewhat in which these can subsist
and exist. Of necessity, these must be first substantive before
they can be objective ; they become objective when they as¬
sume a form outside the spirit or spirits in which they first
were substantive as thoughts and affections.
This mode of induction leads us to first principles. Where
we come into contact with the “ cause” world, or, for the sake
of definition, with the “ spiritual” world, I think it may be
allowed me to affirm that we could have no idea or conscious¬
ness of individuality were it not for objective phenomena, or
appearances outside of ourselves ; for, like as the sun’s rays,
passing through space, would be lost without objects in space
to react and reflect those rays; so the afflux of life from its
origin and centre would be lost and purposeless were not
objects made or created to react and reflect that life. It is
the same, only in a lesser degree, with the life animating the
human spirit; it flows through the created spirit, and is re¬
acted and reflected by the objects which that spirit has formed
out of the substances proper to its own sphere.
This view assumes one centre of life, which first principle
is unknown and unapproachable as to its actuality, but for the
sake of definition we call it Deity. This first Form is the
inmost of all organised forms of recipient life, and therefore
indestructible, notwithstanding appearances to the contrary.
The difference between the organised forms of recipient life is
this, viz., that the human spirit retains its conscious
individuality, whilst all other forms lower than the human,
are dissipated at death. It is the possession of the faculty of
intelligence which places man at the head of creation. This
faculty of intelligence is a purely spiritual power, and, as
such, exists above and independent of matter, which is proved
beyond cavil or dispute by all the phases of modern Spiritual¬
istic phenomena. There is now no fact more clearly demon¬
strated to human appreciation, than that of human immor¬
tality, or a continuation of conscious individuality beyond
the grave. And more than this, that death is only relative
and not absolute, which means that it has only a relation to
that part of us which is material, but which in no wise affects
the other part that is now natural or spiritual.
The fact of human existence in spirit form apart from
matter, being established, it is seen at once that such existence
could not be, or continue to be, without subjection to law and
order, and then there arises in the mind a desire to know the
conditions under which the future conscious individuality is
maintained. Revelation here comes to our aid, and we find
that this is effected by spirits, from spiritual sources, and by
them is made known to us so far as we are able to receive and
comprehend, the laws under which they live and have their
being. All the communicating spirits admit that they are only
mediums, acting under the guidance and inspiration of
intelligences higher than themselves; this fact proves the
existence of different orders of spiritual beings, and that those
whose intelligence is most developed, are the more powerful,
and inhabit spheres of a higher order (and doubtless with
different conditions of existence), than those who are used as
intermediates, and thus modify the instruction, so as to adopt
it to our comprehension, who live on this, the lowest plane of
intelligent conscious existence.
The philosophy, or science of spiritual law, reveals to us this
fact, that the flow of life, or the vital force, does not stop with
or in man, but that it is continued through him, and assumes the
appearances of which the animal, vegetable, and mineral king¬
doms are composed. The object of this paper is to show in
some measure the connection existing between the human
being and all ^objects outside him. It will be seen that all
objects cognisable to us may be ranged under these three great
general divisions; the two first being active, and the last
passive forms of life.
If this principle of philosophy be true—that all existing,
animate, and inanimate forms are disposed of in one of the
three above-enumerated general divisions—it follows that there
must be in man a*“Trine ” corresponding to the phenomena
of nature, or that which is external to him.
Viewing man objectively, we see him a composite being; his
external made up of substances common upon the earth on
which he lives. This is acted upon and made subservient to
an internal force or power which we define as “Soul,” and
unless it can be demonstrated that these two, body and soul,
are self-made, then we must admit that there must be a still
more interior force or power, this we designate “ spirit,” or
animating principle of life. As a resultant, we have in one
human being a Trine—spirit, soul, and body—forming one
man.
Viewing man “ subjectively,” we see him again a composite
being, with a “ Trine” of a different order, to express which
words conveying different ideas have to be used. This “ Trine ”
is composed of the “ will” faculty or principle, under which is
classed all emotions, affections, desires, and incentives to
action; then, the ‘ * intellectual ” faculty or principle, this is
used to express all that he can think or reflect upon, and is
that by which he acquires knowledge and understanding. The
activity of these two in combination is shown by actions, deeds,
or works, and which are more or less fixed, or durable, accord¬
ing to the end desired or attained. So that viewed in either
light, or from either standpoint, we find the evidence of this
philosophical principle to be so far satisfactory and demon¬
strable. All animals are the expressive outward forms, which
have their correlation with the affections of the human will.
Vegetables stand in a similar relation to the human intel¬
lectual faculty, and minerals the same to the human operative
faculty.
From the above I trust it has been shown that there is a
correspondence in general between that which exists in the
human being and that which exists outside of him in nature.
If this can be admitted, then, I propose at a future time to
treat of the specific application of this law, and to show that
animals, divided as they are into the elephantine, equine,
bovine, leonine, feline, and canine, and other species, are the
actual phenomenal expressions of qualities which have their
prototype in the human being; the same with vegetables and
minerals, specific illustrations of which will follow.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, Aug. 18,1874.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 2, 1874.
araTOspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
BUIES OE IIEE.
Sib,—In your issue of the 11th inst., under the heading of
“ Organisation of Spiritualists at Bishop Auckland,” you say
the members of the Council are Mr. B. Fawcett, Mrs. Fawcett,
Mr. T. Fawcett, Miss Fawcett, &o. I beg to inform you that
Mr. B. Fawcett, Mrs. Fawcett, and Miss Fawcett tendered their
resignation as members of the above organisation two months
ago, and since then have not been in any way identified with
any organisation whatever : we thought it best to be free,
working individually and in harmony with all who seek the
truth, as we have failed as yet to see any good resulting
from any such organisation. We, as a working family, have
not been able to contribute any large amount of money to
the cause of Spiritualism, yet we feel thankful that we have
been able to do a little by putting to a good purpose those
medial and other gifts which God has given us,—gifts
which cannot be bought by gold or silver. It has been
our aim in using these gifts for the advancement of Spiritualism,
always to love our neighbours as ourselves, and do to all men
as we would they should do unto us; to be true and just in
all our dealings, to bear no malice nor hatred to any one, to
keep our tongues from lying and slandering, and to follow the
example of Him who gave to us the 11th commandment, “ See
that you love one another.” If every Spiritualist would follow
this example, truth and justice would wave the victor’s palm.
I am sorry to take up so much of your valuable paper—too
valuable for the ignorant readers of The Medium—but for the
sake of right, I would thank you to insert the above in your
next issue. Bobebt Fawcett.
Waldron-street, Bishop Auckland.
A PSTCHOMETBIC PHENOMENON?*
Sib, — One Sabbath morning, while walking along the
“ Links ” at Leith, I could not but admire the aspect of Edin¬
burgh’s miniature mountain, “ Arthur’s Seat.” It looked lovely
in the sunshine. On removing my eyes from it, I was surprised
that another hill, somewhat similar, was in my view. There
were two men in dark loose robes kneeling on the summit,
gazing steadfastly upward into the grey soft sky above them.
The backs of the figures were towards the city. I looked in silent
wonder on the scene. “ What can they be looking so earnestly
upwards for ? ” I thought. I could see but the sky or clouds,
and the figures remained kneeling. I entered the little church
at hand, still thinking of the vision, although such I knew it
not to have been, until the text of the preacher’s discourse was
read aloud. Then did I realise that I had been looking on the
disciples of the Lord Jesus after the ascension. The words are
these, ” And He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted
up His hands and blessed them, and it came to pass while He
blessed them, He was parted from them, and carried up into
heaven.” (Luke xxiii. 50.) Euphehia Black.
173, Leith-walk, Edinburgh,
6th September, 1874.
SPIEITUAL MEETINGS AT MILE-END.
Sib,—We desire to inform you that we have received a
donation from Mrs. Maltby of ten shillings for the support of
our public meetings, and Dr. Bogers, the veterinary surgeon,
drove up last evening, and left us one pound. This morning
I received one guinea from the National Association, per Mr.
Freeman. For all this we are truly grateful, as it will tend
to remove friction from our path and stimulate us to increase
our efforts.
Both my dear wife and myself desire to offer to you our most
sincere gratitude for the very kindly manner in which you
have taken part in advertising our meetings and assisting in
other ways, P. and H. Cogman.
A SPIRITUALIST PUBLIC BEADING-BOOM FOE LIVERPOOL.
Sib,—In order to supply a want among inquirers into
Spiritualism in this town, we intend to open, at our present
address, 126, West Derby-road, until more suitable premises
can be got, a progressive library and reading-room, which will
be open daily, where investigators may obtain information on
the subject, and procure literature relating to the movement.
The Spiritualist, Pioneer, Medium, and other organs can now
be had here, as well as at the bookstall, Islington. While the
Liverpool Psychological Society has been and is doing so much
good by its well-conducted public services, we hope to be able
to assist by throwing this mite into the movement.
The reading-room and other rooms can be used for seances.
Lectures might be delivered on mesmerism, phrenology, and
similar subjects. The library will be the principal feature,
and we hope will soon contain several hundred volumes of the
most advanced kind, dealing with the spirituality of man, and
the vexed question, “ If a man die, shall he live again ?” As
a matter of course, the number of books will depend upon the
increase of patronage. The bookstall will be well supplied
with tracts, pamphlets, books of every description, many of
which can be had the day after publishing in London.
Belying upon the hearty sympathy and co-operation of
local Spiritualists of all shades of opinion, we shall endeavour
to do our best to merit their approbation.
Jas. Coates, Secretary.
The circulation of The Spiritualist is rising fast.
We should be glad to receive and publish more items of
local news from friends in the provinces.
The adjourned discussion of the Marylebone Society on
“ National Association ” will take place at 6, Bland ford-street,
Baker-street, W., next Wednesday evening, at eight o’clock.
The Criterion, a Hull periodical, cleverly edited, recently
published some interesting particulars about the mediumship
of Louise Lateau.
Most of the spiritual periodicals agree very well with
each other. The Pioneer, Christian Spiritualist, and Spirit~
ualist help each other all they can, and advertise one another
without charge; one journal will not do the same even on
payment, and is animated by a different spirit, but that is not
the fault of the rest.
“London Society” on Spiritualism.—The novel,
“ Open Sesame,” now appearing in London Society, and
written by the editress of that magazine, Mrs. Boss-Church,
is still full of descriptions of spiritual phenomena; indeed,
the number issued this week gives an account of some table
manifestations. Mrs. Boss-Church is doing much to make
the general public acquainted with the facts of Spiritualism.
Spiritualism in Bochdale.—A correspondent says :—
“ In Bochdale we seem at present to be in a very disorgan¬
ised state. The society broke up some months ago, and I
think there are about four or five private circles which are still
sitting ; but I am not aware that we have been able to develops
a speaking medium at any of them as yet, which is almost
enough to damp our ardour in the cause.”
The Christian Spiritualist has been improved in appear¬
ance since Dr. Sexton has taken it in hand, and it contains
some interesting articles this month, especially one on
“ Spiritualistic Philosophy in America.” Dr. Sexton says
that unless he is more frequently engaged as a lecturer on
Spiritualism he shall be reluctantly compelled to abandon
that work, but for the next three months he will be doing his
best in that way in the North of England and in Scotland.
It is to be hoped he will be well supported. His address is
86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have a letter from Mr. N. Kilburn, to the effect that he con¬
sidered the matters of which he spoke to Mr. Everitt as private,
and that perhaps Mr. Everitt is right as to the dates. The letter
was published in The Medium last week. Had Mr. Everitt kept
silence, unjust obloquy would have rested upon the wrong
person.
F. W. W.—Leicester: Your letter permits no defence, since you
give neither your own name to the public, nor the name and
address of the alleged prior inventor; we shall be glad to print it
if you supply these deficiencies, so that he or the public can
verify the statements, which ought not be published unless
substantiated. Address letters to the Editor.
B.—You say you have no interest in the personal matter, but there
is a public side to the question. Let about £4,000 of public
capital be nearly all directed so as to injure you for five years,
and you, single-handed, bear up against the enormous stream as
best you can in silence for three of those years, for the sake of
peace, you might then think there was some heroism in so doing.
Further, if after the lapse of five years, you first made a great
noise by letting the public know what they were unconsciously
doing, perhaps you might think your grievance a sufficiently
substantial one to deserve sympathy. Or do you look upon the
movement as a Juggernaut Oar, and take no interest in the
individuals who go under its wheels, provided it moves along ?
It is not the man but the system with which there is variance.
Oct. 2, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Next week we shall give some particulars about Spirit¬
ualism in Leigh, South Lancashire.
Dr. Q-. Sexton will deliver an address at Mr. Morse’s
farewell soiree on Thursday next. Mrs. Tappan is also expected
to be present.
Psychic Studies, Leipzig, which is ably edited by M.
Aksakof, is half filled every month with articles translated
from The Spiritualist, so that the best contributors to this
journal have another body of readers in Germany.
Theological Scarecrows.—“Is Spiritualism diaboli¬
cal?” Oar Protestant contemporary, the Rock, has quite
made up its mind on this question. After quoting a descrip¬
tion of Miss A. E. Fay’s entertainment, it notices with ap¬
proval the opinion of a gentleman who styles her the “ Python¬
ess.” With respect to the recent movement among Spirit¬
ualists for the improvement of spirits admitted to be evil, it
says—Spiritists are not the only people who find the ways of
sin smooth enough at first, but who ere long discover that he
is a hard master to whom they have sold themselves. It seems
to have been Satan’s policy to accustom his wretched dupes
to this evil in its incipient stages of mesmerism, table-turn¬
ing, and the planchette, which many have practised—not in¬
deed without some qualms of conscience—but without a
notion of the heinousness of the crime they were committing,
and wholly unaware of the terrible abyss on the brink of
which they were standing. But the taste once acquired
for “phenomena” or “ manifestations”—and there is a
weird fascination about these things—and when the miserable
victims have become all but hopelessly entangled in the snare,
then it is that the arch deceiver begins to make them under¬
stand the true character of the service in which they have
enlisted. Then it is that ceasing to act the part of the
obsequious slave, he shows himself the cruel and imperious
lord. So, likewise, with the host of foul spirits that own him
as their prince, and who, not caring to prolong their first
pretence of an errand of mercy,*now assert their mischevious
and malignant nature by acts of petty tyranny and constant
annoyance—doubtless but a foretaste of still more frightful
visitations yet to come. Things have indeed reached a pass
that has compelled some of the most ardent votaries of the
movement to talk of reviving ancient forms of exorcism that
are said to have existed in the Church of England ! —^Sussex
Daily News.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private -Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41
Bernard-street, RusseU-square. Private Seances attended,
Mrs. Woodforde is on a visit in Leicestershire and will be absent
some weeks. Letters addressed as above will be forwarded.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from. Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington. •
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds'-bush
W Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 861, Sixth Av., New'York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. ReGistbr your Letters.
QBALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Mon»y refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 8s.; small size, Is,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder,-Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, 8.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fi'z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rcss-Church, Mrs. (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Oolville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Beathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-read, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J,, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Hichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D., 44, Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlbam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., Waterloo Hotel, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cresceht, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bays water, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &e., 17, Trafalgar-road, 01dKent-rd., 8.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Etq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or .Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Niedef Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummontou, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev.J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Qr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices—M, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. iSec,—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
IIP i$
»06^2^18^?
>• EYIDENCE-TJi^fr SPIRITUkLl'SM DESERYES* i
• ‘ * ^INYESTIGS.TION.' 1 U
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not’a few periodicals.
The London DialecticaU Society, Adain-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock'/'Bart., MrP., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena, r. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:— 1
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq.^F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E. ;■ H. R. Fox Bourne,' Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq.,;M:D!; hJohn'Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D.iH. Dyte;-James Edmunds,’.Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillief,.Esq.;.Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss,.Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E-; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.-
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were'subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq.,' Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W.H. Swepsfon,;Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace,Esq.,.F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring an to the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with "the’evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs..Longmans.. Among other things this Committee reported:—
1. That sounds of a very - varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to.the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance. I • l , ......
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, orl adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often’ occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums.- AH . were members' of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable, integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ . .  I
HOYT TO FORM' SPIRIT^CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit .circles in
their own homes," with’no Spiritualist or professional medium ’ present.
Should’no results be obtained onwthe first occasion, try again with other
sifters."' OneYti. more.persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly'every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody, shaH enter it, and that there
shall be.ho interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
. 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact , with its top, surface. , Whether the hands
touch each other or not is.'usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to copveniently^accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters .breaks‘the circle by; leaving the,table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays.fthe manifestations. .-
3. Before the sitting begins/place some pointed lead-pencUs and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table/to write down any communica¬
tions that may be" obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of .harmony tends, to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence;
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is wpll to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
pature. A prayerful,, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near. ] -
■ 6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is, often a feeling like
a .cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tHtings or raps. ■
' 7. When motions of .the table or sounds are produced freely, to. avoid
confusion, let- one person -only speak; and talk to. the table as to an
intelligent being. Let hjm tell the. table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak thelqtters’.of; .the, alphabet slowly,’ wdll, ypu signalevery time I come
to the letter you want,, and spell us out a. message ?’’■* Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
j 8. Afterwards the . question should be put, “Are .we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” , Probably some members of the
Circle will then be told; to .change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask,Who is the medium?" - When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
weU-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits, out of the body have aH the virtues and aU the faUmgs of spirits
in the body. .»I
1 9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature,.and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority, of onedia are ladies.'.— .
- The best mamfestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of.-the circle are strongly bound together by the affections,-and
are thoroughly Comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and slQnnk somewhat-from the lower mental influences ;of earth.
Family circles, with "no' strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the’first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
me’diumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE ‘ -Plb^EERjOF PROGRESS ”'. PRINTIKH AND
. ” . _ ; publishing Company, " ‘ l*
4, KINGSGAT&ftStREET, HOI®(3RNfKpN-DdN,'’W.O.
In the Printing Department every, arrangement'has ..been made for the'
prompt execution of all'.oMers. Printing"of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given. ‘' • - •
In the -Publishing- Department is* kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, RefJSrm and Miscellaneous boo’ks1 at whofSale'and
retail prices. London, and country agents, supplied with all "kinds tof-
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication;' "Terms:"-
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon-
application. if — 
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire-
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive* move¬
ments, should subscribe to
- THE “ PIONEER OF PR,OGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection mf Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions r of new and , choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per'annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
. «EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton,;“Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, -T. H. Noyes, Esq"., and others, together with full'
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information. > ■ ’ ,
ONE PENNY. '
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holbbrn;, Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into' Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &e.
AU communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,.
Holborn, W.CJ'
THE WONDER' OE THE AGE. ' JUST TSSUED."
mHE TWO
DISCOVERIES, .OR KEY TO PINE’S
SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key, not only unlocks the .abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science,-biit enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friend^*in 'spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of [the most intense
interest, received by ..this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
. BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp.; 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; ajsb _the.experiences.of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and;
experienced a happy entrance into lthe_ spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mpde.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public1
chools.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction. |
Dissatisfaction with’ Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What! is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
■* ‘Chapter II.—The Vital Principle...
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The - Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm—
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve "F.orce—Difference’ between the Gan¬
glionic and the "Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves— Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the 'Fis Kervosa—I he Soul
Force.
\ Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy, Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and’Nerve-aura may be Com-'
municated-—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial.
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
‘ Chapter IV.—Healing; ■
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of'
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the -Medium -of- Influence—Process without Contact—'
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous .Cures—The.Impartation of the Aura1
to Water,' &c.—Necessity of Passivity and - Benevolence—Concluding'
Remarks. '
London: J. Burns, 15,-Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for'the" Proprietor by Beveridge & Co./ at the Hqlborn Printjng
Works, Fullwood-’s Rents, High Holborn, in' the Parish of St. Andrew-!
ahovie-Bar and St. George -the -Martyr, London, and published by E.'.W*
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
