A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E££ OF THE £CIEffCE AND ETHI.G3 Of $PIF(ITUAjJ^M.
[REGISTEllED FOE THA^SMISSIOX ABEOAP.] • • -
No. 40. (VOL. III.—No, 1.)
LONDON :. NOV.' 15, 1872.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Contents,
Spiritualism and Anthropology... ... ... .... ... ... ...
iTes’t CJopditioqs . H:   
Eeiejjenb'ach’s Magnetic Flames . ...   ... ... *
PrivatesSeajicesii.'.,   • ... .... ... .;. ’
DitVieuMes besetting tlie Study of Mesmerism 1 .V,  i
‘Spiritualism in Dalston .   ... • ... ... fS .... ...
TbeiAritlirOpdlogicaijlnstitute ... ... ... • .v.-i
A Swedenborgian Minister on Spirits ..^r'’ ^ *v ': :
Poetry:-As'I Layela Thynkynge ... .'$&&*> ;
SfcsJohn’s Association of Spiritualists
„COFr§sfiQndeuce i-i-Trantik Mediumship; the Jeg.lotts'iesof
Gadon-Callbway’s Paper; Instinct and Experienced .-..
Spiriti|Silism in Australia , ...    ' ..y i.I. ...
Answ;^ss‘to Correspondents. ., ...  v ... ... ...
Para'^rophs :—Mills; Godfrey’s, Mediumship, 11 ;;Spiritualisr
" Pre'?s, 11: Death, 15‘;..Mfs''Gnppy’s'1Jiledinftts}iip, 15; BJr
Medimnship   ...'-i.- v.' ...
4
.5
-fi
7
;.8
•S)
n
12 j
121
if*
U
.15 '
i and the
. Bassett’s
ALSTON;,;ASSOCIATION( OF ENaljIRi’JiS,. INTO
: SPIRITPALISM, 74, Navarmo road, CaJelnni E'’ SeariQKS Are held
every Thursday; eyoping at 8 o’clock; ' and'a Eibra^y isdn cpurse m fomia-
tion for use ofiinietiilDerg.- - Prospectuses 'a.ndhEuleS on application to the
Secretary.; Suhscriptipn' per quarter in.:,'advance. Thos.'Blyxon,
.Secrefai,yi'&cV ”
TSS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL AND BUSINESS
CLAIEYCtAFTE AND TEST-MEDIljM,,from America, can be
consulted daily at 21, Keppel-strect, Eussell-square, W.O. Hours, .from
101 till .8. ■ Terms, 21s. ‘
TSS GODFREY, CURATITE MESMERIST AND
AT-!- EUBBEE. Clairvoyant ‘ Examination and complete Diagnosis,
.One Guinea. Mesmerising or Robbing,. One Guinea per week, and travelling,
; expenses. , k . ’ |
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by^ppointment, at 161, Hampstead-road-, N.W.'
TSS HUDSON, NoiiRiil' sClairvoyant and Prophetic
f Medium,' RECEIVES .VISITOES daiijffSundays excepted), from
Twelve till'. Six o’Ciock, at her Besidence, 17,t Castle-street, Wellsistreet,.:
Oxford-street.'' Terms,. Five Shillings each Visitpf. ;;),Privgte Parties also;
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling 'expenses.
E«
BIRD,' Builder, Honse-decorator, Plumber, and
I • Gasfitier, desires to. inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepheid’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Statiphv , ’Egtimates gWen for' every description of
work in the above branches|sNSP::T ' S -V r>'1 * iSpHR -
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERYER OF BIRDS,
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skihs, stags’heads,;
fox’sheads, shells, and corals in great variety. T!,e Spiritualist waA kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Fkanklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
A LADY desires Board and Residence in a Private
Family. Terms, £50 a year inclusive. Or she . would be willing,to
teach Music, Singing, French, or English, in part payment; Address X.Y.Z.,
1, Pembroke Villas, Augustus Road, Hammersmith.
- SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED. .
. , Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
■ QAl'lXA.!.—£200,000 IN 2()l>f000 SilARps/OP £1 EACH.
Head STREET And MaRSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
^Ciief EdHdOn^Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
AufixtSTUS FredBrick Rayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
• ‘ '-Dbctofsh-Commohs; London'; and Chaneellor of the Diocese of M&n-
ohetster..,.^ . ;
; Wilriaij GiyhBliGo,b'pLlEFB, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster,
London.' ^ f%' |
OfiARER^ OppnNHBXM (S. Oppenheim & Sous), Director of the Union Bank
,, qf Londq.n,_lAugtin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.‘
JyCHRiSTbpHBft- WEdifBr>fNv(Th6mson, Bonar .& Co.), Director of the Bank of
; Erfgjah(^j’.57^Q]^:fPrqad-street, London, E.O.
fpAMdifor .•y DR,. VlL.WAA{i'EARR,'F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
LBfomiey, Kent) ^ '
The system ’of 'Insurance' carried out by the “British Imperial 1’
/originallysdeyisefi l>y Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of 1 Somerset House, and
-adopled'.wit'h some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security,' Equity,, and Gonvonienee.
I ^’ "Security; because every With Profit, and. Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon ^English'. Government’ Securities, held in Trust, away from the
^control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (.80 pea‘, pent, of the whole premium) being shown by ihe
National'English Life Fable, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to he more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
'the; policy.
In Equity, because in the event, of an, Insurant failing to. continue the
payment of his premiums, onlysufficieht thereof is retained by the Gorpora-
tion^to ; profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was coyered.I®JfeAnsurance; the remainderheing returned to the Insurant. '
The amount returned varies according to the Table under-which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-l.alf and three-quarters of all the
pretaiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy,;and is made"payahie at three days’ sight. It can also he used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with-
- dra#n^'Without inyalidathjg the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance’ corporation,
LIMITED.
•. Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head OfficesJsBGANIA STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
'In§urAnces' against Loss OR Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporatihu upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will he
.’returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
P HOT O GRAPH S.
Prices, from 6s. per Dozen.
- M R. A. L. H END E R S O N,
£p OF 3-49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
; AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW: CROSS, S.E.
Photograplibr on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Settee Gazette
remarks—“ By aithorough knowledge of the natural llaws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties,of .well-selected cocoa, .Mr. Epps has provided our
•breakfast-tables with avdelicately-flayourgd .beverage-which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made -simply with Boiling Water of Milk. -
Eaph packet is; labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
' _ FIDELITY GUARANTEE:
I Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against,
loss by ihe Fraud; of Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
placesfof trust. '
The LqcaTGhMfnment Board have approved the. Policies oPthis •Corpora¬
tion as’ security for the Poor Law Officials.
Cliief OfficeS'for Guarantee.' |
20,.KING WILLIAM;STREET, LONDON, E.C. >:
*** Applications, invited - from' Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to adV for the.Corporation in unrepresented- localities.
British imperial life, and British
' NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS. ;
Applications for. Agencies to either of the above Corporations can he
..made to.C.W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices,-26, King William-street,,
E.C., from whom' Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all Other .information,
can he obtained.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—showing the
harmony of things Spiritual with things Material.
“The tone of th,e hook is exceedingly pure and good,”—Christian
Spiritualist. ,
*** A Listjpf Spiritual and Mesmeric works on application.
> London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1872.
Cjre Spmtualisf geixrspapr.
CHA.EGrE FOU AFYERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings.
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.'
2%e Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements,'because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers _desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenos.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a' column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the locbl newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SPIRITUALISM AND ANTHROPOLOGY.
The Anthropological Institute was founded for the
purpose of studying man as a science, and a little
paragraph about it in our last has brought forth the
following letter from Mr. H. G. Atkinson :—
i| the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—As a late Vice-President of the Anthropological In¬
stitute previous to the amalgamation, you will allow me to
say that, at my suggestion, and through my influence with
the president and founder of the society, the late Dr. Hunt,
we did appoint a committee for the investigation of the
case of the Davenport Brothers. The committee had several
sittings, and we arranged our tests, &c., but unfortunately
before the evening came on which the brothers were to pre¬
sent themselves, there came out some “ slashing ” articles
against Spiritualism in a leading paper, and Dr. Hunt got
quite frightened lest the Institute he had founded, and
which was the pride of his life, should be injured. In¬
deed, he so clearly exhibited fright that I quite pitied him.
The other members of the committee, from their undisguised
prejudices, were not in a more favourable condition for calm,
honest, and earnest investigation; indeed, those who investi¬
gate with prejudices are pretty sure to find the prejudices
confirmed. The result was that after one exhibition, they
voted, in spite of my protest, that nothing had been shown
worthy further notice; and that is the plain truth, which I
could not well state during the life of Dr. Hunt. Now it
seems to me that if Spiritualists desire any action on the part
of the Anthropologists, they should join the society, and
beard the lion in his den (Huxley), read papers, and be ready in
discussion to support one another, because'that is the real way
in which the society works, as a rule—by reading papers add
discussion. The first paper I would read should be on “ the
reception of new truths, and the special method adapted to
spiritual and psychological enquiries, and other correlated and
kindred matters ”—which the breadth of view taken in The
Spiritualist well illustrates. I think the phenomena, ranging
under the term Spiritualism, particularly as of objective Spiri¬
tualism, to be of most absorbing interest, and" to be of vital
importance in a scientific point of view, but that the facts
are at present in advance of the orthodox or accepted science
of the age. -We had a hard battle to get even anthropology, such
as it is, admitted as a science, and received within the magic
pircle of the British Association ; and it is still as much as we
can do to hold our own at the annual meetings. There is still
much prejudice against anthropology among the “ orthodox ”
clergy and others, as you may see by the Victoria Institute,
formed by members who left the old Anthropological Society,
now amalgamated with the Ethnological Society as the An¬
thropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.
But in reference to the Davenport Brothers, what became
of those other two men who came up to town, and exhibited
themselves to the Spiritualists once or twice at the Crystal
Palace, and who did all that the brothers did, and much
besides, of a marvellous character ? Mr.  * was certain
* We omit the name, as we do not wish to open a discussion on the
subject in these pages. A friend of ours who saw them, says that con¬
sidered as trickery the performance was clever, hut as an imitation of the-
Dayenports it was a failure.—Ed.
that it was spiritual; Mr.  I think, believed it to be all
trick ; and it shook the belief of some in the Davenport
Brothers. One word in regard to tests. The cording is ob¬
jectionable, because there is an- old trick of a man loosening
himself from cord ; I have seen it done often. Fine thread,
or slips of paper sealed, would be much better ; or say, put
the thumbs together, and a strip of silver paper round them
sealed, as it is evident that on the slightest attempt to get
free the paper would give way—anything better than the
cording. The men I refer to, I saw, were corded up in trunks,
and immediately became free; the door of. the cabinet
closed again, and they became as before—fastly corded up,
though you could see under the cabinet, and watchers were
placed all round, and all in full daylight, there being windows
allround. , Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel Royal, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Three leading points are raised in the foregoing
letter:—1. The position of the late Dr. Hunt with
regard to Spiritualism; 2. The relationship between
the Anthropological Institute and the British Associa¬
tion ; 3. The relative positions of Spiritualists and
Anthropologists.
Only a few ' hours before his painful and sudden
death, Dr. Hunt told us, in the reception room of the
British Association at Exeter, that he wished to see
Spiritualism fairly investigated ; he said that he had
seen the Davenports and believed them to be impostors,
but that when clever men like Mr. Cromwell Varley stated
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism to be genuine, it
was clear that the wholasubject required, searching ex¬
amination. He knew nothing about it himself. He
then began to complain, in an excited manner, of the
action of a few of the officers of the British Association
in regard to anthropological papers ; and he expressed
much indignation about the action of one learned pro¬
fessor in particular. A few hours later and this
earnest man, who had laboured so hard all his days to
establish in Great Britain a powerful organisation, to
systemartically study man as a science, passed to the
other side of life, where “his works do follow him.”
That the British Association and the Anthropological
Institute have not worked more easily together is owing
to faults on both sides. "What private griefs both may
have we know not, so can only speak of their public
actions. When the grievances of the Anthropological
Institute have been brought up at meetings of the
General Committee of the British Association, the In¬
stitute has, of late years at least, been unfortunate in
its advocates, who have usually spoken in an angry
manner, to the great amusement of the listeners, who,
for the most part, could not gather very clearly from
the utterances what the.complainants wanted, and why
it was wanted. Professor Huxley, when in the chair at
Edinburgh, told one of the Anthropological delegates
that he was quite out of order in speaking; the speech
went on nevertheless, the listeners laughed, and at its
close Professor Huxley remarked that the gentleman
was quite “ out of order and breaking the rules of the
Association in speaking,” but that he, as chairman, “ did
not interrupt him, because he did not wish it to be
stated that the meeting refused to hear what Dr. 
had to say.” If a good speaker like Sir John Lubbock
had represented the Institute, stating in a quiet clear
way what the Institute really wanted, and why it
wanted it, then sat down, and left with the meeting the
onus of acting unjustly, if it chose to do so, the point
would probably have been carried, for too many voters
were present to form a clique, though wo do not say
that they might not have been influenced to some extent
by popular prejudices. On the other hand, the Anthro¬
pological Institute has not been quite fairly treated by
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3
the British Association, and we believe that some of
the governing officers of the Association think this to
be the case. At the last meeting at Brighton, however,
the matters in dispute seemed to have settled down,
and all passed off pretty amicably*.
What is to be gained by adopting the suggestion of
Mr. Atkinson, and forcing Spiritualism upon the notice
of the Anthropological Institute ? After much contention
and some ridicule, a committee might be appointed, and
after the lapse of one or two years, the twelve or twenty
persons on the committee might be Spiritualists. Then,,
as was the case with the Dialetical Society, the council
might take fright and desert the committee, and the
bulk of the members of the society might quietly
assume that their governing officers had gone mad. We
do not see that the results to be achieved are worth the
trouble, and think that the members of the Institute
who naturally take an interest in the subject of Spiri¬
tualism will investigate it as private individuals with¬
out urging. Of what value is the opinion of the Anthro¬
pological Institute to Spiritualists, and why should we re¬
recognise it as having any authority ? Spiritualism is
spreading with great velocity, and has plenty of the
deepest thinkers and most eminent men of the day in its
ranks, as well as several of the crowned heads of Europe;
why then should we ask the Anthropological Institute
or the- Royal Society to sit in judgment ? We feel
little interest in their opinions or decisions. In America,
where Spiritualists, after much trouble, fairly boat and
silenced some of the learned associations, those associa¬
tions in every case were afraid to own it publicly.
Such precedents are not encouraging.
If we keep silence and do nothing, some of the scien¬
tific societies will be forced at last to take up the ques¬
tion. Already there has been some outcry on the part
of the public that the learned societies are unable to
give definite^ information on the serious subject of
spiritual manifestations, and the Daily Tehyrajph and
Standard both had to tell the President of the British
Association (Dr. Carpenter), that his utterances about
Spiritualism were altogether unreliable. Here are cer¬
tain phenomena taking place in connection with persons
called mediums, and the Anthropological Institute,
which professes to study man as a science, is in a state
of ignorance about facts which are causing very con¬
siderable excitement in the public mind. As time rolls
on, the public will demand an explanation from those
whose duty it is to give it; so there is no necessity
for Spiritualists to take action in the matter at all.
Energy would be more wisely expended in other direc¬
tions than in bringing a tabooed subject before tho
Anthropblogical Institute or the Royal Society. Never¬
theless, Spiritualists cannot do better than to join the
Anthropological Institute, for the sake of obtaining
valuable- information of all kinds about the nature;of
the body of man; moreover, the Institute is doing
good work; it has a valuable library, and its publica¬
tions are interesting.
If the Institute wishes to take up the subject, we
think, a good plan would be for the council to pass a
resolution asking some intelligent'Spiritualist,—say Mr.
Alfred Russell Wallace,—to read a paper on the subject.
When thus supported by a formal request on the part
of the council, perhaps a paper might be forthcoming
from somebody, but under present conditions we do not
see what inducement there is for any Spiritualist to
attempt to battle with the prejudices of the members of
the Institute, Men ought to search out truth for them¬
selves, and not wait to have it forced upon them by
others. People who battle with new truths, rather
than examine them personally to ascertain their value,
may just as well remain outside the ranks of Spiri¬
tualism, as they do not make the best supporters.-
Another and perhaps better plan of action on the
part of the Anthropological Institute would bo to ap¬
point a committee to inquire into the subject of mes¬
merism, and to collect all the facts they can about
it from. reliable books like that written by tho
late Professor Gregory, also from the examination of
experienced mesmeric lecturers. To explain away
Spiritualism everybody is now admitting the truth of
mesmerism ; and this was amusingly manifest in the
discussion which followed the reading of Canon Callo¬
way’s paper at the Anthropological Institute. The
medical profession, after abusing mesmerism for a whole
generation^ is now admitting it surreptitiously into
medical books, under the name of “ Artificial Somnam¬
bulism.” The want of full information about mesmerism
is now deeply felt by Spiritualists, since trance-media
are persons mesmerised by spirits, who by will-power
try to make their sensitives say what they wish.
A strange mixture of the thoughts of the medium, of
the thoughts of the spirit, and the thoughts of tho
persons present often comes from the lips of a trance-
speaker, and usually it is only here and there that the
remarks can be referred with certainty by the hearers
to their true source. If mesmerists—who are merely
spirits in the earthly body, instead of out of it—-had
tried a large number of experiments in the attempt to
make their own thoughts come out of the lips of their
sensitives, we should now know a great deal about
trance-mediumship, and the difficulties which the
operators on the other side of the grave have to en-
encounter. The lack of this knowledge is the penalty
we are paying for having tabooed certain of the phe¬
nomena of the universe as unfit for investigation. The
President of the Anthropological Institute once threw
a striking picture upon the screen at the Royal Institu¬
tion by the aid of the electric lamp. It represented a
warlike African chief crouching in terror behind his
shield, lest he should catch a glimpse of his mother- in¬
law ; it being, according to the superstitions of the
tribe, a terrible thing for a man to look upon that rela¬
tive. The unwritten scientific superstitions of the day
have placed the learned societies in exactly the same
mental position with regard to Spiritualism and mesmer¬
ism, that the said savages occupy with regard to their
mothers-in-law. Some day the savages may learn that
there is no more danger in a mother-in-law than in an
ape ; and perhaps the Anthropological Institute, which
studies apes, may in time lose the dread of studying
the immortal spirit of man, which is really a superior
thing to an American spider monkey.
If the Institute appointed a committee to hold a
meeting once a week to collect all possible practical
information about mesmerism, the rank and file of the
members of the society would probably not take fright
at that very mild subject, and many Spiritualists would
join the Institute. The reports of the committee would
educate the members of the society in one branch at
least of psychology, after which preliminary training they
might be courageous enough to face even Spiritualism.
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, is away from London,
lecturing under spirit influence in Scotland and the north of
England.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1872.
TEST CONDITIONS.
A Manchester correspondent suggests that- an iron
grating shall he placed horizontally between the head
of Miss Cook and the opening of the cabinet, as one
means of obtaining spirit faces under test conditions.
He says, “ Why not do so ?” In the first place, the
spirit Katie has announced that if anybody alters her
cabinet without her consent, she will smash it, and
nobody dares -to bore a gimlet-hole in it without her
permission. Last winter a member of one of the
leading London private circles made a cabinet with a
wooden grating for a like purpose, and at the first sit¬
ting it was cracked, and torn, and smashed to a con¬
siderable extent. Miss Cook was not the medium.
Dr. Purdon once tried straight jackets and Chubb locks
for a medium, as already published in these pages ; a
disagreeable failure was the result. Mr. Guppy once
thought of making a cabinet with a grating for the
Davenports; he, however, consulted the spirits about
it first. They told him that the hands and arms were
made near the mediums, and that they could not get
them through the grating if he made one. When
physicists attempt to impose their own conditions upon
spiritual phenomena, failure is generally the result;
and spirits have told us that sometimes, when they have
been able to comply with the conditions imposed by the
materialist, they have withheld the manifestations on
purpose. Portunately this power does not come to the
earth to submit to man, or to conditions imposed by
him, otherwise it would infallibly be controlled and
used for selfish purposes; it is a power which comes to
govern, but not to obey.
Spiritualism is more a mental and a spiritual science
than a branch of physics, although some of its pheno¬
mena extend into the realm of the physical philosopher;
hence investigators who approach the subject from the
spiritual side have a certain amount of influence over
the manifestations. All other Conditions being the
same, the manifestations are marvellously strengthened
When the medium is perfectly happy, and all the mem¬
bers of the circle are bound together by the affections. |
A husband does not bind his wife with ropes to
be sure that she is not cheating him, neither does a
mother put her son under an iron grating for the same
purpose. Hence, gratings, ropes, sealing-wax, and
holding of hands at seances, are visible proofs that one
of the laws favouring spiritual communion is broken,
consequently that at those particular seances the best
results are not obtained, a weakening and restraining
influence being exerted against the manifestations.
From our experience' we are quite sure that those
Spiritualists who impose the most test conditions obtain
tile fewest test manifestations, unless with a medium
professedly and specially developed by the spirits for
test purposes.
If a young man, a medium, called upon our Man¬
chester correspondent in his own house, and was then
asked to enter an empty cupboard to get the darkness
usually necessary during the materialising of spirit
forms—if, further, a few minutes later, the glorified
spirit of a beautiful Eastern woman in shining white
raiment came out of that cabinet, and allowed her
hands and dress to be felt, assuredly our correspondent
would say that he had obtained a manifestation under
test conditions. All this was witnessed only two or
three months ago, as already recorded in these pages,
by Mr. Henry E. Russell, of the Post Office, Kingston-
on-Thames. Our Manchester correspondent would
assuredly never get such manifestations in cabinets
fitted with bars and gratings, and, very probably, he
might not get a solitary rap. Why, then, could the
manifestation be obtained at Kingston ? Simply,
because, in a time of great trouble, Mr. Russell proved
himself to be a good friend to the medium—a friend
overflowing with kindliness and sympathy. Spiritual
influx flows to the earth through the affections of man,
as Swedenborg revealed generations ago, and optical
and practical evidence’ that it is so is now to be found
in superabundance in London.
A spirit may so progress by his own exertions as to
equal in purity, love, and wisdom, the archangels
painted by the thoughts of the theologian, and we may
suppose such a spirit to come to earth for the purpose
of communicating at a spirit circle. On his arrival he
finds us to be such delightfully honest people, that we
sit grasping each other’s hand lest each one should
cheat his neighbour, and there, at the head of the table,
sits the medium, the accredited ambassador from the
angel-world, bound in his chair with ropes, with a
Manchester grating before his face. The heavenly
visitor would think that he has found his way into
remarkably nice society.
| Oh,” reply some two hundred Spiritualists we
know, to whom the foregoing remarks will come home
with remarkable force, “if we did not hold the hands
of the medium A, he would be sure to cheat, but we
have confidence in B.” Unfortunately, the answer is a
fair one, though it does not explain the holding of
hands all round the circle. Mediumship is not de¬
pendent upon the moral character of the individual, so
that on rare occasions a genuine medium may be found
disposed to assist real manifestations by his own exer¬
tions. Such mediums have, at all events, the satisfac¬
tion of knowing that if they are suspiciously treated,
they richly deserve it. If a medium has bad feelings of
any kind, it brings spirits of a low order to the circle ;
a low-class medium is therefore. more likely to try to
cheat what is called a test circle than a circle of
friends. Most mediums are straightforward persons,
who do not attempt to assist the phenomena, but even
when one has the desire to cheat, and actually does
cheat, more test manifestations are given through his
mediumship at a friendly circle than at one where the
members impose their own conditions.
The communications accompanying physical mani¬
festations are frequently not of a high order of intelli¬
gence ; but, seeing that the mental and spiritual states
of the sitters are not always such as to encourage the
approach of the higher spirits, it is only reasonable to
suppose that those spirits who have most affection for
earth, and the spiritual state of the earth, should have
plenty of power at such seances. At the first few
physical seances which an enquirer attends it may be
natural to desire a few tests, but when these are con¬
stantly imposed among those who know each other, the
ropes, and gratings, and hand holding are simply
the mental and spiritual states of the sitters made
visible. The members of the inner circles of Spiritualism
are people who never dream of cheating each other, and
have a higher opinion of their own integrity than of
the integrity of a grating made by a blacksmith.
Soon after the faces began to appear through Miss
Cook’s mediumship adverse external conditions checked
the development of the phenomena. The remedy was
simple. Strangers were excluded from the seances, only
Rer own friends, who wanted neither ropes, nor bolts.
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
5
nor bars were admitted; a darkened room was used as
a cabinet, and the observers sat outside in the passage,
in the light. Curtains were suspended over the door.
Soon through these curtains faces began to appear, but
only small portions of them were uncovered at first.
Stranger's would have said—“ Here is a room with cup¬
boards in it, and with another entrance, namely, the
window. What evidence have we that those are parts
of the faces of spirits ?” Then cupboards would have
had to be examined, drawers turned out, the window
nailed and sealed, and the medium made so unhappy
that no manifestations would come after all the trouble
had been taken. But the people present had more
confidence in each other than in iron gratings, so
everybody was happy, and the manifestations grew
apace, and living faces as black as ink were put
out, though nobody had asked for any tests, or sus-.
pected that a concealed tribe of black people lived
on the premises. But when strangers were admitted,
the condition of things was changed. A cabinet with
no separate entrance had to be substituted for the dark¬
ened breakfast-parlour, and rope-tying and knot sealing
had to waste time and waste spiritual power at every
seance. Then, again, sometimes the mental influence
of persons present would stop the manifestations, some¬
times strengthen them, and sometimes weaken them,
but altogether the speed of development of these mani¬
festations has been perceptibly checked, though there is
progression. Still the checks serve the useful purpose
of giving opportunities for studying the influence of the
mental and spiritual states of the visitors upon the
manifestations. What is desired is that, as in Ame¬
rica, deceased relatives of the sitters shall be able
regularly to make themselves visible, so that they can
be recognised.
There seems to be no doubt that the more of selfish¬
ness and the less of affection there is in any nation, the
more is that nation cut off from communion with the
higher denizens of the spirit-world, and the greater is
the national unhappiness and suffering.
EEICHENBACH’S MAGNETIC FLAMES.
BY THE LATE WILLIAM GBEGOEY, F.E.S.E., PROFESSOR OF
CHEMISTRY AT EBlftBURGH UNIVERSITY.
Mesmeric experiments ought to be conducted with
entire privacy, no one being present but the subject,
the operator, and one or two assistants or witnesses, if
experiments are intended on which conclusions are
to be founded. Some experimenters, anxious to demon¬
strate the facts, make of every experiment a kind of
exhibition, to which all their friends are summoned;
but we should always bear in mind that every addi¬
tional person is possibly an additional cause of disturb¬
ance to a susceptible subject. When we have in private
satisfied ourselves of any fact, we may then try to satisfy
others, but we should take but a few at a time, and
endeavour to diminish their influence on the subject by
keeping them at a certain distance.
This precaution is more especially required, when we
wish, as many now do, to repeat Reichenbach’s experi¬
ments on the light from magnets, from crystals, or from
the human body. Indeed, so many precautions are
necessary, that, unless the experiments be directed by
some one who has practical experience, failure is far
more probable than success.
In order to have the odylic light seen and described
to us, we must strictly attend to the following condi¬
tions, and if we neglect any of them, we must not hope
to succeed. 1. We must have a truly sensitive subject,
one, for example, who in the darkness of night has
observed light from objects or persons. It is not enough
that the subject be nervous, or hysterical, or subject to
spasmodic attacks, although these are things usually
favourable to sensitiveness. He should feel the magnet
strongly; but after all we must try him with the light
before we can pronounce him sensitive to it. 2. The
darkness must be absolute. In any ordinary room, and
during the day, this condition is not attainable; but
with care it may be secured at night. 3. The subject
should remain an hour, an hour and a-half, or even
two hours, uninterruptedly in this total darkness, that
the eye may acquire its full sensibility, and the pupil
be enlarged to the utmost, before any trial be made.
The time varies in different cases. 4. Not a ray, nor
even the faintest glimmer, of daylight or candle-light,
must be admitted after the subject enters the dark
chamber. All arrangements must be previously made,
and no one must come in or go out during the whole
time. For the light admitted by opening the door,
&C., is sufficient, even if feeble, to dazzle the sub¬
ject’s vision, so as to render him blind to odylic light
for half-an-hour or longer. 5. The magnet should
be powerful. A permanent steel horse-shoe, carry¬
ing sixty or eighty pounds, will suffice for most
experiments, and it is easy to have an electro¬
magnet much more powerful. Highly sensitive per¬
sons will see, in a totally dark room, the light
even from a pocket horse-shoe magnet, if of great
intensity, but it is of course a light of small size.
6. No one should hold the magnet in his hand,
or on his knee, or touch it at all, while the subject
looks at it. When the light is seen, the close approach
of the operator, or of any one else, to the magnet ex¬
tinguishes it, because his odylic influence neutralises
that of the magnet, and tends to cause a reversal of
its odylic polarity. A straight bar-magnet, indeed, if
held in the right hand by its northward or negative
end, or vice versa, will exhibit a larger flame than
before at the farther end, the two influences being now
combined; but in the case of horseshoe magnets, they
should be set upright on a table, and the operator, after
disarming them, should retire to a distance. 7. No
one should sit or stand near or close to the subject;
for if they do, their influence destroys the sensitiveness
more or less. When they retire the subject often sees
the light for the first time. 8. The subject, to see dis¬
tinctly the odylic flame, must be at a certain distance
from the magnet; for, at a greater or less distance, the
light may be invisible, or only seen as a faint general
luminousness. Now this distance is different in every
subject. Some can see at nearly forty inches from the
magnet, others not till within two or three inches of it;
others, again, at intermediate distances, different for
each. Few see the flame at a greater distance than
four feet. In each case, the specific distance must be
ascertained, and, ever after, strictly attended to. Short¬
sighted persons find their vision, as regards odylic light,
improved by the glasses they commonly use. This con¬
dition of distance is absolutely essential, so that, even
if all other conditions be fulfilled, the neglect of this
one will cause failure. 9. The subject should be placed,
sitting, with the body* in the plane of the magnetic
meridian, and the back towards the north, the feet
tending towards the south, the head in the opposite
direction, looking, however, towards the south. ■ *
fHS SPIRITUALIST.
6
ISTov. 15, 1872.
There is not one of these'nine conditions the neglect
of which may not cause failure in an ordinary sensitive
in the conscious state. ^With highly sensitive subjects,
some of them exert only a secondary and modifying
influence. Persons in the magnetic sleep are, as a
general rule, so intensely sensitive to odylic light, that
they see it in daylight.
P El Y ATE SEANCES.
(Reported by permission.)
SEAITCES AT MR. HENRY COOK’S.
On Saturday evening, Nov. 2nd, a seance was held at the
residence of Mr. Cook, of Hackney. Mr., Mrs., and Miss
Edmiston, of Beckenham, were present; also the editor
of one of the London morning papers. Miss Cook sat in
the cabinet, as usual, for the spirit faces. The condi¬
tions under which these faces are produced are stated
at great length in No. 38 of The Spiritualist.
Miss Cook entered the cabinet, and in a short time
was tied up with rope. The literary guest, who had
previously examined the cabinet, sealed some of the
knots, and said he should like to tie Miss Cook’s arm,
near the shoulder, to the back rail of the chair, with
his handkerchief. This he did, and after knotting his
handkerchief, sealed one of the knots on it. The spirits
have said they will be able to let visitors do the tying
as well as the sealing when the manifestations are more
developed, and nobody knew what would be the result
of this first experiment, tried without asking their per¬
mission. The cabinet was closed again, and Katie, the
spirit, raised no objections to what had been done. She
remarked, “ What a funny thing ! Why, its kicking!”
in allusion to the'seal on the handkerchief, which con¬
sisted of a lion rampant, and with which she seemed to
be much amused. Then Katie showed her face, which,
as usual, was much like the medium’s, only paler. A
little later a very lively black, or dark olive face, with
twinkling eyes, came to the opening in the cabinet, and
bore the full light of the gas. It was draped in white,
and had a merry look ; gave two or three nods to the
company, and disappeared below the opening. Katie
then asked those present to unlock the door and let the
medium out. She was found leaning forward, as usual,,
in a deep trance, and had to be awakened. The edi¬
torial gentleman found the seals and knots on the rope
and handkerchief just as he had left them, and he was
ten minutes untying the knots on the rope to set the
medium free.
After an interval of twenty minutes, the company
sat again, and some loud raps, or rather blows, sounded
upon the door of the cabinet, and Katie asked,—“ What
do you think of my psychic force raps ?” She said that
the blows were not given by materialised spirit hands,
but by a force controlled by her husband John. “ Now,
John, give them a little more psychic force,” said she,
and some more blows were given. This was the first
time such loud rappings had ever been given, and was
probably d&e to Miss Cook having had a seance with
Mrs. Bassett, a good rapping medium, a few days pre¬
viously. Mediums often gain additional powers by
sitting with each other. A dark seance was held at
Mr. Cook’s the day after the seance at Mr. and Mrs.
Bassett’s, and the physical manifestations were much
stronger than usual.
Katie next showed her face again in a strong light.
It had a sleepy, somnambulic look about it. She after¬
wards said that from sixteen to twenty spirits helped
her to make the faces. She said that the white fabric
enveloping the head was spirit drapery, made in part
from substances contained in the dress of the medium.
We asked her whether she could make white drapery,
if all the garments.the mediums wore were black. She
said that she did not know, but that she thought not.
On Wednesday evening, November 6th, Dr. John E.
Purdon, of Sandown, and Mr. A. E. Wallace, were
among the- guests at Mr. Cook’s. While the medium
was tied with tape, and the knots sealed, a nearly
black face came for a few seconds only, and was gone.
Then Katie came, and exhibited, for the first time,
some of her long hair; hitherto, the drapery had
always concealed the hair of the spirit heads.
At the second sitting a new face came, the upper
part like the face of the medium, and_ the lower part
different. Katie said that' these strange faces will
gradually grow more unlike the medium, and be recog¬
nised by the sitters as friends of their own. Next,
Katie came again.
At the next sitting Miss Cook entered the cabinet,
and soon Katie said—“ Look at the tying; I defy any
body present to tie themselves so.” Miss Cook had
been loudly complaining while the tying was going on
that the tape was cutting her. Dr. Purdon lifted her,
chair and all, out of the cabinet into the centre of the
room. It was found that the tape had been passed
once round one arm near the shoulder, and double-
knotted, also once round the other arm near the
shoulder, and doublerknotted, the tape and knots being
tight enough in each case to press into, the skin of the
arm. Then the ends of the tape were tied, by many
double knots, to the central rail of the back of the
chair; and all the tying was so tight as to hold Miss
Cook tightly against the back of the chair. Every
knot was out of the reach of her hands and teeth.
After some ineffectual attempts to untie her, a knife
was produced, and she was set free by cutting the tape.
In the early part of the evening, Dr. Purdon had
been remarking that he knew by experiment that the
best test method of tying a person to a chair, was not
to touch their body or legs with the rope, but to firmly
tie the arms, near the shoulder, to the back rail of the
chair. It seemed, therefore, as if the tying later in the
evening had been done by the spirits in consequence of
his remark.
Last Tuesday night there was a seance at Mr. Cook’s,
and the following description of it is by Mr. Blyton :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—At a seance held with Miss Florrie Cook, this even¬
ing, the guests-present were Count Wimpffen, Mr. and Mrs.
Inglis, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mrs. Blyton, Mr. and Mrs. Cook
and family, and myself. The medium having been shut up in
the cabinet, was in five minutes securely tied, and the knots
were duly sealed by Mr. Inglis, who had previously thoroughly
examined the cabinet. The doors having been again closed, a
dark face appeared at the opening, after a short interval, but
only manifested for a few moments, being distinctly seen,
however, by several of those present. After some singing the
medium was entranced, and Katie appeared at the opening,
previously remarking upon the similarity of her appearance to
that of the medium. A very good and clear view of Katie
was obtained, the spirit turning her face in various directions
in order to present different aspects of her head. By direction
of Katie the cabinet doors were then opened, and the medium
found entranced in a stooping position. The seals and fasten¬
ings were found intact. After a short interval the seance was
resumed, the medium being again secured ; the tying was
duly examined and the knots sealed by Count Wimpffen.
The first spirit which then came had a white fat face,
which shortly gave way to one with a dark brown face, neither
being recognised. After an interval for refreshments there
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
7
was another sitting. After a good deal of singing, Katie
again manifested, and asking for permission to cut a lock of
hair from the medium’s head, she took a pair of scissors from
the hand of Mrs. Inglis, and severed^ curl, which she handed
with a piece of her own to the medium. On releasing the
medium and comparing the colours of the two specimens of
hair, that of Katie’s was found to be of a light brown, and of
a peculiar character. Katie instructed those present not to
pinch the specimen, and on Miss Cook resuming her place in
the cabinet, she took back the hair from her, but promised to
give a better lock of hair for preserving on some future occa¬
sion. A number of concussions of a rather loud and startling
nature were made, and, in the course of the sitting, Katie
spoke both with the direct voice and also through the medium
when entranced. ' Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. Nov. 12th, 1872.
It may here be mentioned, that at a seance held
about two months ago, at the house of Mr. Desmond
Pitzgerald, the electrician, at Brixton, a piece of a
spirit robe was cut off and given him, with the informa¬
tion that it was sufficiently materialised to be perma¬
nent.
In our report of Mr. Cook’s seances in the last num¬
ber of The Spiritualist, we omitted to state that at one
seance Katie asked a gentleman present to rub some
violet ink over the back of her hand, which she put out
of the cabinet for the purpose; she said that she was
going to try and transfer the colour. When Miss Cook
came out of the cabinet, the violet patch, about as big
as a five-shilling piece, was found on her arm, just
below the elbow.
We have received the following letter about one of
the seances described in our last number :—
To the Editor ofli The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Allow me to add my mite of testimony about a seance
for spirit faces which I attended at Miss Florrie Cook’s, on the
18th of last month. The marvellous manifestations which I wit¬
nessed (which I had seen mentionedin your columns) were truly
astonishing. The tying-up of the medium by unseen power
or agency is, I should think, convincing enough for almost any
sceptic, the knots of the cord being drawn so tightly, it was
with great difficulty that I was able to untie them, and I feel
quite positive that the medium could have had no hand in the
matter herself. I helped to seal the knots, and after the mani¬
festations of the various faces, the seals were quite intact,
whereas if the medium had moved in the slightest, they must
have been broken,
Previous to my visit I had heard that the spirit Katie was
so much like the medium herself, which raised doubts in some
minds, but I could not see the slightest resemblance. The
face was much smaller, and fair, with light eyes ; whereas the
medium is very dark with brown eyes. The second face was
smaller, xesembling the face of a Hindoo child, about five
or six months old.
The next face of a female appeared to be about thirty years
of age, with a broad flat face, which appeared to be in pain,
but in neither of these three could I see the' slightest resem¬
blance to the medium.
The fourth face, which I think was termed the Parsee, with
the white head-dress, seemed to partake of the features of the
medium. In conclusion I must say that the phenomena are
the most wonderful I ever witnessed.
Forest Gate, Essex, W. Brooks.
November 2nd, 1872.
The above was one of the best seances for faces unlike
Miss Cook’s. Katie has the features of Miss Cook, but
almost invariably much fairer. Sometimes her face is
larger than Miss Cook’s, sometimes smaller. Her eyes
vary in colour at different seances ; sometimes they are
large and grey, as Mr. Brooks saw them; but some¬
times they are the same colour as Miss Cook’s eyes.
The successful results at this circle are chiefly due
to the circumstance that it is not used for proselytising
purposes, and confined chiefly to Spiritualists, or persons
who have had experience in spiritual phenomena, who
consequently supply those conditions which 'must be
had from the sitters to get the best manifestations.
To get the best manifestations, a medium must be
thoroughly happy and at ease, these things being born
of the spirit, and shrinking from the touch of earth.
Proselytising work naturally throws the medium into
an anxious state of mind, for very many reasons.
DIFFICULTIES BESETTING THE STUDY OF
MESMERISM.*
BY THE REV. CANON CALLOWAY, OE NATAL.
It is well known that many, perhaps almost all of
the subjects which have been boasted of by mesmerisers,
have been detected in more or less fraud; and the pro¬
mised manifestations have failed to be exhibited, or
dwindled down into the merest, most silly attempts at
deception, whenever they have been subjected to the
rigid scrutiny of scientific investigators. And yet these
very investigators, under whose piercing scrutiny the
thing has failed, have been all more or less convinced
that there is something in mesmerism, though there
may not be all that its advocates claim for it.
What is the cause of this failure ? And what is this
something that there really is in mesmerism ?
The human being is not always in the same state,
nor possessed of the same power either to influence
others, or to be influenced by others. The human being
is not possessed of a constantly present power, like the
magnet, but a power dependent on something else. It
is like a piece of sealing-wax which requires to be
rubbed before it manifests any electrical attraction, or
like a piece of steel which is a magnet when placed in
a certain relation to a voltaic current, but ceases to be
a magnet when taken away from that relation, or as
the plates of a galvanic battery which are active only
when moist, but when perfectly dry manifest no gal¬
vanic properties.
This is true both as regards the mesmerisers and the
mesmerised. In his own room with the subject of his
experiments, and a few confiding friends, the mesme-
riser has all confidence. His nervous system is free;
his fancy undistracted ; his will unfettered. But when
he is surrounded by the incredulous in a public theatre;
it may be, when he knows that all he is about to do is
to be subjected to the rigorous investigation of men of
greater talent, knowledge, and fame, than himself, a
thousand other passions and thoughts come up which
are calculated to prevent that mental concentration and
exertion of the will, upon which his power, if it exist
at all, depends.
In like manner, the mesmerised is distracted by sur¬
rounding circumstances. He cannot yield himself to
the influence which is being brought to bear upon him;
which means that he resists that influence without
knowing that he is doing so: his will is distracted;
his thoughts are not on the mesmeriser, but on the
sceptical, unfriendly eyes, which he is conscious are
fixed upon him, ready and longing to detect deception.
And he has come to a public ordeal. He has come to
prove to these sceptical lookers-on that there is some¬
thing in the phenomena of mesmerism. But, under
the changed circumstances, the wills of the mesmeriser
and mesmerised are no longer in relation—they no
longer act and react on each other. The steel is not
in relation with the voltaic current; the plates of the
voltaic battery are dry. The mesmeriser is the same
* This is a portion of a memoir, by Canon Calloway, read before the
Anthropological Institute.
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15,1872.
human being, but in that state which renders it abso¬
lutely impossible to produce the phenomena which
readily became manifested under different circumstances.
And the mesmerised cannot say, at least it has appa¬
rently been regarded as a point of honour not to say,
“ I am not in a state capable of being mesmerised
to-day. Come again some other time.” Such a state¬
ment would be followed by roars of derisive and trium¬
phant laughter. And so he is tempted to act out, by
his mere will, in a normal or but slightly distracted
condition of the nervous system, the same things as he
knows he has been accustomed to act under a foreign
influence, in an abnormal condition of the nervous sys¬
tem. Hence, it has been remarked that “ the mes¬
merised seem sometimes endowed with all but super¬
natural power of endurance and deception.” A similar
tendency to endure and to deceive is observed in certain
morbid conditions of the nervous system, not induced
by mesmerism, as in hysteria, in which the patient is
sometimes possessed by so great a yearning after sym¬
pathy, and to become an object on which the attention
of others shall be concentrated, that almost all kinds
and forms of disease are feigned, and she seems actually
incapable or unwilling to make that exertion which
would at once enable her to throw off the deception,
and to act truly.
So much appears due to the practitioners of mes¬
merism, and may afford a hint as to the conditions on
which such investigations should be conducted.
SPIRITUALISM IK DALSTOK.
Ox Thursday evening, October 31st, a meeting of the
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism was held
at 74, Navarino-terrace, Dalston ; Mr. T. Wilks, president of
the association, occupied the chair.
Mr. T. Blyton then read a paper on Spiritualism. He began
by reading a list of the names of some of the great men of all
nations who believe in Spiritualism, and have certified its
truth ; next he called attention to some of the chief seances
which have been held in London, and the phenomena observed
thereat, as attested by reliable witnesses. He then spoke of
the various hypotheses which have been brought forward to
account for the phenomena, arguing that the spiritual theory
was the only one which covered all the facts. He said that
since the Dalston Association had placed greater restrictions
on the admission of strangers, they had had much better
seances, the manifestations being much strengthened when
there was mental harmony and good feeling among all the
members of the circle, and much weakened when strangers
caused interruptions. He did not think it good to be too
anxious to proselytise. Spiritualism was not only not for¬
bidden in the Scriptures, but St. Paul had distinctly stated
that'men ought to desire to receive the spiritual gifts inci¬
dental to mediumship. In the Bible it is stated that spirits
once appeared so palpably as to be mistaken for men ; if that
were true, why should they not appear now in the same
manner ? In short, the phenomena now taking place corro¬
borate those which are recorded to have taken place in past
ages in all parts of the world.
Mr. Tapp said that all present so agreed with the statements
set forth in the paper, that there was nothing to discuss. Why
had not Mr. Blyton brought forward some knotty points he
could not himself explain ?
Mr. Blyton said that there were plenty of perplexities con¬
nected with the subject. How'was it that through the table
motions the answers “ Yes ” and “ No r were frequently given
within one or two minutes to the same question ? How was
it that' spirits who communicated through trance mediums
could not usually reply to questions put to them about their
life on earth ?
The President said that the question of dealing with evil
spirits and how to get rid of them was worth consideration.
For the last two or three tveeks a spirit lady had come to his
home circle, and refused to go away and let other spirits com¬
municate, although she had been politely requested to leave,
bhe snowed a great deal of resentment.
Mr. J. B. Ortton said that the question might be put in
another way, namely—“ How could the condition of low spirits
be improved ?” He thought it better to try to improve them
than to drive them away. They could get rid of them, he
thought, by not sitting regularly.
Mr. Harrison said that he knew of a spirit circle at Norwich
which for months had been plagued by unpleasant spirits. One
evening a message came from some departed friend of the
family, saying that if the members of circles always appointed,
a fow days beforehand, the day and hour at which they would
meet, then some of the better spirits would be able to make
due preparations, and to protect-them from the lower ones.
They tried the plan, and had not been troubled by the worst
kind of spirits since. This may have been an exceptional
case, so he should like to see the same experiment tried by
other circles. He thought that before low spirits could get
near a circle and. communicate, there must be something in
the medium, or in the members of the circle to attract them
and give them power to enter ; nevertheless, it might not bo
anything wrong in the minds of the sitters that drew them,
for if Swedenborg’s teachings were reliable, something wrong
in the bodies of one or more of the sitters might give them
power to draw near.
Mr. J. Stephens said that at his earlier circles the members
were much troubled by undeveloped spirits, but he found that
his will power would always prevent them from doing auy
harm, and he always tried to teach them better. In school
he could command and keep in order thirty or forty children
by kindness and firmness, whereas some teachers could not
manage more than nine or ten. After communicating for
two months at one circle with bad spirits, he at last prevailed
upon some of them to tell the truth, and to give their real
names; when they discovered that he and his friends were
really seeking for truth, and would not encourage falsehood,
they became more tractable and friendly. One night a mem¬
ber of the circle suggested the singing of some comic songs ;
he objected, but the others carried out the suggestion ; then
there were most extraordinary and noisy manifestations ;
things were, flung about the room, and a jug of water was
emptied over several of the sitters. At the next three or four
sittings after that they could not get anything good from the
spirits. At Mrs. Main’s well known circle at the east end of
London, queer spirits would sometimes enter the house and
stop for weeks; she would see them walking about the house;
sometimes they would meet her on the stairs and blow out the
candle as she was going to bed, and they broke up most of her
furniture. But in the end Mrs. Main always conquered, for
she had a strong will.
Mr. Harrison—Was Mrs. Main the medium ?
Mr. Stephens replied that Mrs. Main was not "the medium,
but she had several, and one usually resided in the house. He
had found the communications through trance mediums to be
very unreliable ; bethought that the spirits could not ordi¬
narily control the whole mind of a trance medium, just as a
mesmerist can usually only give mental impressions to the
person mesmerised, and these impressions the sensitive has to
put in his own words. Sometimes a spirit refuses to tell the
story of his past life. Six weeks ago a spirit told him a story
which was thought at the time to be true, but on inquiry
proved to be every word false ; on the same evening another
spirit gave an account of himself, which proved to be literally
true from beginning to end. Father Lockhart, a Roman
Catholic clergyman, had recently tried to convert him (Mr.
Stephens), from Spiritualism to Romanism, and had asked him
to tell him the whole mystery and philosophy of spiritual
manifestations. He immediately asked Father Lockhart to
explain to him how spirits went in to eat and drink with
Abraham ? Father Lockhart was unable to explain, so sat
down without answering a word.
Mr. H. Cook said that he would not allow religious discus¬
sions to be introduced ; he objected to them.
Mr. Stephens said he was only showing that the experiences
of the present and the past were the-same.
The President said that Mr. Stephens was quite in order;
if he had said anything derogatory to religion, he_would have
stopped him.
Mr. Cook—You must put aside all sectarianism.
The President said that Mr. Cook was out of order.
Mr. Stephens said that he had joined another society in
that neighbourhood, for the sake of having free discussion
with people of all denominations, and by so doing he enlisted
friendly feelings towards Spiritualism, in all the sects he
went amongst. Talking of low spirits, Mr. Allsop, of High
Holborn, and Mr. Taylor, of Nottingham, had recently been
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
9
swamped with, a pail of water thrown over them ; the spirits
had been attracted by some rather wild talking before the
seance. The weather was cold at the time. (Laughter).
Mr. Harrison said that if the medium is in a passion or bad
state of mind just before a seance begins, that will give low
spirits more power to act than perhaps anything else. Once
he saw a celebrated medium in a furious passion ; a few
minutes afterwards the medium was entranced, and in the
full light of day lifted vertically up and down, about a foot
off the floor, with the front of his legs rubbing so hard against
the wooden front of the seat of a chair, that the skin was
rubbed off the front o'f his legs in a narrow vertical line. Some
persons present took him up-st.airs to bed. He was .brought
down a few minutes later and made to go through per¬
formances still more unpleasant.' The state of mind of all the
members of the circle had an influence over the manifestations,
but not usually so strong an influence as the state of mind and
body of the medium.
Mr. Ortton said that he had noticed that jocular conversation
before a seance often drew low undeveloped spirits.
The President said that the more solemn and quiet the
members of his circle were before a seance, the better were the
manifestations; prayer before seance had a good influence
over the manifestations. When they began without prayer,
the manifestations were not so good.
Mr. J. Sparey said that at his circle they usually began by
singing. They had spirit messages of all kinds there ; some
were true and some false. On the whole, he thought they
had more truth than falsehood. The spirits had only broken
one chair in his house, and that was by accident.
The President said that at his circle the members had re¬
cently been troubled by a female spirit, who called herself “ the
missus’’ (laughter); she jerked the table about with the
greatest violence, so that sometimes it was fairly twisted out
of the grasp of all the members of the circle, notwithstanding
their attempts to hold it down. The real name of “ the
missus ” was Fanny Davies; she told the truth and talked
sensibly sometimes, but would not go away and let other
spirits come. What aggravated him most was her obstinacy
—he never met a more obstinate person.
Mr. Blytonsaid that in the case just mentioned by the pre¬
sident, it was quite plain that the manifestations did not come
from the wills or minds of the members of the circle.
Mr. Cook proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Blyton for his
paper.
Mr. Tapp seconded the vote of thanks, adding that he
thought that Mr. Stephens was quite in order in what he had
said about Father Lockhart. . Spiritualism was so interwoven
with religious matters of all kinds, that it was impossible to
keep them separate ; in dealing with theological subjects it
was best to be careful, and to tread on the theological corns
of neighbours as lightly as possible, for nothing provoked so
much anger and irritation.*
The vote of thanks was given, and the meeting broke up.
We have received a letter from Mr. H. Bielfield, of
208, Euston-road, altogether denying the accuracy of the
statements made about him by “ F. S.,” in a paragraph on the
cover of the last number of the Spiritual Magazine. We do
not print the letter, because the controversy is now of little
public interest, and mistakes should be corrected in the
journals which make them, or the readers are mislead.
Mrss Foweek’s MeeiumshSp.—Miss Lottie Fowler is on
the point of returning to America, after making many friends
in England ; she is a well known trance speaker, but has no
physical mediumship. Some of her inspirational utterances
have been misty and inconclusive, but now and then she has
narrated past incidents in the lives of some of her sitters,
perfect strangers to her, with startling accuracy, giving even
the proper names of individuals concerned in the incidents.
Some of these revelations might be explained as thought¬
reading, for sometimes she has stated things which the sitters
had in their minds and at the time believed to be true, and
which afterwards proved to be inaccurate. Or, it may be,
that spirit friends of the sitters gave the inaccurate informa¬
tion to her, they also being uninformed as to the exact truth.
On the other hand, she has often revealed truths unknown at
the time to any mortal present. We wish her all success and
happiness in America, and so do all English Spiritualists.
* When people get angry it is usually an admission that they have a
had case. A geometrician does not get angry when a man tells him that a
straight line is not the shortest distance between two points—he knows too
well the strength of his own case.—[Ed.]
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
MAN AND THE APE.
On Tuesday evening, November 5th, the first meeting this
session of the Anthropological Institute was held at 4, St.
Martin’sqplace, Trafalgar-square, London. There was a large
attendance. ( Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A., presided.
Mr. 0. Sta’niland Wake read a paper, entitled “ Man and the
Ape.” After referring to the agreement in physical structure of
man and the ape, and to the fact that the latter possesses the
power of reasoning with all the faculties necessary for its due
exercise, the author proceeded to show that it was incorrect to
affirm that man had no special mental faculty.' He has a spiritual
insight dr power of reflection which enables him to distinguish
qualities and to separate them as objects of thought from the
objects to which they belong. All language, is in some sense
the result of such a process, and its exercise by even the most
uncivilised peoples is shown by their having words denoting
colours. The possession by man of the faculty of insight or
reflection is accompanied by a relative physical superiority.
The human brain is much larger than that of the ape, and man
has also a much more refined nervous structure, with a naked
skin. The author then showed that the only physical fact ab¬
solutely necessary to be accounted for is the great size of the
human brain, and this could not be done on the hypothesis of
natural selection. Mr. Wallace’s reference, on the other hand,
to a creative will, really undermines Mr. Darwin’s whole hy¬
pothesis. After referring to the theories of Mr. Murphy and
Hackel, the author stated that the only way to explain man’s
origin, consistently with his physical and mental connection
with the ape, is to suppose that nature is an organic whole,
and that man is the necessary result of its evolution. While
man, therefore, is derived from the ape, as supposed by Mr.
Darwin, it is under conditions very different from those which
his hypothesis requires'. According to this, the appearance of
man on the earth must have been in a certain sense acci¬
dental ; while, according to the author’s view, organic nature
could only have been evolved in the direction of man, who is
the necessary result of such evolution, and a perfect epitome of
nature itself.
The" Rev. Dunbar J. Heath, M.A., said that there appeared
to him to be hardly any connection between the lucid paper
just read and its title ; there was very little in it about man
or the ape, but much on the subject of development. The
author said that man formed general ideas, and he intimated
that the lower animals did not do so. The elevation of apes
ought to be tried ; he wished that he had a few of them under
his charge ; he would not trouble them with reading or
writing, but would first try to teach them to sing, and then
to play croquet. (Laughter.) The main object of Mr. Wake's
paper seemed to be to show that evolution might take place
without natural selection, the two things being quite uncon¬
nected., What did Mr. Wake mean by the word “sponta¬
neous ? ” He (Mr. Heath) disbelieved in anything in nature
being spontaneous or “without cause.” As to Mr. Wake’s
theory about nature being organic—organic meant being able
to form organs for a purpose. The human arm was an organ,
and a mass of iron could not be formed into a human arm,
iron not being an organic substance. Water not being
organic could not be made into a human leg. Nature rises by
steps until the organic kingdom is reached, and in studying
this branch of biology it is absolutely necessary to go into
molecular physics. In the first place there was homogeneous
matter, then crystallizable matter, and the difference between
these two kinds of matter could be told. Then there was col¬
loidal matter, which, with Mr. Wake, he believed to be
organic ; gum, sugar, starch, albumen, were among the colloid
substances, and were built up of large unstable molecules, so
complicated that in some cases as many as nine hundred
atoms entered into the composition of one molecule of organic
matter. The permanency of such substances is usually very
small. One person who had tried many experiments in the
forming of crystals, had obtained very curious results by
introducing viscous matter into the solution from which they
were formed; he then obtained “vital” forms, even with
such a substance as carbonate of lime. The author of the
paper had spoken about the permanency of types ; if a kitten
had a tail an inch longer than its brother of the same age, it
was thought to be a very wonderful thing, but the real wonder
was that four or five kittens should be just like their pa and
ma. He hoped that people interested in the subject would
read Dr. Bastian’s book, which was a mine of wealth.
Mr. Luke Burke said that the subject of man and the ape,
if treated in the way now common, would last till the day of
Nov. 15, 1872.
10 THE SPIRITUALIST.
judgment. They ought to go down to the great laws at the
root of the matter rather than to consider little things upon
the surface. Darwin’s theory was but a modification of one
nearly as old as the hills ; it had raised around him a host of
antagonists, who, instead of choosing their own ground, did
nothing but debate every little point raised by Mr. Darwin,
and no more real knowledge had been gained on the subject,
than was possessed when his book first came out. In the world
around they saw orderly interactions, and definite animal
organisms and mechanisms, so that the question before
them was one of the production of mechanisms. Nothing
under the face of heaven could construct a mechanism but
intelligence, and Darwin never touched upon the question of
intelligence.. The Institute should decide what was the
power which could change one mechanism into another, and
until they had done that, they had done nothing. They
should study the principle at the base of all combinations,
and that principle must be intelligence, but where that
intelligence came from was another question. It was the
theological idea which divided them into two camps ; there
were a thousand answers to Darwin, if they once went down
to the fundamental causes at work.
Mi'. E. Charlesworth, F.G.S., said that when Mr. Dunbar
Heath remarked that the paper was “lucid,” he felt in¬
clined to say, “hear, hear,” with some little misgiving in his
own mind, and there was force in the objection that the con¬
tents of the paper were not what might have been expected
from the title. The author seemed to be an evolutionist, but
not one of the Darwinian type ; he separated evolution from
natural selection, but the same view had been previously
largely taken by philosophers. So far he could agree with
Mr. Heath that the author was lucid. But when Mr. Wake
went into metaphysics, and said that nature was an organism,
then he began to feel a little misty. The Rev. Dunbar Heath
had stated the common ideas about organic and inorganic,
but the author did not mean that. There must have been
some transcendental idea in the mind of the author when he
said that nature was an organism ; he hoped that some ex¬
planation would be given of what he meant. Much had been
said about the'Vast gap between the intellect of man and that
of the lower animals. On that point he thought that the
philosophical world was sadly at fault in not pushing investi¬
gation further, and attempting to solve the problem vas to the
intellectual powers of the lower animals. He had seen wonder¬
ful intelligence exhibited by the lower animals in the streets of
London. A few days ago he looked on with a crowd of people,
at two cats boxing with one another, and nothing could
have been more astonishing than their cleverness ; they seemed
to thoroughly enjoy it, and stopped at once when the show¬
man waved his hand. Dogs have wonderful intelligence. He
had a friend at Ipswich of the name of Catt, who was very
fond of sporting. Mr. Catt had a dog who would only point
at the particular kind of game his master went after at the
time ; when his master wanted to shoot larks, the dog would
take no notice of hares or rabbits. How could such actions
be separated from a reasoning faculty ? He wished that the
Royal Society would appoint a committee, to ask all the
people engaged in teaching animals to give up their secrets,
either with or without payment, and get them to describe the
process of education ; then let the committee try experiments
for fifteen or twenty years, and see whether the acquired
knowledge of the animals taught was hereditary, and to what
extent. It ought to be done. No real attempt had ever yet
been made to fathom the question of the intellectual powers
of animals.
Dr. C. Carter Blake, F.Gr.S., lecturer on anatomy at West¬
minster Hospital, said that he had just called to mind a little
proverb of Cuvier’s, that before building a foundation they
should sweep a little clean. They ought to go into the mean¬
ing of the terms used in the discussion. Physiologists did not
use the word “ evolution ” to denote the descent of species
from species, but as the reverse of epigenesis, and the word
had been artificially warped within the last few years. Next
they had the delicious word “biology,” which was beautiful
Greek, and did not mean “ life in general,” but “ the lifetime
of the individualit meant much the same as “ biography.”
There were two little passages in the paper containing facts
which seemed to contradict the theory that men might have
been produced from apes by natural selection. The higher
apes, for instance, the gorilla and the chimpanzee, have a
fissure in the brain not at all possessed by man. He did not say
that the fissure was present in the ourang, but it was present in
the higher apes, and absent in manhe could not conceive of any
slow change which would abolish that fissure. In the ourang -
it was practically absent. Again, there was a difference in
the structure of one of the bones of the thumb in man, from
the same bone in apes. The bone in man has a facet on its
surface. If any apes were born with a tendency to have a
facet on this particular bone, it would tend to make his,
hand less useful for any purpose. No external influence
would tend to produce such a facet.' Every slow change
in the bone, would tend to make it more difficult
for the ape to survive, and more likely for him to die,
on the theory of Mr. Darwin that the fittest have the
greatest tendency to live. It was unfortunate that they knew
so little about the intellect of apes. They seemed to have
plenty of intelligence. When he was in Central America
some years ago, he tried to educate a specimen of the common
spider monkey of the district, and after a time the monkey
could do nearly anything a dog could do ; there was a great
improvement in the moral and intellectual qualities of the
animal, which at last could express a series of ideas which he
did not know before wTere in the mental repertory of apes.
Lastly, in the oldest geological remains of man, they had
found no links which went lower in the series than men now
living ; there was nothing in geology to show that the ancient
form of man more nearly approached the ape, than the forms
of men at present existing. At all events there was only one
reliable exception ; he referred to the remains found in the
Belgian bone caves. There were some American “ finds ” it
was true, but he had reason for classing them with the
“ Jumping Frog ” from Calaveras County. (Laughter).
Mr. A. L. Lewis said that he should like to ask Mr. Wake
what was the cause of the general movement of evolution of
which he had spoken ? To speak of' evolution and remain
silent as to the cause was like speaking of a steam-engine
without any steam or water in it.
The Chairman said that, according .to Mr. Heath, organic
matter must be living ; a piece of coal was organic, yet it
was not living. Mr. Wake* in his paper, had not said any¬
thing about the organic differences between man and the
ape ; the fore-arms of the ape were twice as long as the arms
of man, and the brain in the ape was not only smaller, but
compressed. The ape had the same number of teeth as man ;
he thought, but was not sure that his memory served him
rightly, that what were called the “ dog teeth ” were different
in the ape. Then there was the jaw-bone of the ape, which
had a bone in the edge not found in man, likewise the small
perforation in the os sacrum. He would call upon Mr. Wake
for his reply.
Mr. Wake, in reply, said that there might he some truth in
the objection of Mr. Heath that the connection between the
title of the paper and the subject-matter was not very appa¬
rent, but still he thought the title to be a very justifiable one.
He thought that Mr. Heath would employ his time better if,
instead of teaching apes to play croquet, he trained them up
as servants* good housemaids being so difficult to obtain !
As to the word “ spontaneous,” he had used it in the ordinary
sense ; that is to say, the thing makes its appearance sud¬
denly, and it cannot be explained why. Mr. Heath had said
that he did not believe all nature to be organic, and that the
organic character first showed itself with colloidal matter; he
(Mr. Wake) meant to convey the idea that all nature may have
had an organic origin, although it ceased to be organic at a
certain point. A plrfnt ^consisted of organic matter, but when
it died its components might be resolved again into matter
which was not organic. On the same principle, every part of
nature might once have been organic, but not every part as it
now exists. Mr. Burke had said—“ Admit intelligence at
first, and that explains everything else.” Well, he (Mr.
Wake) believed that an Intelligent Being, in some sense,
originated nature ; if, however, Mr. Burke meant that the
said Being had laid down a certain plan, and that nature had
been developed in accordance with it, by certain laws, he
could not agree with him. Of course, if they only knew all
about that Intelligent Being, they could then explain every¬
thing. He did not believe that the said Intelligent Being
had the power to turn one thing into another totally different.
Mr. Oharlesworth had expressed himself as unable to grasp
the special purpose for which the paper was written, and had said
that he (the author) was an evolutionist,'and not an advocate of
natural selection. It was true that he thought natural selection
had had comparatively little influence in producing the world
they saw around them ; he thought that the world as a whole
had a basis of organic life within it, and those who care¬
fully read his paper would be able to gather the idea he
intended to convey. He agreed that the intellectual capacity
of animals ought to be carefully inquired into ; he thought
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
fi0Y. 15, 1872.
that they had reason and intellectual faculties of every kind
just like man, only they could not develope it to the same
extent because they had no “ spiritual insight.” They know
a man when they see him, but cannot distinguish the various
qualities- which men can separate in their own minds, and
generalise into the conception of man. An animal would
know a blue colour, but could not separate the idea of blue
from the object, yet most, if not all savages had names for
colours. Dr. Garter Blake had suggested the use of the word
“ derivation” in place of “ evolution ; ” the word “ deriva¬
tion ” did not express the idea in his (Mr. Wake’s) mind ; his
idea was that of “ necessary development.” Mr. Lewis bad
asked him what was the cause of a cause, and that was going
too far back. With reference to the remarks of Dr. Charnock
about the differences between the brain of man and the ape,
he only wished to say that he thought that man could not
have come from the ape by a process of natural selection;
there must have been a special creation, or a development in
accordance with organic necessity.
The proceedings then closed.
A SWEDENBORGIAN MINISTER ON SPIRITS.
On Sunday evening, November 3rd, the Rev. Mr. Austin
lectured at the Swedenborgian Church, near Camberwell-new¬
roadrailway station, London, on “The Spiritual Man.” He
said that his previous discourses had been arranged to lead up
to this one, and he had striven to show that*the spirit of man
was a substantial thing, living in a substantial world. The
spiritual world beyond the grave was not separated from this
one by thousands of miles, but was near and round about it;
it could not be seen by mortal eye, because only the bodily
senses of man are operative ; the relation of the spirit world to
the natural world is like that of cause and effect, analogous in
some respects to the relation between the soul and the body.
In considering the subject of the nature of man and his
destiny, the most important issues were at stake. An en¬
gineer might show a man a costly machine, beautiful to the
natural eye, but before the observer could express any opinion
as to the value of the machine, he would ask, “ What is this
machine made for, and does it effect the object of its manufac¬
ture ? ” If it were a failure no word of praise would be forth¬
coming. On the same principle it would be reasonable to ask
“ Why was man made?” The sceptic would say that man
was the head of the animal kingdom, that he had to profit by
the teachings of experience, to lead a sober, industrious, and
moral life, and thus to accomplish his destiny. As to a life
beyond the present, it was a matter of conjecture, about which
it was idle to reflect. The Christian who denies the spirit and
the next world to have substance and form, is in an unsatis¬
factory state of mind, and his difficulties are increased by sup¬
posing the soul to be in a torpid state until the Day of Judg¬
ment ; it causes him to believe the present wcfrld to be much
the best and most real, and makes him look upon the future
life as a matter of disagreeable necessity. They, of the New
Church, believed man to be a spiritual being, already living in
the spiritual world, but covered with an earthly body, and
this belief was a source of joy. None but the materialist
would argue that the body was the real man, and all the
greatest thinkers had come to the; conclusion that the body
was governed by the living spirit within. The body of man
is at last put away in the ground, because the man—the thing
that thinks, feels, and loves—has gone—gone to his spiritual
home. The body is a thing to honour, and is a fit instrument
for the expression of the soul, still the Master had said that
the beau ideal of a wicked man is one who says—“ Soul, take
thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.” The Scriptures recog¬
nised no interval between death and the life to come ; the
God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, was described as the God,
not of thp dead, but of the living, and in the parable of Dives
and Lazarus, the wicked man was described as passing at
once into the spirit world in a living state. There was no¬
thing in the Scriptures about an intermediate state of torpor.
Most people believe that at first the earth was a huge seething
mass of molten matter, out of which the mineral kingdom
developed itself; on this something higher was planted, for
shrubs and flowers began to creep over the barren rocks and
hard soil. Gigantic and beautiful trees came forth, and it
seemed as if God began to raise on this vegetable kingdom
something still higher. The zoophyte and the tiny insect
came into life; the animal kingdom gradually developed, un¬
til at last came the strong lion and the massive elephant, and
lastly, by a natural sequence, man himself. He, like the others,
has to live, and eat, and propagate his species, but, unlike
other animals, he has aspirations. Wise men, like the
late Dr. Arnold, were troubled by the question what is
instinct in animals, but instinct seems to act within
its own little sphere; the beaver builds with ingenuity,
but makes/no appreciable improvement year after year ; the
bee seems to show geometrical and mathematical knowledge
in the construction of its cell, but it builds the same now as it
did a thousand years ago. Man does not work in the same
narrow groove, but makes such startling advances that some¬
times we feel compelled to ask “ What does it mean ? ” The
age of barbarism has gone, and the age of brilliant inven¬
tions is about us ; everything in nature seems to lead to man,
and there he is at its head. If after all this, it be said that
man in the end becomes a mere shadow or ghost, man is at
once made the greatest enigma in the universe. Animals
appear to be contented, but men lament how little they can
do in comparison with what they wikh to do. As the hair
becomes grey, and the limbs totter, and unmistakable indica¬
tions appear that we are going the way of all flesh, then the
question comes with startling force, “ Why all the experiences
of life, if that life is to be dissipated like steam ? ” But if it
be admitted that man is a spiritual being, many dogmas
which are doing much harm will be chased away. God wishes
every man to be happy, and if men will not do right, they
place themselves in a state of misery ; if it be said that God
preordained certain men to live in a slate of everlasting
misery, the dogma makes God more despicable than any
earthly despot. If a man does his duty in life honourably
and nobly, then he is training himself up as an angel, and is
better off than the emperor who lives for the gratification of
his own pleasures. However needful it may be to have
religious faith, faith is not enough ; the belief must be put
into practice. The common dogma about the efficacy of a
death-bed repentance must also be discarded, for everything
in both worlds is steady and progressive. A man all his life
is building the house in which he is to live in the spirit world,
and which cannot be influenced by lip professions, but by acts
committed while he is in a position to say “ I will,” or “ I
will not.” This life is a manufactory for the making of
angels or devils; Swedenborgians believe this, and glory in
the belief.
Miss Godfrey’s Meditjmship.—Miss Godfrey, of 161,
Hampstead-road, N.W., is, as a rule, a very reliable clairvoyant,
for revealing the nature of any disease which may be afflict¬
ing her sitters. Once, .without giving her any information,
we took her to see a lady on whom she had never set eyes be¬
fore, and she proceeded at once to tell her minutely what was
the matter with the inside of her throat, also to describe some
other ailments most accurately, and there is no doubt she saw
all the internal bodily organs of her patient. Whether she
is so successful in all cases, we do not know, but Mr. Coleman,
who has known he? a long time, informs us that her examina¬
tions have usually been very reliable.
Spiritualism and the Press.—We have received a
letter from Peterborough, and a pamphlet from an investi¬
gator, animadverting upon the action of the pi'ess with regard
to Spiritualism. There has been much improvement of late
in the action of the press. The Telegraph recently printed
an honestly written description of a seance; the Standard told
Dr. Carpenter that his assertions about Spiritualism were unre¬
liable/ the Westminster Review has printed a long article
entirely in favour of Spiritualism ; and the Photographic News
and British Journal of Photography said so much in favour
of it, that their more ignorant readers began to complain.
Punch often gives favourable paragraphs, and the abusive
articles in the Saturday Review are far less damaging than
the praise of that journal. Nearly, if not all of the daily
papers have one or more Spiritualists on their literary staff,
and several of the editors admit the phenomena to be real.
Some months ago the editor of the Times asked one of the
article-writers to that journal to go and witness manifesta¬
tions, and report thereon. Although the notice was too short-
several leading gentlemen were enabled to aid the commis¬
sioner to see some capital manifestations, and when the editor
received the article, he did not publish it. Curiously, Spi¬
ritualism spreads more rapidly among literary than scientific
men, owing, perhaps, to the circumstance that scientific men
work very hard and very deeply in grooved lines of thought,
so are not able to accept readily, phenomena utterly at variance
with their previous experience. Literary men may have less
depth of knowledge, but are so used to weighing conflicting
opinions, that they more readily recognise the strength of the
evidence in favour of new truth^.
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1872.
AS I LAYE A THYNKYNGE.
THE LAST LINES OF THOMAS INGOLDSBY. .
As I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge.
Merrie sang the Birde as ske sat upon the spraye
There came a noble Knyghte,
With his hauberke shynynge brighte,
And his gallant heart was lighte,
Free and gaye;
As I laye a-thynkynge, he rode upon his waye.
As I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge,
Sadly sang the Birde as she sat upon the tree!
There seem’d a crimson plain,
Where a gallant Knyghte lay slayne,
And a steed with broken rein
Ban free,
As I laye a-thynkynge, most pitiful to see
As I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge,
Merrie sang the Birde as she sat upon the boughe
A lovely Mayde came bye,
And a gentil youth was nyghe,
And he breathed many a syghe
And a vowe;
As I laye a-thynkynge, her heart was gladsome now.
As I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge,
Sadly sang the Birde as she sat upon the thorne ;
No more a youth was there,
But a Maiden rent her haire,
And cried in sad despaire,
‘ That 1 was borne !’
As I laye a-thynkynge, she perished forlome.
As I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge,
Sweetly sang the Birde as she sat upon the briar
There came a lovely Ohilde,
And his face was meek and mild,
Yet joyously he smiled
On his sire;
As I laye a-thynkynge, a Cherub mote admire.
But I laye a-thynkynge, a-thynkynge, a thynkynge,
And sadly sang the Birde as it perch’d upon a bier
That joyous smile was gone,
And the face was white and wan,
As the downe upon the Swan
Doth appear,
As I laye a-thynkynge—oh! bitter flow’d the tear
As I laye a-thynkynge, the golden sun was sinking,
0 merrie sang that Birde as it glitter’d on her breast
With a thousand gorgeous dyes,
While soaring to the skies,
’Mid the stars she seem’d to rise,
As to her nest;
As I laye a-thynkynge, her meaning was exprest:—
‘‘Follow, follow me away,
It boots not to delay,”—
’Twas so she seem’d to saye,
“ Here is rest! ” Ingoldsby Legends.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, November 7th, a free public meeting
in connection with the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists
was held at the St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerken-
well. Mr. Avery occupied the chair, and there was a large
attendance.
Miss Keeves, trance-medium, gave a few short addresses
under spirit influence. She is insensible while she is speak¬
ing, and spiritual ideas come out through her lips in her own
language. Words which trance-mediums mispronounce when
in their waking state, are usually similarly mispronounced
while speaking under spirit influence. On the other hand,
names and addresses of people unknown to the trance medium,
with accurate particulars about the past lives of the com¬
municating spirits, are sometimes given. Most trance ad¬
dresses seem to be a perplexing mixture of the thoughts and
words of the medium, and the thoughts and words of the
spirit. A spirit mesmerises the medium, and gets his thoughts
through her lips as well as he can, by the exercise of his will¬
power over her.
Miss Keeves, thus under spirit influence, first spoke of the
education of women. She said that if women were better
educated, they would train up better children. Under the
present English system girls leave school at too early an age;
they are taught music, also how to behave in polite society ;
they acquire a taste for novels, but do not learn much that is
really useful. Women ought to be taught to learn, and think,
and act for themselves, and to be more independent, instead
of having the idea drilled into them that they are inferior to
men, and dependent upon men. This would be better for
society at large than the present system of bringing them up
as poor helpless things, as ornamental dolls who go into
hysterics at the sight of a mouse. Lecturers and newspapers
often speak of an audience of “intelligence and beauty,”
meaning that the beauty only belongs to women, but the in¬
telligence to the men, which was a great insult to the women.
If mothers were wiser, wiser men would rise up. It might
be granted that at the present day women were intellectually
inferior to men, but it was the fault of the system which
placed them under such disadvantageous circumstances from
their childhood upwards. If mothers were better and more
intelligent, there would be fewer poor sick drunken half-
idi’otic men, who, by the way, were usually kept and sup¬
ported by their wives. Women being kept down, do not try
to grow in knowledge. The best men were those who had
wise mothers, and had good early lessons implanted in the
mind, never to be eradicated.
Miss Keeves then woke up, and after a time was controlled
by another influence. She then said that it was not wise to
meet the troubles of life half-way, and that the best men were
quite calm in the midst of danger. Once in a fearful storm, when
the passengers on board a sinking ship were crowding into
the boats, one man was quite calm, and made no effort to save
himself ; he was Brooke, the comedian, a man who loved and
trusted God, though he was no theologian; he and the cap¬
tain had the most courage of all. The ruling love often came
out powerfully in the hour of danger. When one of the boats
was being launched a man ran down below to fetch the carpet
bag containing his beloved gold j when he reached the deck,
the captain told him that it was too late, the boat had gone.
Very often, just before the moment of death, individuals saw
all the deeds of their past lives passing before them in a pano¬
ramic view ; under such conditions those who have done evil
tremble, and cannot be calm while passing to the other life.
A Listener—“ Were you on board the ship?”
Miss Keeves, under influence, replied, “ Yes.”#
Another listener remarked—“He could not have been
Brooke. Brooke would have known that he was a tragedian,
and not a comedian.”
Afterwards Miss Keeves was controlled by two other
spirits.
Between the controls, while one spirit was leaving and
another coming, a physical medium sitting about four feet
from Miss Keeves, was violently influenced, a few short, sharp
jerks being given to his arms and body, much to his discom¬
fiture. When Miss Keeves lectured at Islington as reported
in our last, a lady sitting about four feet from her was strongly
influenced while the first spirit was taking control, but not
afterwards. We saw the same lady at the Olerkenwell meet¬
ing now under notice, but on this latter occasion she sat, per¬
haps, four yards from Miss Keeves, with many persons
between, and she vjas not influenced at all. Two persons sat
between Miss Keeves and the physical medium who was
jerked.
At the close we questioned Miss Keeves as to what she
knew in her normal state about the ship which went down
with Mr. Brooke on board. She said that she read the ac¬
counts in the newspapers at the time, but had forgotten the
details. She was not personally acquainted with any of the
people on board, but at her private seances at home three per¬
sons occasionally came and controlled her; one of them
claimed to be the captain, another said he was Mr. Brooke,
and the third stated himself to be a minister of the name of
Draper.
TheeE or four mediums, besides Mrs. Andrews, are now
getting spirit-face manifestations in America.
Mb. J. M. Peebles, the American lecturer on Spiri¬
tualism, who recently visited England, is expected to arrive in
Melbourne, Australia, next month.
M. Constant, who recently visited England, is now in
Smyrna, and we believe intends to write a book on Spiritualism
for readers in Asia Minor and the East.
Mb. Benjamin Coleman, so well known as one of the
oldest and most active workers in the cause of Spiritualism in
England, has been ill, but we are glad to add that he is now
much better.
Thebe is now a large number of Spiritualists -in Brixton
audits neighbourhood; a local society under good manage¬
ment would probably flourish there, and exercise considerable
influence in the district.
A Mr. Flaws is trying to wage war with the members
of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, by
attacking them in the Hackney and Kingsland Gazette. His
qualifications for writing on the subject consist in knowing
nothing about it, he having attended but one very poor seance.
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
13
(tfmespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers,]
TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
SIR,—I am of opinion the following description of a seance
will interest many of your readers, if you can find room
for it.
I bad staying with me a French gentleman who had just
seen enough to convince him that Spiritualism might be true,
and to give him sa strong desire to inquire further. I told
him I had a friend who was a remarkable medium, after
which I had no rest until I promised to accompany him to a
seance. He said on our way,—“ I hope we shall get a com¬
munication from Mrs. ,” alluding to a lady who passed
away under the following most painful circumstances, some
of which were ascertained after the seance. The lady was
about twenty years of age, beautiful, very happy in all her
surroundings, and her young husband was “ all the world to
her.”
In the midst of so much sunshine, a trifling incident brought
on a premature birth. The child and mother did well for a
short time, then serious symptoms set in. The child was given
by the mother into the charge of the grandmother, and her
ring she sent to her sister-in-law, who is an intimate friend of
the gentleman now with me. She never asked for the child
again, after caressing it and bequeathing it to its grandmother,
but slowly, through a period of about ten days, sank, and
passed away.
All I knew before the seance only the fact that the lady
passed away in childbed, and the above statement about the
baby. My friend knew these facts, and the statement about
the ring in addition.
I will now describe the seance, and will call my friend, who
is an artist, by his initial, Mr. A .
The medium, with his wife, Mr. A , and I, sat at the
table. Very shortly, we had well defined and varied raps.
In many cases distinct answers were received to questions put
in French, but not so when put in English.
The medium became entranced ; the process of passing into
the state was painful to behold. He was first controlled by a
French artist, unknown to any of us, afterwards by a French
priest, who was instantly recognised by Mr. A , next he
was powerfully controlled by my mother, and then by my
father and other relatives.
We earnestly pressed them to try and find the lady already
alluded to. I stated how long she had been in the new life,
described her appearance, and what else I supposed would
assist them in finding her. My father, then in control, shook
me by the hand, and said they would try and find ber. I
knew him to be a man of some persistence, and I prayed
earnestly that the search might be successful. They then left
us, and another friend of one present controlled the medium
for a time. I wish I could convey to you a good idea of what
followed, but I cannot. My power is far too inadequate.
The medium became forcibly controlled; and, under great
excitement, appeared anxiously in search of some one, like a
mother looking for a dear lost child in a thick crowd. It
seemed as if the eye nowand then caught the object, and
again lost it. At length, after long, weary search, the one
sought for seemed found, and to prove clearly that the spirit
was the one we desired, all the closing scenes of her life were
gone through wdth strange minuteness.
First, she was ill, with hope beaming before her ; then
stretched on a bed with hope eclipsed and leaving her in
despair; and then, in an intense whisper, she cried, three
times, “ Give me baby,” and passionatey pressed it to
her bosom ; then a time of illness seemed to intervene, after
which she went through the dying scene. To me the scene
was intensely real, and yet difficult to realise. She appeared
to be dead for a time—about five minutes. Next came the
awakening into new life. I am so sorry I can only give the
prose of such a scene. The scene itself was a short but in¬
tensely dramatic poem ; the dim wonder and the dreamy
expression ;of astonishment at her new and strange surround¬
ings, in her complete powerlessness to realise the change.
She said, Why are they all weeping?” After this she went
to Mr. A , with whom she was acquainted, and shook
him warmly by the hand, next laying one hand on his head,
and the other she held out as if exhibiting a ring, and drawing
especial attention to it. I said, “ She is showing a ring, and
wishes you to recognise her.” Then she took hold of his ring
hand, and turned it round and drew attention to his ring.
I again said, “ She cannot get you to acknowledge her.” He
then replied, “ It must be her.” Then his hand was grasped
in great joy. I next asked for a message for her husband.
The medium then wrote, with much seeming difficulty, “,I am
happy ; tell my dear one not to grieve.” She shook hands
again with Mr. A , and stroked his head—then deft us.
The medium was next contiolled by a French soldier, who
introduced himself by a military salute, and, after defending
a position for a time with great energy, at last got wounded,
and fell in Mr. A ’s arms. This scene was a painful one.
The medium was again returned to consciousness, and the
seance ended.
I make no comment on the above, beyond the fact that the
lady died at Brighton, and all the circumstances were com¬
pletely unknown to the medium. John Beattie,
Westbourne-place, Clifton.
THE JEALOUSIES OE MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I was very glad to see the intimation in your last
that, in consequence of mediums being impulsive, passionate
people, they should not be judged by the same standards as
other people, for of all the gusts of passion which sometimes
sweep over them, they are, perhaps, most susceptible to
jealousy—far more so than other persons. I have seen this,
even in the limited range for observation afforded me in the
town in which I live. One very celebrated medium visited
me, whose jealousy of all others I now know to be notorious;
but then his tales strongly prejudiced me against another
medium whom I had only seen once, and it was long before
I discovered that the scandal wras quite without foundation.
I have since found that all experienced Spiritualists are well
acquainted with the extreme susceptibility of mediums to the
passion of jealousy, and this ought to be generally known,
that novices maybe placed on their guard to turn an abso¬
lutely deaf ear to what one medium says about another, who.
possesses the same kind of power. A. F.
CANON CALLOWAY’S PAPER.
Sir,—I have come to the conclusion, after reading Canon
Calloway’s valuable' paper on “ Psychological Phenomena,”
that if one man had fallen asleep in the middle of the Canon’s
exhaustive work, and had not awakened until it was over, he
would have gone home, and said, “ Spiritualism is a delusion.
Canon Calloway says so.” While, if another had slept through,
say three parts, and had woke up to hear the end, he would
have returned to his friends and said, with truth, “ The Canon
is a Spiritualist.” It may be wise to lead on sceptics by
degrees, only they must not be allowed to go to sleep.
Isle of Wight, W. B. T.
INSTINCT AND EXPERIENCE.
Sir,—I am very sorry indeed if I have in any way misre¬
presented my friend, Mr. Alfred R. Wallace’s views on in¬
stinct, but having been out of England for more than two
years, I had not his work before me to refer to. I am very
glad to find from his letter that he is inclined to take a more
“spiritual” view of nature than I had supposed, and I am
glad to see no reference to that clumsy hypothesis of accumu¬
lated experience inherited, to account for instinct, a notion as
incredible, insufficient, and unsatisfactory as Mr. Darwin’s
pangenesis. Naturalists really seem to he getting into the
land of dreanft, and, in a restless desire to account for nature,
are forced to fall back upon mechanical theories such as that
of natural selection, and the theories of accumulated experi¬
ences to account for both mind and instinct. Mr. Wallace
thinks w6 should not believe in any instinct “ until all other
possible modes of explanation have been exhausted.” But
why this unwillingness to accept instinct as the solution?
Why not accept the solution by instinct as he accepts the
solution of certain other phenomena by the agency of spirits
until proof is exhibited to the contrary ? And I am surprised
that a naturalist should talk so loosely in regard to the higher
and lower animals. What does he mean ? Does he mean to
say that the dog by his side is really a higher development
than the fly “so wonderfully and fearfully made,” that is
dancing in the air over his head ? Does he mean to infer that
the ant and the bee are really of a lower class in form and
nature than the cow and the pig, however they may be classi¬
fied for convenience? Milton describes the angels as acting
more by instinct, man more by reason and experience; and
which is really the higher, the intuitive or the mechanical ?
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
I appeal to Spiritualists. In regard to birds, is not every act
in respect to an end out of the range of any possible experi¬
ence ? How could the young bird know that the nest was a
building, to begin with ? or that love would end in such an
astonishing result as a number of eggs, for which it had
already provided the nest ? But, surely, it is needless to
pursue the fact and argument. But in regard to Mr. Wallace’s
statement—“ And I suppose Mr. Atkinson himself would
admit that each case of supposed instinct is to be judged by
itself, according to the facts of that case”—no doubt, but if
you rest there it is empiricism, not induction. You must take
in the whole range of similar and associated facts, and compare
them, and see how one may throw light upon the other, and
see how exceptional instances may exhibit the rule; and thus
arrive at principles and the common root and law. And,
having closely examined and weighed the sequence of the
facts in regard to mind, we find that, essentially and funda¬
mentally, the human mind is as much an instinct and
intuitive as perception, or as the determined actions of the
bird or bee; but that as a mere “ state of consciousness,” it is
neither an efficient power nor a guiding principle, since all the
power and guiding principle is unconscious, instinctive, and
emotional as cerebral action, call it blind if we will, but acting
towards ends, as with the energies engaged in the formation of
the body in the first instance, that has the instinct to supply
its needs. And the sense from the same is the conscious
accompaniment. But, for aught we can tell, life might go on
just the same, unconsciously, that is, automatically, as was
supposed of the “ lower animals ” by Descartes.
Henby G. Atkinson.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
Spiritualism has been making very rapid progress in
Australia during the last ten years, and has a con¬
siderable number of adherents in Melbourne. It is the
old story-over again—newspapers publishing the facts,
and very carefully saying, in every other paragraph,
that the editor does not believe in them, but that the
witnesses are most reliable people; witnesses stating
what they have seen, but afraid to give their names,
except in privacy; general outcries that Dr, This or Pro¬
fessor That should examine and pronounce sentence, as
if intelligent private individuals had no ears or eyes
of their own.
The following is a leading article from the Mount
Alexander Mail, a daily paper, dated Castlemaine,
August 27th, 1872 :—
Castlemaine has for a long time been considered by the
votaries of the creed to be the Delphi, or, better still, the
Mecca of Spiritism. Some of their recent manifestations have
been vouchsafed to the faithful who have consulted the pre¬
siding oracles of the locality, while some of the most gifted
and successful mediums have gone out from it to offer their
testimony to the heathen and the sceptic in less favoured
quarters. Our readers, therefore, will probably not be taken
by surprise at the perusal of a very curious document which
we publish in another column, purporting to be nothing less
than the depositions of witnesses whose curiosity had led them
to investigate some of the reputed mysteries for themselves.
We need not say that the depositions are perfectly genuine
and authentic, and those who recognise the signatures attached
to them will not require to be told that they belong to observers
peculiarly qualified by a rather sceptical temperament to take
part in such investigations. Montaigne says that the greater
part of the worshipping world is made up of people who
‘‘ believe that they believe, not knowing what it is to believe,”
while Moore speaks of the tangled doctrines which
B Simple votaries do on trust receive,
While craftier feign belief, till they believe.”
And a yet third class are referred to by Butler, who shrewdly
observes that in these matters
“ The pleasure is sometimes as great
In being cheated as to cheat,
As lookers on feel most delight,
Who best perceive a juggler’s sleight.”
From what we know of R. C. and J. S. E. and 0. P. H., we
should very much doubt whether they would consent to be
placed in this classification at all, and as for ranking them
among the so-called deadened-brains of Spiritualism, the
Nov. 15, 1872.
language which they use in recounting their experiences at the
seances which they detail is a sufficient protest against any
such suspicion. They are not Spiritualists in any sense of
the word, and their only object in giving pubheity to their ex¬
periences is to eliminate those elements of humbug from them
by attracting scientific attention to them. The seances at.
which they gathered the observations they record were
three in number, but it is pretty generally known that they
have had more frequent opportunities, which they have used
with the same result apparently, namely, to convince them
that there is something in the extraordinary manifestations
which they have witnessed, that remains to be satisfactorily
accounted for on rationalistic principles. The proceedings
are given in their depositions, and all that the outside com¬
mentators can say is that the operations appear to have been
carried on in a bona-fide spirit, and that every reasonable pre¬
caution was taken to prevent trickery or self-deception. Doors
were locked, windows sealed, matches provided, operators
searched, and everything done that could have been done to
guard against imposition. And yet, in spite of all, the pheno¬
mena which they relate are alleged to have occurred. A
barrow-wheel was introduced on the operating table, then a
flitch of bacon, then a watering-pot, then a brick, and other
articles. The presence of the light-rays is said to interfere
with the manifestations, which the operators themselves at¬
tribute to animal magnetism, and not to spirits at all. Hence
it was necessary to operate in the dark, but on one occasion it
is alleged that the matches were struck so instantaneously,
that one object, the quarter of bacon, was seen still gliding in
the air on its <fvay to the table, and a book opening. Particular
stress is laid upon the fact that no invocation to spirits was used,
and, indeed, that none of the party are professed Spiritualists.
The whole thing was investigated from a rationalistic point of
view, and all that is asked for is a rationalistic explanation.
Of course the first impulse is to say that the only explanation
which human reason can accept is to put it down to trickery.
We have no experience of the laws which govern the transit
of solid bodies being violated, but we have ample experience
of persons of ’cute intelligence being deceived by clever con¬
juring. Therefore it is more reasonable to believe that B. 0.
and J. S. and C. P. H. were the victims of a cleYer delusion
than it would be to beheve' that a wheelbarrow can come
through a solid wall without the requisite driving force. But
to this objection there is, necessarily, the counter-argument—
what do we know of matter, or of the laws of matter ? Or,
rather, how do we know that there is nothing new to be dis¬
covered about those laws ? There was a time when the power
of the magnet was unknown; and even now who can say what
that power is ? It is quite conceivable that a savage might
look upon it as aWrick, yet every child is satisfied that it is not.
What is matter, and what proof is there that matter exists out¬
side of our own consciousness ? Absolutely none. There can
be absolutely none. And if the domain of consciousness can
be enlarged, if new states of consciousness can be produced
by the attitude usually observed at these seances, who is to say
that to the operators these manifestations are not as real and
as genuine as any of the ordinary phenomena occurring about
us are to ordinary observers, that is to say, to observers having
their consciousness in its ordinary state. But the subject is
too complex for an article of this kind, nor do we make the
slightest pretence to offer a rationalistic explanation of the
mystery, supposing that it is not a trick. For our own part,
it would be mere affectation to say that we believe in the actual
occurrence of the phenomena that our correspondents attest.
We do not for one moment doubt their testimony, be it ob¬
served, but to say that we have an intellectual conviction of
the truth, or rather of the reality of the occurrences, would be
to class ourselves with the ordinary herd that, as Montaigne
says, “ believe that they believe, not knowing what it - is to
believe.” The manifestations which are related by them are
only a few examples of similar manifestations which are testi¬
fied to by competent witnesses in all parts of the civilised
world. Indeed, the weight of testimohy„which they have re¬
ceived is quite equal to that upon which religions have been
founded before now. For that matter Christianity itself is not
so favourably situated to meet the sceptic as Spiritualism.
For the so-called Spiritualistic miracles have been wrought in
a scientific age, have been examined by scientific men, and
are believed in and attested to by witnesses of every degree of
intelligence, in numbers far in excess of those commanded by
Christianity at a corresponding period of its publication.. And
some of these alleged wonders are very similar in character,
too, to the Christian miracles; that is to say, if the Christian
miracles are true, the Spiritualist has a claim to say that
Nov. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
his miracles may be true also. But it is sufficient to observe
in the present case that none of those who took part at the
Castlemaine- seances are Spiritualists, or attribute the pheno¬
mena to spirits.
The following account of one of the seances is from
the Mount Alexander Mail, of August 28th, and is
signed, “ J. S. E.:
On the evening of Tuesday, 6th August, accompanied by
Mr. G. W. 0. and Mr. and Mrs. H., I visited the house of Mr.
P. at his invitation, to obtain, if possible, further evidence of
the novel manifestations of force which had greatly surprised
myself and friends on the Tuesday evening previous. We
reached the house at 7.30 p.m. The night was dark, but fine.
Within five minutes we were introduced to the room we occu¬
pied on Sunday evening, Mr. C. entering first, followed by
Mrs. P., Mr. H., and myself. We satisfied ourselves that the
apartment, in size about 12 ft. square by 10 ft. high, contained
nothing beyond its ordinary furniture ; there were six chairs,
an uncovered table, a sofa, and a'sewing machine standing
upon the carpeted floor. Upon the mantelpiece we saw some
chimney ornaments, upon the walls two or three pictures, and
the windows were curtained. As soon as the remainder of
the party had entered, I locked- the door, and, to give addi¬
tional formality to the fastening, a seal was put upon it by Mr..
H. and Mr. P. The window was examined, so were the walls
and floor, and all proved intact. We then, six in number,
seated ourselves at the table. Mrs. P. had her back to the
window, Mr. C. sat at her left hand, I at her right, upon my
right Mr. P. sat, and Mr. and Mrs. H. completed the circle.
Mr.-H. and I provided ourselves with matches, in order to
light the room at an instant’s notice, and the candle was
blown out. We sat silently for a minute or two, when the
table gave unmistakable signs of agitation. Loud taps were
heard, accompanied by intermittent noises, as a scratching
under the table in different places, every now and then
relieved by tremors of varying intensity. Mrs. P.’s right hand
was all the time on the table, and touching my left. After
ten minutes had elapsed, during which there was no invoca¬
tion of spirits, nor was the observance of any particular atti¬
tude of mind imposed upon us, or even suggested during the
evening,. Mrs. P. uttered what resembled a half-suppressed
sigh, and the same instant there fell upon the middle of the
table' ,a heavy piece of ironwork. The noise did not suggest
the fall from any considerable height; it seemed rather to be
the result Of the article being placed on the table by a strong
hand. We observed afterwards that the table was not much
indented. Within two seconds of the report a light was
struck, and we found before us a large barrow-wheel, weighing,
as Mr. P. subsequently informed us, sixteen and a half pounds.
We were told that the wheel had been last seen lying in the
yard at a distance not less than 50 ft. from where we sat. It
is noticeable that indications of nervous exhaustion were now
apparent in Mrs. P. After a few minutes’ conversation, in
the course of which it was mentioned that this wheel had found
its way into the room by the same agency on a former occasion
along with a family Bible, a ten-gallon cask, and some other
things, we looked to the fastenings on the door and window,
and once more inspected the walls, but finding no clue to the
mystery we extinguished the solitary candle for the second
time and found ourselves wondering silently in the dark. The
rapping continued as before, but was varied this time by the
candlestick sliding once or twice across the table, and by Mrs.
P. being violently dragged to the floor. About fifteen minutes
had passed thus when a sudden exclamationfrom that lady
caused Mr. H. and myself simultaneously to strike our matches.
We were quick enough to see before it actually touched the
table a hind-quarter of bacon, which appeared to . have been
projected diagonally from the upper part of the front wall over
Mrs. P.’s head. Her hands had not been removed from the
table. It was again ascertained that the seal and lock upon
the door, and the fastening upon the window, were untouched,
and that the walls, absurd as it may seem, were to all appear¬
ance intact also. The cause of these extraordinary manifesta¬
tions I am altogether unable to comprehend, much less to ex¬
plain. But in common with everyone who has witnessed them,
I am firmly persuaded that if freedom from deception or im¬
posture on the part of Mr. and Mrs. P. can make them so,
these manifestations are perfectly genuine.
A slight remark in the above is strongly corrobora¬
tive to us of the truth of the narrative. When oneDf
the objects was coming, tho medium “ uttered what
resembled a half-suppressed sigh.” When a medium
is wholly or partly entranced, the manifestations are
always much stronger than when she is awake. At
seances Mrs. Guppy sometimes ceases to join in the
general conversation, and a question may be put to her
twice, after which she will give a half-suppressed sigh,
and answer as if waking from a dream. We believe
she is never wholly entranced at seances when strangers
are present, but waking her by questions out of her
occasional states of semi-trance tends to weaken the
manifestations.
Mr. D. D. Home is in Paris, and we regret to announce
Ihat he is very ill.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal, price eight cents per
copy, published weekly by Mr. S. S. Jones, Fifth-avenue,
Chicago, contains a great deal of interesting information about
Spiritualism in America.
Mr. George Sexton, M.A., M.D., a great man among
the Secularists, has recently announced himself to be a con¬
vert to Spiritualism, to the great disgust of Mr. Bradlaugh
and his friends.
Next Thursday evening, at half-past eight o’clock, Miss
Louisa Hudson, trance-medium, will give an address, under
spirit influence, to the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists,
St. John’s Temperance Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell.
Death.—Mr. Enmore Jones will give a lecture, on the
28th of November, at eight o’clock, at the Hall, Corporation-
row, Clerkenwell. The basis of the lecture will be the reply he
made to an essay “ On Death,” read at the Dialectical Society
last month, when “ the immortality of man,” says Mr. Jones,
“ was ignored, and the advantage of committing suicide to
escape from pain recommended.”
Mrs. Guppy’s Mediumship.—Mrs. Guppy, who of late,
of course, has been unable to sit for manifestations, has? begun
to hold seances once more, and her very powerful medinmship
will, doubtless, before long reach its full strength again. A
fortnight ago she held a seance at which a few raps only were
obtained, but last Sunday, at another seance, one rather large
batch of flowers (chrysanthemums) was brought by the spirits,
after which there were some raps.
Mrs. Bassett’s Mediumship.—Miss Kate Fox is the
best medium for spirit raps in this country, but of London
mediums, Mrs. Bassett, of Thornham-grove, Stratford, is one
of the best. She, however, gives most of her time to dark
seances. Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger used to be the best
medium for raps and daylight manifestations, and she was
always very sure of getting good results under the very worst
conditions. We wish that Mrs. Bassett and her spirits would
cultivate daylight seances for raps and physical manifesta¬
tions ; there is a want of such a medium at the present time
in the movement,.
Many genuine spirit photographs have been obtained in
America, aiid a few in England. There are numberless
methods of producing artificial ghost pictures, and a few at¬
tempts have been made by unprincipled photographers who
are not Spiritualists, to deceive Spiritualists with the same.
Cartes de visile can be turned out at an expense varying from
lid. to 3d. each, according to the quality of the work and ma¬
terials, and the usual selling price is Is. Hence all the shop¬
keepers concerned in the sale get excessively large profits. When
spirit photographs are' announced, it is well not to be in a
hurry to buy them till full inquiries have been made as to
their character and source.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So many letters are sent to us from strangers, that in future we
cannot undertake to reply to them, except in print in this column.
Enoch.—The books received. Will review them soon.
F. A. B.—The argument of your letter is good, but its tone rather
too aggressive. There was nothing in the very fair and gentle¬
manly statement to call for sharp allusions to “parsons.” Improve
its tone a little.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
EAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Or F. J. T., 21, East Ascent, St. Leonard’s-on-Sea.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 15, 1872.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every .successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the. circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed' lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; .it is not yet known why. .Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influeflce.
5. ' Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives,
the higher spirits more power to cpme to the circle,' and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,’' and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very'sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangefs present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOB, &c.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ ' s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests. ...   ... 0 7 01 Unrivalled Black Doe. 1 1-0
Tweed Suit   ... £2 10s. Qd.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous .and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Haebis, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; Or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism
in England, by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
had at one Shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
DEDICATED (iypermission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly'be Published, price 2s. 6d., bound in cloth extra, with a
Portrait-of the Smuggler, engraved from drPhotograph by James Pakt-
bidge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Rattenbury,->of Beer, Devon. Edited by
George Fraser, with numerous explanatory notes by Miss Elizabeth Traies.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “The Graphic’’for
9th December, 1871, and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the laje Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten-
bury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H.,Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Wate.r,
low, Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, the Hon.
Mark Rolle, .1. Gwynne Holford, Esq., M.P., Dr. John Brown (“ Rab and His
Friends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq., John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., O.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. Amelia Lewis, JohnC. Freund, Esq., &c., &c., &c.
As only a limited number of copies will be printed, persons interested
are requested to,send their names and addresses as soon as possible to Mr.
George Fraser, 3,, Middleton-road, Camden-road, London, N., or to the
publishers, British and Colonial Publishing Company, Limited, 81a, Fleet-
street, E.C.-
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, Cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Association, Seances, &o., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
T>EVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
-■-* FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist”:—
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq  15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”     10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq  ...    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S  5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox   5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)  '.   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder  10 0
Miss E. Ponder     1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd   10 0
“Longfellow”     1 0 0
Mr. Withall ...'  1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird    10 0
Mr. George Dawson ... ...   10 0
Mr.1 Dawson Rogers   10 0
Mr. Rogers     10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald   ..; ... 10 0
Mrs. Gunyon  10 0
 8 0 0
“A Friend,” Temple  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq   .330
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S  ... ...   3 3 0
James Wason, Esq   ...     ... 3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness   2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs.. Edmiston -     2 2 0
“■Bitterness”... ...   ... ...    2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq.   :  2 0 0
“A'Friend,” Manchester ... 1: ;   110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.  1 1 0
E. Musgrave, Esq  110
A Friend,” F.R.S       ’   10 0
Miss Kislingbury ...   '  1 0 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq    10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  j      10 0
Miss J. H. Douglas         10 0
“AFriend”    /.  10 0
J. Craig, Esq '   ...   ... ... ... 0 10 0
G, D. (Habkney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan .Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-vjllas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Eninofe-park, South Norwood,. S.E.* .
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Eraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, FuMwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
- above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
