SEaiSTEBED AS A NsWSPAPEa.
Jlttospaptr rututeded lutilj j^jjtuluahsw m ^niaht*
THE “SPIRITUALIST" is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK :
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
UiS.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 215.~(Vol. IX.—-Np. 10.) LONDON : FMDAYj OCTOBER 6j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Contents.
Misunderstood Scientific Truth ' ... 109
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury 109
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade   ...   ... 110
Poetry:—The Red Man.     ... ... ... ... 116
Correspondence“ Scientific Accuracy ’’— Psychological
Experiences—Seership and Reincarnation—Miss Lottie
Fowler’s Departure for America—A Mysterious Face
—Spiritualism and Berkeleyism—Spiritualism at Pen¬
zance—Mr. Park Harrison’s Vision—Divination among
tha Natives on the Zambesi    ...116
The British Association on Professor Barrett’s Paper... ... 118
Newspaper License    ... 114
Another Incident in the Slade Case ...    ...114
Direct Spirit Writing     ...  114
A Bank Note Experiment. By Sir Charles Isham, Bart.... 114
Arrival in England of “ Maggie Fox ”  114
Conversazione of the National Association of Spiritualists 116
Notre Dame De Lourdes ...  11*
The Daily Mews on the Prosecution of Dr. Slade 120
Paragraphs:—An African Urim and Thummim, 109; Scien¬
tific Investigators, 109; A Man and Dog Story, 118; Is
the Planchette a Devil ? 113; Serious Thinkers, 113 ;
Spiritualism in the North of England, 115; Professor
Huxley on Evolution, 118; Spiritualism in Dalston,
119; Spiritualism at the British Association, 120;
Spiritualism and Professing Men of Science, 120;
Spiritualism at Home, 120; Professor S. B. Brittain on
Organisation     ... 120
DR. SLADE.
“THE SPIRITUALIST”OP Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr.- A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.,; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2|-d., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
TO INVALIDS AND OTHERS.
AN EXPERIENCED PHYSICIAN, prac¬
tically acquainted with all systems of Medicine, offers
a comfortable RESIDENCE to a Spiritualist, on moderate
terms, in a most salubrious locality, combining the advantages-
of town and country, with view of the sea and pleasing inland
scenery. Apply to Dr. William Hitchman, 47, South-road,
Waterloo, near Liverpool.
TEMPERANCE HALL, HORSEDGE STREET,
OLDHAM.
On Sunday, October 1, Miss Longbottom, of Halifax, will
give TWO ADDRESSES in the Trance State in the above
H all at 2.30 and 6 p.m. Collection at the close of each address.
The presence and support of all friends is respectfully invited.
The day before the above (Saturday, September 30) there
will be a TEA MEETING in the Meeting Room, Waterloo-
street, and it is expected that Miss Longbottom will be present.
Arrangements are being made to secure the services of Mr.
Fitton and family who, no doubt, will add much enjoyment
to the meeting. Tea on the tables at 5 o’clock. Tickets, 9d.
each; admission after tea, 3d.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Just published, a New Song.
Remembrance (embossed title), 4s. in a
flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
"DIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
JL> 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Lettersfof Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays-the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS EAYENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
, ‘ INTO SPIRITUALISM.
/ ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British Mdtional Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Bar rister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President—
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for October, 1876.
Wednesday, 4th.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, 6th.—Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse;
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Booms:—14, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.-
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aftecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several .well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of hooks in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
MRS. BASSETT’S SEANCES.
Arrangements have been made with Mrs. Bassett to give
three Special Seances at the Rooms of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on
the last Thursday evenings in September, October, and
November. Tickets of admission—Members Is. each, or 2s.
for the series ; Non-members, Is. 6d. each, or 3s. for the series.
To be obtaiued on application to the Hon. Secretary at the
Rooms of the Association.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES—OCTOBER, 1876.
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, lOffi.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 13th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30.
Monday, 16th.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m;
Thursday, 16th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance, Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 20th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 25th,—Library Committee, at C.30 p.m.
Thursday, 26th.—Mr. Blackbi.ru’s Free Seance, Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p m.
Friday, 21th.—^Experimental Reseaich Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members are admitted to the Seances by ticket at a
nominal charge.
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Collen, Esq.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham. Bart.
HenryD. Jencken, E°q., M.R.T.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List of Contributors to 3rd October, 1876.
£ ». d.
C. B., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. (forwarded
direct to Mr. Green) 50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze   25 0 0
Charles Blackburn-      20 0 0
William Tebb, Esq.    10 10 0
“Nicodemus”    10 10 0
Thomas Grant Esq  10 10 0
Countess of Caithness   10 10 0
Alexander Calder, Esq   5 0 0
P. R. Harrison, Esq  3 3 0
Mrs. Catherine Berry     2 2 0
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq  2 2 0
James Bowman, Esq  2 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.  110
Miss Ponder  110
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A  110
W. R. T  110
H. Collen, Esq      10 0
R. Glendinning, Esq  10 0
William H. Harrison, Esq  10 0
A. C. Swinton    10 0
John Lament, Esq    10 0
Miss Kislingbury   0 10 6
T. S   0 10 0
Augustus Johnston, Esq    0 10 6
From a German  0 6 0
Per Mr, James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Mr. J. Ji Morse—
“ The Greater Human,” Sunday. Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
“ How does the Soul become Individualised? ” Monday,
Oct. 2, at 7.30 p.m.
MR. John Hare—
“The Coming Time and the Coming Man,” Sunday,
Oct. 8, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison—
“ Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell ” (continuation of
previous lecture), Sunday, Oct. 15, at 7 p.m.
Miss H. Longbottom (of Halifax)—
“ Who Does it All, and How is it Done ?” Wednesday,
Oct. 18, at 7.30 p.m.
“ Salvation according to Spiritualism,” Oct. 22, at 3
p.m.
“ God the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever,”
Sunday, Oct. 22, at 7 p.m.
Daybreak, 29th September, 1876, viz.:—
£ s.
Miss Jane Jennings   0 5
Mr. W. Jennison     1 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture    2 4
N.V    0 8
A Grateful One   1 0
M. A. B  0 10
F. M     0 2
Mrs. Col. Boyd   0 10
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10
Col. P. Greek   1 1
Mr. Beckett  0 2
Mr. R. Wortley   1 10
J. F. O     0 10
Dr. Thomas Hayle  1 1
Mr. D. Richmond   0 6
Mr. D. Burgess    0 2
d.
0
0
5
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
10 19 5
Mr. John Walton—
“ The Lessons of Spiritualism," Sunday, Oct. 29, at 7
P,m’ ' e
Admission free. A collection to defray expenses.
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can be forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon, treasurer, or to Mr, Thomas Blyton
hon, sec.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 6, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder s-ntlL, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., «2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin K., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall,Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, fiolder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Mjss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Pai'k-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs.G.N.,Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. . Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
PrinceEmile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Alde-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassois a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mnie. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, us. West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Lekisic, Germany.'
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D.,634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. OroWell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
W.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, Now York, U.S.A,
W. L._Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Pafis.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-lane,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdhe. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Baysw’ater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—lAts. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of ibis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALLS VI EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simekin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
AUMF TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c, used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATSHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram,
MR. CHARLES 1. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above. -
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dipsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual .Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold P0BLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will he held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honoru,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l&d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen,.scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. G. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Netting hill, W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
TO BOOK COLLECTORS.
CHARLES LOWE, NEW AND SECOND¬
HAND BOOKSELLER, 1 and 3, Ann-street, Bir¬
mingham, has always on sale upwards of 20,000 vols. of useful
Books in all branches of Literature. Catalogues gratis and
pust free to any address. Libraries and small parcels of
hooks bought for cash.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
lO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H,
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S-, X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6cL: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
xS % mb #1 jSjmjttedfoitt*
VojLujviE Kijme. Kumber Tejh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6th, 1876.
MISUNDERSTOOD SCIENTIFIC TRUTH.
The inflaence of time upon the appreciation by society of
discoveries made in days when they can neither be popularly
received nor appreciated is worth consideration. The
astronomical observations of the Chinese, which for so many
centuries were of little use to themselves or to anybody else,
are now found to be of value to modern men of science, who,
to a certain extent, possess the power of checking the
accuracy of those ancient observations. Galileo was mis¬
understood in his day, and made to recant upon his knees his
discovery that the earth revolves round the sun, yet at the
present time the accuracy of his observations and conclusions
is established. Harvey was subjected to intolerant treatment
for announcing his discovery of the circulation of the blood,
and few of the orthodox medical men of the time accepted
the revelation, or took the trouble to verify his statements.
With examples such as these, those who are engaged in
establishing the truth of the phenomena of Spiritualism,
may quietly and contentedly bear with the misconceptions of
the uninformed, being able to say, “ Time is on our side.”
Facts such as these show that the historical reputations of all
persecuted genuine mediums are safe, if sufficiently detailed
accounts of their s/ances are on record, because those of the
future who shall fully understand the physiological and other
peculiarities of mediums, and the nature of manifestations,
will find such records bristling with points not perhaps
understood at the time they were written, but proving the
genuineness of the phenomena.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY 1USLINGBURY,
The enemies of Spiritualism in France have again com¬
mitted an act of petty oppression by the arm of the law, wielded,
one is fain to believe, by the power of the Church, which
looks upon Spiritualism as the most dangerous schism of
modern times.
On the 24th July last, as we learn from the Revue Spirite
for September, a gardener named Etienne Geoffre was
cited before the tribunal of Narbonne, at the suit of the
Republic, charged with having “ exercised the art of healing
without certificate, diploma, or letters of recommendation,
by means of water lotions, Spiritualistic practices, and the
sale of Spiritual books.” The audience in the court was
very numerous, and consisted chiefly of persons who had
been healed by Geoffre, and of Spiritualists from Narbonne
and the surrounding villages. The counsel for the defence
argued that to heal in the manner made use of by his client
could not be considered as trenching on the domains either
of art or science; it was a religious act, and that to con¬
demn a man on such grounds would be to expose to the
penalty of the law all those who believe themselves capable
of attaining by prayer and by ardent love to God that which is
unattainable by science. Nevertheless Geoffre was con¬
demned to a penalty of five hundred francs (£20) and costs.
The only means employed by him to heal disease were
lotions or draughts of water from the neighbouring river
Aude, laying on of hands, and prayer. Every Saturday the
cottage of the healing gardener had been besieged by num¬
bers of sick folk, and, on one occasion, as cited by the
magistrate, no less than fifty carts and vehicles of various
description were collected in the road leading to the house.
The cures were said to be effected through the Spiritual aid of
the late Cure cTArs ; Geoffre pronounced a prayer oyer each
patient, causing the sufferer to repeat it with him. After
this, those who found benefit from the treatment desired
to use the same prayers, which were taken from a collection
by Allan Kardec, in the Evangile Selon le Spiritisme. A
great demand for the book sprang up, and I was assured in
|| Paris that several thousand copies had been supplied to that
I district alone. In this unusual sale of religious works not
authorised by the Church, I think we have the key to the
| prosecution. A subscription is being raised in Paris on
| behalf of Geoffre, who, in default of payment, will be con-
| veyed to prison. In any case, the Revue remarks, the law
| has recognised the reality of the cures, and the newspapers
| are instructing the people in the art of mesmeric healing.
The same number of the Revue Spirite contains the first
| part of a reply to Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld’s late onslaught
| on Allan Kardec, by M. Tonoeph; also an account of the
| saving of a shipwrecked vessel by Captain Smalley, for
| which he received a medal from the English Government,
i The captain had seen a number of men in distress, in a
| dream, which caused him to awaken and go on deck. A
sudden inspiration showed him some reason for altering
i the course of the ship, and at daybreak he perceived a
| distant vessel in distress, from which he rescued twenty-
three men.
The Messager de Liege continues to show a bold front to
I the orthodox Church party. An article on the subject of
“ Miracles,” and a review in favour of the last new work by
| the Count de Torres-Solanot—Catholicism before Christ—
| constitute the chief features of the September number.
Psychic Studies for this month contains the first of a
| series of papers by Christian Reimers, of Manchester, on
| the Experiences of a German in England. The other
articles are chiefly theoretical and critical in their tone,
| and do not contain any record of the facts of Spirit-
| ualism occurring at the present time. Our German brethren
i labour under a great disadvantage in this respect, and as
| long as they have no mediums to demonstrate the physical
| side of the question, it is to be feared that Spiritualism will
make very slow progress among them. A visit from Dr.
Slade to some of the chief German capitals, on his return
from St. Petersburg, would do more than anything else to
awaken an interest in the subject, of which there is at
present scarcely any practical knowledge in the whole of
| Germany.
Reflexionen aus der Geisterwelt, the monthly journal of
the Buda-Pest Society, has reappeared after six months’
| suspension. It is of the same character as formerly, con¬
sisting of communications, many of which are very curious
and interesting, given through the writing and trance-
i mediums of the society.
The Spanish journals continue to flourish, despite the
bitter opposition of the clergy to Spiritualism both in Spain
and Mexico. There is also a Spiritualist Society (the rules
of which have been sent to the office of the British National
Association of Spiritualists) at Santiago, in Chili; but there
appears to be no Spiritualist journalist in that country
I at present.
An African Urim and Thummim.—All the fetishmen in Equatorial
Africa carry a small looking-glass, and the Cabindas have a kind of household
god represented with a prominent belly, to which is fastened a small metal
! or glass mirror, which enables the divinity to pourtray to the worshipper
any object he may desire to see, even at the greatest distance. Quen-
| queza, King of the Rembos, had one of these little idols (which may also
I be seen in the British Museum), he refused to part with it, and told me
that if that glass were to break he would instantly die.—Winwood Reade’s
| Savage Africa, p. 541.
Scientific Investigators—If Slade can be shown ever so conclu¬
sively to be an impostor, we shall still object to the disposition, manifested
I by persons of some authority in scientific matters, to pooh-pooh and knock
on the head all careful inquiry into those subjects of which Mr. Barrett
| took note in his paper before the British Association. Because Spiritualists
i have committed themselves to many absurdities, that is no reason why the
i phenomena to which they appeal should be scouted as unworthy ox ex¬
amination. They may be mesmeric, or clairvoyant, or something else.
| But let our wise men tell us what they are, and not snub us, as ignorant
! people too often snub inquiring youth, by the easy but unsatisfactory
j apothegm, “ Little children should not ask questions."—The Christian
World.
no
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 6, 1876,
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE. , | |
The following is. the account which the Daily Telegraph of |||
Tuesday last gave of the prosecution of Dr. Slade, and is a
tolerably good newspaper report; but Mrs. Guppy was absent, | ;
and not present, and Mr. Lewis’s slate-writing is described j I
as a success, which (as the Daily News records) it was not.
After waiting many minutes the writing did not reappear to j|j
such an extent as to be visible to persons at the other end | j
of the little court, and Mr. Lewis remarked that if they j||
waited longer, or if the warmth of hands were applied to i j
the slate, it would come out better. Everybody was laugh- | |
ing at the experiment. From the slight demonstrations of ! i
feeling occasionally made, but which were at once sup- | |
pressed, it would appear that the court was about half full j j
of persons who knew something about Spiritual phenomena, ! |
and the other half of listeners who were ignorant thereof: jjj
Yesterday afternoon, at the Bow-street police-court, before Mr. Flowers, ](j
Henry Slade, 8, Upper Bedford-place, was summoned, on the information of j j j
Mr. E. Ray Lankester, “ for that he did, on Sept. 11, unlawfully use certain jjj
subtle craft and devices to deceive and impose on certain of her Majesty’s sub- I j!
jects, to wit, E. Ray Lankester, T. J. Oldman, Henry Sidgwick, R. H. Hutton, jjj
Edmund Gurney, and W. B. Carpenter.” Another summons charged Henry j j j
Slade and Mr. Simmons “ for that they, on or about Sept. 11, did unlawfully jji
conspire and combine together, by divers false pretences and subtle means llj
and devices, to obtain and acquire to themselves, and of and from E. Ray jjj
Lankester, T. J. Oldman, Henry Sidgwick, R. H. Hutton, Edmund Gurney, jji
W. B. Carpenter, and others, divers sums of money, and to cheat and defraud ! j!
the before-mentioned persons.” j (i
The court was densely crowded. Amongst those present were Mrs. Guppy, Iji
Miss Florence Marryat (Mrs.Ross-Church), Mr. Harrison (of The Spiritualist), jj|
Mr. Morton (the manager of Maskelyne and Cooke), Mr. Carter Blake, Mr. A. j jl
Calder (chairman of the Council of Spiritualists), Dr. Wyld, Mrs. Weldon j(j
(Miss Treherne), Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, and Mr. Leighton.
Mr. Geo. Lewis prosecuted, and Mr. Munton (of the firm of Munton and j j I
Morris) appeared for the defence. jjj
Mr. Munton : Before Mr. Lewis commences the case I should like to draw : | j j
the attention of your worship to a gross contempt of court which has been j(j
committed in connection with the case. Although the proceedings have been j j j
pending for several days, the following notice appeared in the Examiner on j j j
Saturday last. It is very short, and I will read it with your permission:— j j j
“The prosecution of ‘Dr.’ Slade, under the Vagrant Act, as a common l(!
impostor, has been instituted by Professor Lankester. It was high time that jjj
this should be done, and the public will doubtless support this movement with j j j
all goodwill. Mr. George Lewis has been retained, and we understand that a ijj
large number of scientific men and others have been subpoenaed. The first j (j
hearing will take place on Monday, at Bow-street. Another charge will, it is jjj
likely, be preferred, under the Act providing against conspiring to defraud, jjj
Any person able to give testimony on these matters, or relating to the personal jji
character and antecedents of Slade, or his confederate Simmons, is invited to j\!
communicate with Messrs.Lewis and Lewis, Ely-place, Holborn.” jjj
Now, my professional acquaintance with the gentlemen here makes me feel jjj;
assured that they have no connection and had no acquaintance with the publi- j jji
cation of that notice ; and I do submit that to write in such a way of a case jsi
pending is a gross abuse of the privileges of a newspaper. There is a liberty jjj
of the press which we all respect, but in this instance liberty has degenerated jj
into licence, and I hope there will be some expression of opinion from the j j j
Bench that may prevent the recurrence of so scandalous an outrage.
Mr. Lewis : I am not here as the advocate of the Examiner newspaper. I ijj
arrived here this morning from the Continent, and indeed I had not known of jjj
this extract till I heard it read. But I do not see that it is a contempt of jjj
court. i(!
Mr. Flowers : I cannot give an opinion just now, at any rate. jjj
Mr. Lewis asked that the defendants, who were sitting on the Bench near j j j
their solicitor, should be called upon to appear in the defendants’ seat.
Mr. Munton : I desired that that should be so; but there was no room for them, j j j
Mr. Lewis : I do not doubt that is so. jji
The defendants accordingly passed with much difficulty, owing to the j j
manner in which every part of the court was thronged, to the place assigned jj j
to persons appearing to answer summonses. j j j
Mr. Munton : It may be convenient if we were at once to know whether we jjj
are now dealing with the first, or the second summons. jj j
Mr. Lewis: I purpose dealing with the charges against the two defendants, jjj
Mr. Munton feared, from the magnitude and importance of the case, that j(j
that course would prove inconvenient if adopted. jjj
Mr. Flowers: Oh, in that respect I have seen many cases which looked jjj
much more alarming in the beginning than this one go off very quietly, j j j
(Laughter.) We shall now hear Mr. Lewis. jtl
Mr. Lewis: I appear on behalf of Professor Lankester to prosecute the two j( j
defendants on the charge of conspiring to defraud him and others, under cir- i j j
cumstances to which I will briefly allude. One of the defendants before you jjj
calls himself Dr. Slade. Probably there is a gentleman representing him .jjj
here who will tell us what meaning is to be attached to the word “ Doctor” in jj j
this case ; but I think that perhaps to-day it will be sufficient to describe the jjj
gentleman otherwise, and drop the title which, with regard to him, has pro- jjj
bably no other meaning than that attaching to “ professor” when assumed by j j j
a conjuror. So I shall call him Mr. Slade. He carries on his business, call- ijj
ing himself a medium for supernatural agency, in Upper Bedford-place, jji
Russell-square. The other defendant is either his partner in that business, ,j j j
or.at least holds a very confidential position with him in connection with the jjj
business he so carries on. The charge against the two defendants is that j j j
they have conspired together, by pretending to communicate with the spirits i j j
of departed persons,to cheat and defraud such people as are foolish enough to jjj
go to them to communicate with their deceased relatives or friends. Probably j j j
one cannot help smiling at the folly of those who can—after you have heard j( j
such exposures as I shall bring before you to-day—place the slightest credit j j j
upon the assertions advanced by Messrs. Slade and Simmons. I believe that i j j
during many years past Mr. Slade has, in America, pretended to have this ijj
power that he now in this country claims to possess. I believe he arrived ijj
here about two months ago with Simmons, and that the two of them have been [\ {
connected together for some years. And I am convinced that it is very likely
after you have heard the evidence in this case you will believe that if these
two persons are guilty, they are guilty in combination of pretending to pro¬
duce the results they have been affecting to produce in Upper Bedford-place.
The charge against Dr.—that is Mr.—Slade is this :. that he invited persons
to go to his address in Upper Bedford-place, charging one sovereign for
each person who visited him, assuring them that he could communicate
with departed spirits, and that he could obtain written communications
from the spirits of persons who have died recently, and, indeed, from
the spirits of those who had died several years ago. He alleges—and I
speak with the greatest respect for the feelings of those who may have friends
that have passed away—indeed, I should not allude to it, only that it is the
foundation of Mr. Slade’s pretensions—but he alleges that his assumed gifts
or powers arise from the fact of his having lost his wife some 12 months ago;
that her spirit is constantly hovering about him, and is able to pick up, to
search for and discover, the spirits of persons in the other world with whom
he may desire to hold converse, and that, she having so discovered them, they
present themselves to him (Mr. Slade) in this house in Upper Bedford-place,
and submit themselves to be interrogated. In short, I charge him with, under
these pi'etensions, conspiring in a variety of ways, with Simmons, with the
view of inducing people to part with their money for the benefit of the defen¬
dants. You are aware that an Act of Parliament, very well known as the
Vagrant Act, provides that every one pretending to tell fortunes, or using
subtle and crafty means or devices to deceive or impose on her Majesty’s
subjects, shall be guilty of being deemed to have committed an offence; and
one of the summonses is brought under that Act. The other summons is
against the two, and it charges them with conspiring to deceive, with a view
to acquire to themselves, from various of her Majesty’s subjects, sums of
money under circumstances which shall be given in evidence before you to¬
day. Now, I need hardly say that, if it should turn out that these two persons
are conspirators—that they have combined together to pretend, by means of
conjuring tricks, that they possess a supernatural power capable of being
exerted in various ways—their offence is a very serious one, and one with
regard to which I trust you will have no hesitation in saying you should use
your influence as a magistrate, not to put down by any summary process open
to this court, but one which you will consider ought to be sent before a jury,
so that it may be fairly and fully determined whether these parties are rogues
and vagabonds within the meaning of the Act, or whether they possess the
sort of power they claim.
Mr. Flowers : If you proceed against them as rogues and vagabonds, I shall
have to deal with them myself.
Mr. Lewis: So I am aware. But the more serious matter is that which I
am now placing before you, namely, the charge of conspiracy against the two
of them. That is an indictable offence, and if the evidence which I shall pre¬
sent should prove sufficient to satisfy your mind that this thing has been going
on in concert, I apprehend you will ha\e no difficulty in coming to the con¬
clusion that you ought to commit the defendants for trial. That is the charge
upon which I desire to give evidence to-day. Now, various persons have gone
to the house where these defendants were, invited’ by their pretensions. On
arriving there they are introduced to Mr. Simmons, and the prosecution
charges that Mr. Simmons stays in this room with a view of picking up from
persons resorting to Mr. Slade such information as might subsequently be
used by Mr. Slade to practise upon the credulity of his visitors. Persons who
go credulously to a place of that kind, are not likely to be very self-possessed,
and are very prone to drop words which a shrewd man like Mr. Simmons—I
believe he has had fifteen years experience at it—would make the most of.
This is the way in which it is done. Mr. Simmons carries on conversations
with the visitors in the outer room, and also corresponds with them, as to
making appointments to meet Mr. Slade; for you can easily see it would never
do for Mr. Slade’s own handwriting to be known by those who patronise him,
since in that case they would recognise that the spirit-writing was in the hand
of Mr. Slade. So the suggestion of the prosecution is that the part taken by
Simmons is that apparently of an innocent agent, but really of a guilty parti¬
cipator in these transactions. Well, the visitor having seen Mr. Simmons, and
had some talk with him, is introduced into the adjoining room, where Slade is.
There is a table which we shall have particularly to describe to you in that
room, at which Slade and the visitors seat themselves, there being only two
visitors present at one time. The reason for limiting the number to two is,
as we allege, that Slade requires for his own protection from discovery, that
there should be no more in the room than he can effectually watch. If there
were five or six persons round the table, it would be difficult for him to dis¬
cover whether he was being watched ; but if there were only two in the room,
you will probably come to the conclusion that he believes ho has a fair chance
of watching the eyes of those two persons, so that he may baffle their observa¬
tion. The visitors take their seats, and are kept extremely well engaged in
conversation. I dare say you have seen a great number of conjuring tricks in
this and other countries, of which—at least while they are being done—it is
impossible to discover the mode and means.
Mr. Flowers: Well, I never found out at all how they were done.
(Laughter.) *
Mr. Lewis: Well, sir, you shall find that out to-day. (Renewed laughter.)
You are aware that one of the great aims of the conjuror is to distract your
attention at the moment he is going to perform the trick, so that your eyes
should not be able to follow him continuously. The same is the case with Mr.
Slade, and this is how he engages the attention and draws off the observations
of his patrons. Shortly after he takes his seat at the table he pretends to be
much affected, shudders, throws himself into various attitudes, simulates
alarm, and so forth. In the midst of these exhibitions the visitor receives a
kick from under the table from Mr. Slade. (Laughter.) You will find that
Mr. Slade does no trick beyond the reach of his legs or arms, and that, in
point of fact, he does nothing which he could not do with his legs and arms.
Mr. Munton : I am sorry to interrupt you, Mr. Lewis, but I may ask you,
are you dealing with the case of conspiracy, or with that which may be dis¬
posed of summarily here ?
Mr. Lewis: I must ask this gentleman if he will kindly wait a little.
Mr. Flowers: We have a right to remember that this is the opening speech.
Mr. Lewis : I have told you the part Simmons plays, and I am now detail¬
ing that taken by Slade. You will find that nothing that Slade does is at all
beyond the power of any ordinary conjuror, and certainly an ordinary con¬
juror performs far more cleverly than Mr. Slade does. In addition to the
kick under the table, there is something else of the same nature. Mr. Slade
tells the visitors “ There is a light upon your arm.” The visitor looks, but
sees no light, and I don’t suppose that Mr. Slade himself sees any light.
(Laughter.) Then he calls attention to a light in some- other place in the
room, and in the midst of all this the great trick is performed. This great
Oct. 6, 1876.
spiiixTtrAtlsI1.
in
trick, and the one upon -which this case mainly depends, is that by which he
sets forth his alleged power to communicate with spirits through the inter¬
position of his deceased wife Allio calling them together in the room as he
says, and their presence is definitely revealed to the visitor by means of a
kick. Now, I shall prove to you to demonstration that this kick is produced
by Slade himself in a clumsy and stupid way. Everybody I shall call will tell
you that there was no light, and as for the raps, we have all heard of
them and seen how the thing is done, either by some agency of a very
physical kind under the table, or by a foot or something of the sort. (A laugh.)
All these preliminaries being gone through, there comes next the great all-
absorbing trick, which one can easily understand may be readily used to
impose upon those who do not understand conjuring. In the midst of the
tremblings and the knocks and kicks and less real lights, Mr. Slade announces
that the “ Spirits are coming,” “ The spirits are here,” and so forth. A
gentleman who had just left a young lady visited Mr. Slade, who asked him
whether he wished to communicate with the spirit of any friend, and, if so,
would he write down the name of the friend. The gentleman wrote down the
name of the lady whom he had just left, and sure enough, under circum¬
stances you will hear detailed in evidence, an answer was forthcoming. But
it turned out that the lady was not dead at all, the gentleman meeting her in
perfect health just after he left Mr. Slade. That will give you some sort of idea
of the stupidity of this business. Now the great trick is this writing upon a
slate, which, of course, he pretends is done by the spirits. I have here a
slate, and I now proceed to show you how the trick is done. (Mr. Lewis then
exhibited a small folding slate, which he held a little under the table at one
side, in such a way that a couple of fingers would be free, and continued:) Now
what I say is that with the liberated fingers he is able to write in the curved
way those messages for which he claims a supernatural origin, and which, in
that particular form of writing, were generally confined to a few words.
You will also find that he writes lengthened messages, such as fill the whole
of the slate. That is done in this way: Having got the short messages, he
announces “ The spirits are here ; we will try and get something more lengthy
from them.” In some instances you Would find that Mr. Slade goes to a table
or sideboard in the room, takes from it a slate, which he washes and puts on
the table before the visitors. In a very few minutes, to the intense sur¬
prise of everybody, a lengthened message appears written on the slate, and he
affects that the message is written by means of supernatural agency. That
is one mode. Another is by fetching the slate, on which I have very little
doubt the message had already been written, from the side-table, and forth¬
with the writing appears, though the slate had previously been washed. If
you will allow me, I will show you how clumsy this affair is, and I shall under¬
take to write upon a slate, wipe it clean, and then you will see whether in
about five minutes the writing will reappear. (Laughter,) You see (said
the learned gentleman, holding up the slate he had previously used) that the
front of it is perfectly clean. Now (writing) I shall write upon the slate, “ I
wonder if the spirits would appear in court before the magistrates.” (Much
laughter.) That I have written with a small slate pencil. Now here is a
small sponge with which I shall wipe it clean. (Mr. Lewis accordingly
wiped the slate with a moistened sponge till it appeared quite free from writ¬
ing, and then, handing the slate to the Court, continued:) I do not affect to
say that this could not be done more cleverly by a regular conjuror.
(Laughter.) That is what is done by the spirits.
Mr. Flowers: That there are spirits here, I suppose then, you must admit ?
(Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis: Yes; but spirits of wine. (Renewedlaughter.)
Mr. Munton: May I ask if Mr. Lewis is giving evidence ?
Mr. Flowers : Well I think just now he is.
Mr. Munton: It is fairly open to me to assume that Mr. Lewis is using
some chemicals by which he did this.
Mr. Flowers: I think we had better leave this to the witnesses who are to
be called.
Mr. Lewis: You will see that the slate is perfectly clean.
Mr. Munton : I object to this.
Mr. Lewis : I am not aware that I have not a right to expose the manner in
which this thing is done.
Mr. Munton: I object entirely to Mr. Lewis giving evidence.
Mr. Flowers : I think it better, possibly, that Mr. Lewis should proceed.
Mr. Munton: I do, then, most strongly protest against Mr. Lewis producing
a slate, or writing on a slate, or doing anything equivalent to acting as a
witness.'
Mr. Lewis : I am acting as an advocate, and just as I should draw a diagram
with a view to illustrating a case, so have I a right to use a slate and pencil
to explain the mode by which that which becomes the subject of a prosecution
is done.
Mr. Munton : I must ask for a ruling upon that point.
Mr. Flowers : I do not think I can say that Mr. Lewis is not in order.
Mr. Munton : Well, I can only say that I am bound to obey.
Mr. Lewis : In a few minutes you will see the writing on the slate.
Mr. Flowers : Well, let us go on while it is returning. (Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis: The slate with a message written upon it beforehand is rubbed
clean by Mr. Slade, as I have done, and, of course, he shows the slate with
apparently nothing upon it. But as soon as the moisture dries, which is easily
done by the heat of the visitor’s hands—they hold their hands over it at the
invitation of Mr. Slade—the trick is complete, for there the writing appears.
What he pretends is that this is done by the spirit of his wife, and the other
spirits whose presence she is represented as being able to procure. If he
were to say that he did all this himself, of course he would not gain a
sovereign, for the commonest conjurors do things fifty thousand times as
clever without attracting any particular notice. The defendants are guilty of
acting in concert to produce the impression that this clumsy deception is the
result of supernatural agency. To put it beyond doubt that this is all a piece
of jugglery, I shall call Mr. Maskelyne, of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke—(ap-.
plause, which was instantly suppressed)—who in your presence will, upon the
next examination, do this very clover spiritual trick. He will write long
messages and short messages upon the slate, and show you that the affair is
merely a conjuror’s trick.
Mr. Flowers: I don’t think you need call him. You have done it yourself.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis (having obtained the slate from the Bench): The writing is
coming back. It only wants warmth to appear legibly. We have not had
hands upon it, but the heat of the court will do. (The learned gentleman
here returned the slate to Mr. Flowers, and when the experiment was again
referred to it was found that the writing had become perfectly distinct.)
Mr. Flowers : The fact that others are able to do this does not prove that
spirits did not do it in the case under consideration.
(i Mr. Lewis: If a thing can be done in this simple way, and a man ascribes
| i to it a supernatural agency, then you can come to no other conclusion than
) i that he has the intention of making dupes. But if you come to the conclu-
); sion that Allie, his deceased wife, did this, and got the spirits to come, then—
<| Mr. Flowers: Well, at any rate, I should say that her spirit does not rest
U in peace. (Laughter.)
(I Mr. Lewis : If you find a very easily performed trick surrounded and in-
n fluenced by no other agency than falsehood, I apprehend you will have no
(; hesitation that the whole thing is done for the purpose of defrauding people.
>j Professor Lankester, a gentleman of high station, great knowledge, and ac-
)j knowledged distinction in the scientific world, having heard that Mr. Slade
(i was able to communicate with the spiritual world, visited the defendant,
s | duly observed the shivering fit, and was then informed that the spirits were
) I present. The spirits were asked to write, and the writing was forthcoming.
)| But Dr. Lankester will tell you he positively saw the defendant Slade in the
(s most clumsy way write the answer which it was pretended came from the
(i spirits. He saw him do the writing, and I submit it is impossible to have
S j better evidence. Dr. Lankester went a second time, being accompanied by
) I Dr. Donkin, a name which I am sure will be familiar to you. They went to
) ] watch Mr. Slade, and they will tell you that after the usual preliminaries a
(I slate was produced with the name of “ Samuel Lankester ” written upon it.
\ i But there was no one of that name known to Professor Lankester. The name
) | “ Edwin Lankester ” was suggested, and Mr. Slade said it looked like Edwin,
l/| and that he would rub it out. Trying again, the slate was brought up with a
K | message signed “ Edwin Lankester,” the name of Professor Lankester’s late
|) i father. It was suggested they might have a longer message. The slate was
j) j thereupon cleaned, and when putting it under the table for the spirits to write
I) i upon it, Mr. Slade asked a longer time for them to write. Duly he announced
j (| that they were about to write. But Professor Lankester snatched the slate,
\{\ and there was the message already written upon it. (Muchlaughter.) Now,
j) j sir, if that evidence does not satisfy you that all that the defendant Slade does
j)l is simply to deceive the eye, using the arts of the conjuror for that purpose, I
j (! confess I know not what evidence to offer. I shall ask you, after submitting
|)| the whole of the testimony to you, the nature of which I have indicated, to
j) j come to the conclusion that these persons have committed a very gross and
i) | very detestable crime, and are persons who ought to be sent before a jury to
K| have the case fully sifted—to have it determined whether they have been
i) | guilty of obtaining money by false pretences, and whether they
|)j have been guilty of conspiring to do so. When Dr. Lankester and
I/! Dr. Donkin saw that the slate had already been written upon they
j (I charged Mr. Slade with deceiving them, whereupon he leaned back in his
! (| chair, and became very pale. Dr. Donkin said in his face, “ Why, sir, you
) I are a d liar”—(laughter)—but he made no answer. Going into the next
j) | room, they saw ladies waiting there, Simmons also being there, and they told
j) | what had occurred. To Simmons they said they should write to the news-
|)j papers, to which Simmons replied, “ Very well, if you do, there are200 people
)i who have been here to-day, and they will all come back to see if what you say
) | be true. The same thing was tried before, and we found it pay.” (Laughter.)
| / i But afterwards he changed his tone, and asked Dr. Lankester not to write.
)i The course Dr. Lankester took was to make the deception known to the'
j) j public, and he now comes before this court to enable the tribunals to deal with
|)j the matter : for I need not point out to you how extremely dangerous pre-
j(j tensions of this sort are—with how many dangers they threaten some circles,
i) j and how much harm they may do to the young and the weak-minded. In
I) other countries, where, probably, the fraud was not so easily discovered, and
i) where the deception was considerably spread, much mischief was done, and
j) mischief of a character which should not be suffered to go unchecked.
j( Mr. Flowers : This is the case of two gentlemen who did not believe in
j) these pretensions, who went to the defendant’s seance in that mood, and when
j they returned they believed, if possible, still less. How have they been deceived ?
i) Mr. Lewis: But does it not strike you that the actual commission of a crime
| ( is not necessary in order to sustain a charge of conspiracy ?
|) Mr. Flowers': Quite right.
j) Mr. Lewis: If these two men before you conspire to delude 
! j Mr. Flowers: Where is the delusion ? Were the gentlemen of whom you
j (I speak deluded ?
j j Mr. Lewis : No; but it is not necessary to sustain a charge of conspiracy
I) j to murder that the murder should be committed. The moment persons put
j) their heads together to commit an offence, though the contemplated offence
(I may never be committed, that moment they are, by the common law, guilty of
)j a conspiracy. The offence is in the conspiring. Let them do the projected
)j offence, and they commit a still more serious crime. In this instance the
i j offence is in the fact of the two defendants conspiring,
i <! Mr. Flowers : To do an unlawful act ?
|)i Mr. Lewis: Yes; the unlawful act in this case being the pretending that
m they are in communication with departed persons, and by subtle and deceitful
i) j means obtaining money from the public. They issued advertisements saying
in they could do all these things, and, even though they had not succeeded, they
! (| had, in consorting together as I have described, done that which is a conspiracy
j at common law.
15 j Mr. Flowers : Is conspiring to confer with the spirits of departed persons an
! / j unlawful act ?
|<| Mr. Lewis: I should not call it that, and do not find it necessary to do so.
j) i The conspiracy is a conspiracy to obtain money, and the pretences in relation
j)j to departed persons are the means by which the offence is committed.
i) | Mr. Flowers: The means, that is, by which they endeavour to get people to
! i come and see them.
j) i Mr. Munton was afraid they were getting into confusion.
i) i Mr. Flowers thought, all things considered, there had been less confusion
j) i than might have been expected. (Laughter.)
I)! Mr. Lewis : I have now gone briefly over the case, which I purpose calling
i)i evidence to support, and what I contend is that, if the defendants conspired
I) together for the purpose of obtaining money under the circumstances I have
| | narrated, they have committed an offence at common law for which both con-
i) i spirators are liable to conviction.
i|| The following evidence was then given:—
i) j Edwin Ray Lankester, examined by Mr. Lewis : I reside at Exeter College,
|) I Oxford. I am a fellow at that college, and professor of zoology at University
|) j College, London.
i)| Do you know the two defendants?—They are the persons whom I have seen
jj before. On the 11th of last month I went to a house in Upper Bedford-place.
|) j I was ushered into a room on the first floor.
1)1 Had you gone by appointment?—Yes; I had made an appointment by
I)! letter with Mr. Simmons.
in When you wont into the room what occurred?—I saw Simmons standing
112
tioar a desk. I told him I had an appointment with him. Slade was present
conversing with a gentleman. After he had finished his conversation, he said,
“ Will you dome into another room ? ”—a smaller room behind, which was well
lit. It had a square table in the centre of the room, with a table-cloth, which
Slade pulled off. He placed a slate on the table. He seated himself at the
end of the table with his back to the window, and I was seated at the right of
it with a corner of the table between us. As soon as he was seated he requested
me to put my hands on the table. He then put both his on mine, lightly at
first, and afterwards he freed my right hand. He asked me if I had seen any¬
thing of the kind before ; if I had assisted at any of the spiritualist stances. I
told him I had; that I had been twice with the medium Williams. He then
began to shiver in this manner—very much as a person would do if he had a
cold.
Mr. Flowers: Or if he had seen a ghost ? (Laughter.)
Mr. Lankester : I do not know how a person would act under that circum¬
stance. (Laughter.) He said the influence was very strong that morning.
Then there were three taps. Previously he drew my attention to the fact that
his legs were drawn away from the table. They were concealed from my
sight by the flap of the table. When speaking of his feet I may mention the
fact that he wore pumps of a very light description, such as could be easily
taken off. These three taps shook the table, and Slade said it was a very
curious thing these phenomena always happened whenever he wished them to
be developed; this had been the case for the last twelve years. He added,
“ You are aware it is the spirit of my wife which produces these things.”
He took up the slate and showed me that both sides were clean. He then took
a small piece of slate pencil—a fragment of a slate—and began to bite it. He
put the slate below the table with his right hand. When he had placed it in
position there was almost immediately a scratching noise.
Mr. Lewis handed a slate to witness.
Mr. Munton : Was that the slate ?—Witness: No.
Mr. Lewis : I am simply going to ask the witness to describe the noise.
What was the sort of noise ?—Witness scratched his middle finger-nail on the
slate. He proceeded: I noticed that during this time the tendons of his wrist
were moving. That did not take much time. Slade produced the slate and
read the message on it—“ I am here to help you, Allie.”
Was that the name which he gave to his deceased wife ?—Yes. I am not
able to say for certain on which side of the slate it was written, but I was
under the impression that it was written on the lower surface. Defendant
having received this message drew my attention to the construction of the
table. He said, “ You see it is a very simple mechanical contrivance.” It
was a very unusual table without a frame. An upholsterer would say it was
a table made expressly for the purpose. The defendant said, “ We will ask if
there are any spirits acquainted with you.” Slade cleaned the slate on both
sides. He took the little piece of slate pencil and began biting it, saying it
was not quite the right size. He held the slate in his right hand. There
was a considerable space between his body and the table, and he was able to
bring the slate below the table. I was astonished when his hand went down
to see his arm move as if the hand was writing. At the same time I most
distinctly heard the sound of writing on the slate—very slight, but I can hear
pretty distinctly at some distance. I can hear a watch tick at a distance.
At the same time he adopted a very peculiar method in talking. He pro¬
duced a peculiar grating noise in his throat, which was very well calculated
to conceal the sound of writing on the slate. Also during this interval he
touched me—or, rather, I was touched—under the leg of the table two or
three times. Knowing from the description I had had of Slade’s perform¬
ances, I started, and said, “What was that? ” Slade said, “ Did you feel any¬
thing ? ” I said, “ Yes; a spirit touched me on the leg.” (Laughter.)
Were you out of reach of his legs ?—I was well within reach of them. I
have described this manoeuvring in some detail; but I must add the slate was
again placed below the table, and the question was asked, “ Are there any
spirits present who know this gentleman ? ” Then the noise of scratching
was heard again. The slate was brought slowly up from the table to show
that it was written on the surface next to the table. There were only two
names written—William Lankester and John Lankester. Slade read the
names, and handed the slate to me, and said, “ Have you any dead relatives
of those names ? ” I said, “ Dear me, that must be my uncle John! ”
(Laughter.) Slade looked sympathetic—(laughter)—and inquired if I know
William. I said, “I had a cousin of the name of William.”
Mr. Lewis: Had you ever an uncle John?—Witness: No; I never had.
(Much laughter.)
Mr. Flowers : It looks like diamond cut diamond. (Laughter.)
Witness: I have omitted to say that Slade asked me to write my name on
the corner of a slate, from which, probably, he knew how to spell my name.
He asked me to write any question I liked. I wrote, “ Where was I on
Saturday afternoon ? ” He turned the slate over, took it into his left hand,
and began turning it about. It was then put below the table again. It was
out of my sight, between him and the table. He said, “ They are a long time
coming.” Then he said, “ I think they are here.” He then placed the slate
on the table. The following answer was given: * We did not see you on
Saturday afternoon.” (Laughter.) I was surprised, because I was at a public
meeting in a very large place. I thought my deceased relatives would have
been there—at Blackheath, to hear Mr. Gladstone’s speech on the atrocities.
(Loud laughter.) The next point was a message : “ You can become a very
good medium.” I told Slade I would be very glad to develops into a medium.
He cleaned the slate again. With regard to the last question, he told me to
hold the slate with my left hand while he wrote it with his right. The last
message but one was received when he held the slate behind my head, when I
most distinctly heard the noise of scratching. This message was to the effect,
“ We will come to \isit you in your room.” The slate was again cleaned, and
Slade said, “ Some persons have accused me of being able to get the writing
with a short pencil stuck in the table.” He said, “ You see I have a long piece
here. The spirits are able to write with a long piece as well as a short.” He
tried to distract my attention, by saying, for instance, there was a light at my
elbow.
Did you look round?—I cast a glance.
Did you see any light?—No. After I had heard the scratching noise the
slate was put lower under the table. The slate pencil was thrown up from
his hand. He produced the slate and read the message : “ We can write no
more ; we are tired.” (Laughter.) It was my impression at the time that
Slade appeared to take the pencil in his hand and put the slate between his
legs. The handwriting on this occasion was different from the others; it was
a flowing one. Slade said that was all the writing he could get on the occa¬
sion ; but he said: “ Spirits perform very curious deeds with furniture.” He
drew my attention to a chair at the opposite comer of the table. He leaned
back in his chair, stretched out his left leg, and shook it to see if he could
possibly reach the chair. He said : “Join your hands with mine.” I did. He
leant forward, and the chair was immediately raised against the corner of the
table, perpendicularly. It remained there for a second, and then it dropped
to the ground. A similar feat was performed with the table. I expressed
great admiration, and Slade told me if I came again probably more remarkable
things would happen—that their phenomena developed according as the
interest of the sitter was increased.
Could his leg reach the chair in the attitude which you have described ?—
Yes, in my judgment, it could. I went into the front room, and I said to
Simmons: “ What is there to pay ?” He said: “The fee is one sovereign.”
I gave it him, and told him and Slade again that I should probably come and
see them again at the end of the week.
Would you have gone there and paid your sovereign if you had known this
! was produced by conjuring ?—Certainly not. I went to see certain phenomena
' of which I had been informed by Serjeant Cox, and I wished to ascertain the
cause of the phenomena.
Mr. Flowers: It was a voluntary sort of payment ?
Mr. Lewis : So is every payment, unless it is enforced by law. (Laughter.)
Witness: When I came away I wrote to Mr. Serjeant Cox.
Did you receive an answer ?—Yes. Later I met my friend Mr. Donkin.
That would be on the Wednesday.
Did you and he go on Sept. 15th to Upper Bedford-place together ?—We did.
Mr. Munton: If it is intended to call Dr. Donkin I must ask him to retire
from the court while this evidence is being given.
Mr. Flowers : If Dr. Donkin is here he must disappear.
Dr. Donkin then left the court.
Mr. Munton: I suppose my clients can sit down ?
Mr. Lewis: You see the prosecutor is subject to the same inconvenience.
Mr. Flowers : But he has got a box to himself. (Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis : I am obliged to stand. I do not see why the defendants should
not.
Mr. Slade : I have no objection.
Mr. Flowers : I often see that plaintiffs are accommodated with seats in the
most ordinary cases. I think they have a right to hear everything carefully.
Cross-examination continued : I made an appointment to meet Slade with
Dr. Donkin.
By letter ?—Yes; on Friday morning, September 15, at ten o’clock.
Mr. Munton : The summons gives September 11 as the day when this took
place.
Mr. Flowers: In a case of conspiracy, you can prove as many cases as you
please.
Mr. Munton : If you are satisfied, I am.
Witness: On the 15th we found Slade and Simmons in the front room with
three or four other persons, who were apparently waiting for seances. Almost
immediately Slade took Dr. Donkin and myself into the hinder room.
Had any objection been made to your being two ?—Yes; in a letter, but I
have not got it here.
Mr. Munton: Where is the letter ?
Mr. Lewis: He has not got it here. We’ll produce it. I must remark that
in every disturbance that has occurred this gentleman has been in the wrong.
(Laughter).
Mr. Munton: I did not expect Mr. Lewis to admit I am always in the right.
Mr. Lewis: If you find that letter you will produce it on the next occasion ?
—Yes. We sat at a table by Slade’s direction.
How ?—In the same way as on the first, except that Dr. Donkin was seated
opposite to Slade. I occupied the same seat as before.
(j Did Slade sit with his back to the light?—Yes.
)j What effect had it ?:—It threw his lap and arms more or less into the shade.
) 1 Slade again shivered, indicating that the influence was upon him. The slate
11 was produced, and also the small piece of slate-pencil. The slate was placed
(l in position—that is, he held it in his right hand, as before. The scratching
) I was heard—loud scratching—and the slate was shown with a message con-
11 sisting of words to this effect, “ I am with you, Allie.” Slade then explained
(| that “Allie” was his deceased wife’s name. Slade began talking to Dr.
\ I Donkin. He asked him whether he had witnessed any spiritual phenomena,
> | and whilst he was talking he lifted up the little piece of pencil, bit it, and
(I brought it down again. The other manoeuvring which I have described also
(j occurred.
\j Did you see his wrist move ?—Not on this occasion. Our hands were joined
)i with Slade’s left hand. Heaidng the sound of writing, and observing Slade’s
i| movements, I squeezed Dr. Donkin’s fingers, and received a look from him
i which indicated that he was paying attention. The slate was put into
position, placed under the corner of the table. It was produced with some
writing on it, which Slade told us applied to my friend Dr. Donkin. Then
I Slade turned to me, and said there “ was some relative of yours with us last
i time. We will see if there are any of your relations here to-day.” He
| cleaned the slate, and then followed the manoeuvring with the pencil. Ho
; put the slate in position, and brought it back with a name written on it,
i which he read—“ Samuel Lankester.” It was not well written. I said,
| “ This word looks like ‘ Edwin.’ ” Dr. Donkin said, “ Especially the ‘ in.’ ”
Slade said, “Very likely it is Edwin. We will try again.” He again bit the
| pencil, grated his throat, gave us one or two touches on the legs, and re¬
marked that the spirits were a long time coming. He said to me, “ If you
will hold the slate with me the spirits will write more distinctly than they
| did before when you were here.” I held out my hand to meet the slate as it
| came to the comer of the table. It had rested there only a second—a frac-
I tion of a second—when I immediately snatched it from Dr. Slade’s hand. 1
! I got up from the table and held the slate in my hand. I said, “ You have
| already written on the slate. I have watched you doing it each time.” I
added, “ You are a scoundrel and an impostor.” These words were written on
I the slate: “ I am glad to meet you, Edwin Lankester.” Dr. Donkin got up
from the table and used rather a strong expression.
Mr. Flowers : Stronger than yours ?—Witness : Some people might think
| so. He said, “ you are a   liar.” (Laughter.) I then carried the slate
| into the adjacent room. There were five people there besides Simmons.
When you called Slade’s attention to the fact that the writing was on tho
slate, what did he say ?—He said nothing.
Did he appear to be moved ?—He appeared much agitated, fell back in his
| chair, and became very white.
He made no explanation, although you challenged him to his face ?—No.
Witness : As soon as I got to the other room I said words to this effect to
the persons there, “ I have taken this slate away from Slade. You see there
j is a message written upon it.” I told them I had seen him doing it two or
three times. I said I had come that day to detect him. Turning to Simmons,
I said, “ I shall write to the newspapers and expose you as an impostor.”
THE SHlHtTHAtilST.
Oct. 6, 1876.
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
6cr. 6, 1876.
113
Simmons said, “ This is not the first time this kind of thing has happened to
us. You are doing us no harm. We have had two hundred people here, who
will all come back to see if they have been imposed upon.” At the same time
he made a movement with his eye which was very much like a wink.
(Laughter.) In the meanwhile Slade had followed me into the ante-room, and
then he said, “ It can all be explained.” He said, “ If two of the gentlemen
will come into the next room, I can show the writing is not produced in
that manner.” I stayed some time, thinking these persons might come out,
but after waiting twenty minutes, I left with Dr. Donkin.
And wrote a letter to the Times ?—Yes; the same day.
Subsequently you applied at this court for a summons for criminal proceed¬
ings against these two persons for fraud ?—Yes.
And you are prosecuting this case in the public interest?—Yes; I have no
private interest to gain whatever.
Did you take an accurate view of Slade always?—Yea. The movement of
the tendons was only seen when the slate was placed tightly against the table.
It only occurred at the first message. The first message was very short and
very badly written. I could not see his hand in the subsequent messages. I
could see the upper part of his arm, and saw it move.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton: Where did that slate before you come from ?
Mr. Lewis: From my office.
Did you ever see it before ?—Witness: Before when ?
To-day ?—No.
Is it the size of the slate of Dr. Slade’s ?—No.
Is it larger or smaller ?—Smaller.
Was Dr. Slade’s slate about this size (holding up a large slate) ?—Yes.
When you were sitting at the time and heard the three taps, was the table
moved each time ?—Yes.
Was it a tap or a kick ?—I am unable to tell you.
Was it a tap of the finger ?—More like the tap of the boot acting sideways.
That point did not concern me, as I was more interested in the production of
the writing.
Did you go as an unprejudiced discoverer?—I do not know what you mean.
Were you prejudiced very much against the defendant Slade when you
went there on the first occasion ?—I do not know what you mean by the
words “prejudiced against him.”
Had yon come to the conclusion that nothing could produce these things
except fraud and imposture ?—Certainly not. I had no opinion on the hand¬
writing.
Did you know that matter had been very much discussed elsewhere in a
society of which you were a member ?—I was not aware of it. No society of
which I am a member discussed it.
Are you a member of the British Association ?—Yes.
Had a paper been read before that society in which this question was dealt
with ?—No,
Do you remember Professor Barrett’s paper being read ?—Yes.
Were you present ?—No ; I have read it.
Had you read it when you first went to Slade’s house ?—No.
Had you read a report of it ?—No.
Do you know that at the meeting Slade was frequently referred to by several
speakers ?—No. You are making a great mistake. The meeting was after
my first interview. (Laughter.)
Was the paper read between the 11th and the 15th of September ?—Yes.
Did you not go to the first seance on September 11 with your mind made up
that nothing could occur except by imposture ?—With regard to matters of
this kind I never make up my mind. Until I have witnessed them I know
nothing of possibilities.
Had you made up your mind that Spiritualism, or what is called “ psychic
force,” was an imposture ?—It is exceedingly probable that I had made up my
mind that a great deal of what I have experienced of so-called “psychic
force” was imposture or delusion.
And you did not believe that what was stated by such men as Professors
Crookes, Barrett, and others to have occurred had occurred?—I don’t know
that I have ever stated that. I have probably expressed the opinion that
what I have seen of this phenomenon was imposture, because that was in
evidence ascertained for myself. I expressed my disappointment that
Barrett’s paper had been received at the British Association, but I was not
actuated by that feeling in pursuing this inquiry. I may have been mistaken
in my statement in the Times as to the mode of the production of the first
message being by one finger.
Do you now say that you think the writing in question was produced in
that way on September 11th? Do you believe it was produced by a single
finger ?—I think it possible.
You think it was ?—I do not think it was.
You say that the slate was passed under the table, and that the thumb
which supported the slate was clearly seen on the face of the table ?—Yes.
And that the slate itself was sustained by the other fingers of the hand ?—
Yes.
If that were so, it would require two of the other fingers to sustain the
slate close to the table ?—You had better try.
Be good enough to answer my question.—I am unable to tell you. I have
not made the experiment.
Do you think it possible a slate could be held in that position with at least
one of the four fingers under the table writing at the same time ?—I am
unable to tell you.
Would it not require at least two of the fingers ?—I think two would be
enough, oy very likely one would do. I decline to give an opinion.
You have said you think it possible the writing might have been produced
by one finger. Do you still say that the slate being held in that manner, with
the thumb above and the four other fingers under the table, with two of
them sustaining the slate, that one of the remaining two could write the words
on the slate ?—I do not know. I never tried. I know I can hold the slate
under the table and write on it myself, but as to the number of fingers re¬
quired I cannot give an opinion.
Could you write the words with one finger?—I cannot say. I have done
so, and I do not intend to practise long enough to get dexterity in doing it,
but I believe it is possible.
What space would the words cover on the slate—“ I am glad to help you,
Allie?”—About an area of 2| inches by l£ inch.
Do you now say that it is still your opinion those words might have been
written in that way?—Yes.
With the one finger?—Yes. I am not quite certain that any words ap¬
peared on the under surface of the slate. I don’t distinctly recollect. The
first message that came may have been so; I won’t be positive. A piece of
pencil was on all occasions placed above the slate.
] Now if the pencil was placed on'the top of the slate how could a message be
possibly written on the under side of the slate ?—It does not necessarily follow
| that the piece of pencil which is placed on the upper surface of the slate writes
! the message.
Would not that bring suspicion to any person’s mind ?—Not necessarily.
| Mr. Flowers: Your cross-examination is likely to last a long time ?
; Mr. Munton: At least an hour.
j Mr. Flowers : Then we had better adjourn, as there are other cases to be
heard.
| Mr. Munton : If Mr. Lewis calls all the witnesses he says he’ll call, I shall
have to call witnesses who will take a fortnight,
i Mr. Flowers : That is a very unhappy look-out.
j Next Monday morning was fixed for the resumption of the case.
| Mr. Lewis: I must ask you to ask the defendants to find substantial bail
1 for their reappearance.
Mr. Munton : The defendants have at once appeared to the summons. They
i are entire strangers to any one in this country. As far as I know they have
not the remotest intention of not coming here whenever you desire.
Mr. Flowers : I think it would be very hard on them to find heavy bail. I
i think they can easily find two sureties in £50, and their own recognisances in
£100 each.
j Mr. H. G. Bohn, the publisher: I will be bail for them,
i Mr. Munton : I am very glad to hear that a stranger comes forward,
i Dr. Wyld : I will be bond.
Another gentleman cried out “ I for another,” and a lady also said she
I would be surety.
| In the end Mr. Bohn and Dr. Wyld were accepted.
i The adjournment then took place to eleven o’clock next Monday morning.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., has returned to London from Bremen.
Mrs. "Weldon’s “Monday Evening Sociable Meetings” at the
| Langham Hall will begin in a short time. Those who desire tickets
and programmes should apply to her at Tavistock House, Tavistock-
square, W.C.
A Man and Dog Story.—W. H. Chandler, of San Francisco, Cal., give
an account of his visit to Maud Lord’s circle in Philadelphia. His son
came to him, sat in his lap and caressed him, telling him to go to New
York City. He did so, receiving some fine tests from a medium whose
name he does not give, his wife coming and talking to him in her own
j natural voice. In conclusion he states:—“ A voice said, ‘ Look at the
window.’ I did so, seeing a puppy distinctly, which looked to be but a
few days old, suspended above the window without any visible hand.
It seemed to float along the ceiling, coming slowly down, and was laid
carefully on the table before me. Then my son said, ‘ Father, when I
was on earth, you gave me an Italian coach dog, which I loved very
| much, and as it has joined me in spirit life, I bring this one to you.
Keep it and call it Skip-toe.’ This was the name of the dog I gave him,
and he gave the same name to the one he brought to me. This was all
done in broad daylight, between twelve and one o’clock, the 19th day of
July, 1876, and I know there was no chance for fraud or delusion.’’—
Religio"Philosophical Journal (Chicago).
Is the Planchette a Devil?—“Neitherthe sight of the eye, nor the
touch of the hand, can discover the spring by which the planchette
moves. Therefore it is not in its movements a toy. It moves—■un¬
doubtedly it moves. And how ? Intelligently ! It answers questions
| of any kind put to it in any language required. It does this. This cannot
be done but by intelligence. Well, by what description of intelligence?
It cannot be supposed that the Divine intelligence is the motive; for
how can God be conceived to make such a manifestation of Himself as
the planchette exhibits ? A corresponding reason cuts off the idea that it
is presided over by an angelic intelligence, and it is evident to all that
a human mind does not control it. There is but one more character of
intelligence—that of evil spirits. Therefore the planchette is moved by the
agents of hell. . . . But why should the devil connect himself with the
planchette? . . . We suppose that the experienced scoundrel is ready
to do anything human wickedness may ask him. when souls are the
price of the condescension. But his reasons for particular manifesta¬
tions are of small importance here. Facts are facts, and the point is that
the planchette is not a toy, that it is moved by an intelligence, and that
the intelligence that moves it is necessarily evil. We would, therefore,
| advise all who have a planchette to build for it a special fire of pitch
and brimstone. No one has a right to consult the enemy of God. They
who do so are in danger of becoming worshippers of the devil, and of
dwelling with him for ever.”—Philadelphia Universe, a Catholic organ.
Serious Thinkers.—Mr. Goldwin Smith, in one of the Canadian
I magazines, has his little fling at Spiritualism, of which he says : “ No
serious thinker will give it a thought.” If serious thinkers, then, will
not give it a thought, let us have the thoughts of the cheerful and in¬
spirational. Very serious thinkers are sometimes very dull. We sup¬
pose that Mr. Smith would exclude from the category of serious thinkers
[ i all the following great names:—Socrates, Plato, Cicero, Plutarch, St.
) | Augustine, Tertullian, Bacon, Shakspeare, Richard Baxter, Glanville,
II Swedenborg, Johnson, Lessing, Goethe, Wesley, Kerner, J. H. Fichte,
[! and some fifty more that we could name. These men, if we may judge
i i from their writings, were directly interested in the phenomena of
11 Spiritualism, and gave some of their best thoughts to the subject. We
i suppose Mr. Smith will deny them the epithet of serious thinkers.
11 Nevertheless we are not disturbed at being found spiritually in their
11 company rather than in that of Mr. Goldwin Smith. Every one of the
i persons named, with the exception perhaps of Shakspeare, was avowedly
j a believer in the-return of the spirits of the deceased; and if we may
I i judge Shakspeare by his writings, and by liis evident knowledge of the
j subject, he, too, was a believer. J. H. Fichte still lives at an advanced
j age, and in the new edition of his “Anthropology” (Leipzig, F. A.
j Brockhaus, 1876), fully accepts the phenomena of modern Spiritualism,
j i which he finds in accordance with all that the latest science has revealed
II in the domain of physiology and psychology.—Banner of Light,
114
THE SPlHlTtTALlST.
Oct. 0, 1870.
NEWSPAPER LICENSE.
For 3*ears unlimited newspaper abuse has been the lot of
mediums, except from journals like the Times and Nature,
which represent the more cultured and thoughtful section
of English readers. Abuse, however, breaks no bones, and
is more lowering to its originators than to anybody else;
moreover, it has not always been administered from malice
prepense, but in some cases because those on the press
acquainted with the phenomena of Spiritualism thought it
better to abuse when they could not praise, knowing that
anything helps a growing movement better than silence.
Without pausing to comment on the morality of such policy,
however advantageous it may be to Spiritualism, there is no
doubt that within the past week or two liberty has dege¬
nerated into unprecedented license. The Examiner had to
be made an example of in court. The Telegraph, quite
unintentionally, as we have reason to believe, not only pub¬
lished that Dr. Slade was guilty, by heading articles u Dr.
Slade’s Performances,” but put that announcement on its
placards displayed at railway stations and elsewhere all
over the country, and that, too, before a single witness had
been heard. Other journals might be mentioned. It is to
be hoped that conduct such as has never been seen during
any other law case will cease. It seems to be founded on
the idea that no human evidence whatever can prove any
spiritual manifestations to be genuine, although, with
delightful inconsistency, the British public every Sunday
are told that they must believe in those of 2,000 years and
more ago, or pass after death to an uncomfortable place.
Public opinion will recover its proper balance when the other
side of the Slade case comes to be heard, and while the matter
is before the court, newspapers possessed of a glimmering
of conscience would do well to behave as they do when
other legal questions are pending.
ANOTHER INCIDENT IN THE SLADE CASE.
The following sentences are extracted from the Times of
Tuesday last
u Yesterday, at the Bow-street police-court, Henry Slade,
8, Upper Bedford-place, appeared to a summons before Mr.
Flowers, on the charge of unlawfully using certain subtle
craft, means, and devices to deceive and impose upon certain
of her Majesty’s subjects—to wit, E. Ray Lankester, T. J.
Oldman, Henry Sidgwick, R. H. Hutton, Edmund Gurney,
and W. B. Carpenter. The defendant had also to answer a
charge on a second summons granted against him and his
assistant or manager, a person named Simmons, of conspir¬
ing and combining together, by divers false pretences and
subtle means and devices to obtain and acquire to themselves
of and from the above-mentioned persons and others divers
small sums of money, and to cheat and defraud the above-
mentioned persons. The summonses were granted by Mr.
Flowers over a week ago, and a few days afterwards Mr.
Lankester and Dr. Donkin applied to Sir James Ingham for a
warrant against Slade, on the ground that he had suspended
his seances, which they concluded was a proof that he in¬
tended leaving the country. Mr. Lankester also said he
thought the defendant had good reason for leaving the
country, because he was certain to be convicted. Sir James
Ingham said the suppositions were scarcely sufficient to
enable him to grant a warrant, and, in fact, no such warrant
could be granted unless sworn information were laid before
him. Mr. Lankester and Dr. Donkin left the court osten¬
sibly for this purpose, but, as they did not return, the sum¬
monses were issued.”
Messrs. Slade and Simmons, who are strangers in this
country, and might have returned home, did not go away,
but made their appearance at the proper time at Bow-street.
Further, Messrs. Slade and Simmons did not stop giving
their seances, although they were weak now and then when
Dr. Slade felt depressed. It is true that some few queer-look¬
ing people—altogether different in appearance from those who
ordinarily frequent Dr. Slade’s stances—applied for sittings
with him during the week and were refused. They were
probably detectives, a very worthy body of men, although
they have not hitherto been regarded as the proper agents
for the determination of scientific questions.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
The circumstance has often been pointed out in these
pages, that whenever a manifestation is presented in its
incipient stage, through any medium, that manifestation is
usually developed by the spirits more than any of the others,
when the sitters evince pleasure at witnessing it, and express
the desire that it shall be frequently repeated. Nearly all
the-physical mediums in this country get direct spirit-writ¬
ing occasionally, and as the manifestation is of interest, they
cannot do better than to sit unanimously for its more perfect
development. Thus in a moderate time Spiritualists and
the general public will, in their own homes, as well as at
public circles be familiarised with the phenomenon, the
symptoms which mark its genuineness, and the conditions
under which it is obtained.
A BANK NOTE EXPERIMENT.
BY SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BART.
The following extracts indicate that when eminent phy¬
sicians advertise that they have enclosed bank notes in
envelopes for clairvoyants to decipher, we are justified in
requiring sufficient evidence that they have done so.
In the Zoist, vol. x. p. 35, Dr. Elliotson writes :—
Sir Philip Crampton was the first among us who proposed an enclosed
bank note as a test of clairvoyance. His showy offer runs thus. We
copy it from the Examiner, of Jan. 17th
“ Bank, Henry-street, Dublin, Jan. 7th, 1846.
“ In answer to the numerous inquiries which have been made re¬
specting the lodgment of a hundred pound note in the bank of Messrs.
Ball and Go., to be paid to any person who shall, by the operation of
mesmerism, describe the particulars of the note, I beg leave to say that
such a lodgment has been made in this bank, and on the envelope in
which it is contained is the following endorsement: ‘ This envelope
contains a bank note for one hundred pounds, which will immediately
become the property of the person who, without opening the envelope,
shall describe, in the presence of Philip Doyne, Esq., and Sir Philip
Crampton, every particular of the said note, namely, the bank from
which it was issued, the date, the number, and the signatures attached
to it, and who shall read a sentence which is contained in the same
envelope with the half note.’ (Signed) James Dudgeon.”
After all, it turns out that Sir Philip Crampton did not enclose a bank
note, but a blank cheque, and they say he thought it good fun to
substitute the one for the other.
The Zoist .contoins other letters confirming this; also
that the newspaper accounts stated that a cheque, not a
bank note, was taken from the envelope, payable to CEdipus
or bearer, and. that the English words with it were to
(Edipus alone.
It also states that a clairvoyant at Clifton, being ques¬
tioned on the subject, said there was no note, but a piece of
paper like a cheque. This being supposed to be nonsense,
the clairvoyant was woke up. Chas. Isham.
Lamport Hall, Northampton.
ARRIVAL IN ENGLAND OF “MAGGIE FOX.”
Mrs. Kane, better known to the readers of these pages
as “ Maggie Fox,” arrived in London last Monday, after a
quick passage from New York, in the steamer Australia,
Little Maggie Fox and her sister Kate witnessed the first
manifestations of modem Spiritualism at Hydesville, U.S.,
and have ever since been powerful mediums, and some of
the manifestations observed through Mrs. Kane’s medium-
ship are on record in the books of Mr. Robert Dale Owen.
Mrs. Kane is on a visit to her sister, Kate Fox, now the
wife of Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law.
The Figaro Programme this week contains a photographic likeness
of Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat), and a brief outline of her
career.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, curate of Portsmouth and minister of St.
Mary’s, preached farewell sermons to his congregation last Sunday, hav¬
ing been appointed temporary Chaplain to H.M.S. Malabar. His strik¬
ingly original and thoughtful discourses have been a great attraction to
St. Mary s Church, and his ministrations will be much missed by his
parishioners.—The Hampshire.Post and Southsea Observer, Sept. 29, 1876.
There is never any lack of money in connection with Spiritualism
when the occasion requires it, and our readers cannot do better than
to strengthen the hands of the Committee which is watching Dr. Slade’s
case by sending in subscriptions freely and promptly. It by no means
follows that it will be necessary to use the whole of the amount con¬
tributed, if any. Remittances should be made to Mr. George Wyld,
M.D., 12, Great Cumber land-place, London.
6ct. 6, 187$.
T?H E SPiRITtALlST.
115
CONVERSAZIONE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF j
SPIRITUALISTS. j
Last Wednesday night the first of the monthly conver- ||
saziones of the National Association of Spiritualists was j(
held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, in the rooms of !(
the Association, which by nine o’clock were well filled by a ||
large and fashionable company. Among those present were u
Dr. Slade and his niece, Miss Slade; Mr. Simmons and his !(
daughter, Miss Simmons ; Mr. Keningale Cook, LL.D., and u
Mrs. Cook ; Mr. George Wyld, M.D.; Mr. Frederick Colling- !
wood, late secretary to the Anthropological Institute; Mrs. j)
Weldon (Miss Trefierne) ; Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S. ||
Tel. E., president of the Brixton Psychological Society; |
Mrs. and Miss Fitz-Gerald; Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst. |j
C.E.; Dr. C. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Comparative Ana- |
tomy at Westminster Hospital; the Misses Corner; Miss jj
Kislingbury, secretary to the National Association of Spirit- !)
ualists; Mr. J. C. Joad; Mr. Thos. Blyton, honorary secre- ||
tary to the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit- j(
ualism; Mr. Henry Withall and the Misses Withall; Mr. |)
and Mrs. Earl Bird; Mr. and Mrs. Dawson Rogers; Mr., ||
Mrs., and Miss Cook; the Misses Williamson; and Mr. W. !
H. Harrison. j
In the course of the evening, as many as could get into [v
the library assembled therein, and Mr. Alexander Calder, jj
president of the British National Association of Spiritualists, !
made the following remarks:— j(
Ladies and Gentlemen,—On this occasion, the first of j
our .winter scwv&s, it falls to my lot to offer a brief address, jj
I should willingly speak of Dr. Slade, in compliment of I
whom this gathering had long since been announced ; but jj
we could hardly carry out this purpose now without being j
drawn into a discussion of the case now proceeding; and j
respect for the law makes any such discussion at present to j
be deprecated. It may be permitted me, however, to state jj
a fact, which we cannot conceal, if we would, that our con- j
fidence in Dr. Slade, as a genuine medium, is in no way jj
affected by inferences drawn by two gentlemen who were j
quite inexperienced in the difficulties of the subject, and jj
which inferences were founded on observations likely to be j
unconsciously vitiated in apparently slight, but really im- jj
portant particulars, through a foregone conclusion. But jj
though we will not suffer ourselves to dwell on the case, j
we may touch on some features outside of it which are of j
general interest. What better time could have been selected I
for the prosecution than the last hours of the operations jj
of the British Association at Glasgow, when the great point j ■
in dispute between materialist and Spiritualist, as to the j
reality of certain phenomena, had then received a striking i
illustration. On that occasion Professor Barrett gave the jj
clearest personal testimony that the knockings attendant on j
a young girl were objective and not subjective. “ Real ob- j
jective raps, displaying intelligence, certainly not produced i
by any visible cause,” are his own words. And though they j
amount to little in the estimation of the Spiritualist, yet i
the statement has struck with profound astonishment a j
number of scientific men. To them it is pregnant with jj
meaning. Emanating from a non-Spiritualist source, it ij
should be regarded as an important contribution ; for it will jj
go far to convince the sceptic that the researches of Crookes, jj
Wallace, and others rest, as we well know, on a solid founda- j
tion. Professor Barrett, reaped as much as he sowed. His j
harvest would have been greater if he had cultivated more, j
The lucid manner in which this accurate and distinguished j
pupil of Professor Tyndall examines all that he touches, j
leaves great room to hope that he will yet be found gather- j
ing largely in this important field of truth. Having said j
this much, let us commit the matter which is uppermost in j
our minds to the care of the Great and All-wise Spirit, who jj
knows all hearts, and l( from whom no secrets are hid.” jj
Mrs. Weldon, the trainer of the unequalled Gounod choir, jj
sang with feeling and refined taste Elaine's Song (Tennyson), j
by Frederic Clay. The Misses Withall also contributed with j
much efficiency to the musical part of the evening’s enter- |j
tainment. Among the objects of interest on view, were j
some water-colour paintings of heads, some of them of <
ethereal beauty, by Florence Claxton. Dr. Slade and his
party, it is scarcely necessary to state, appeared to find a
friend in every person present.
NOTRE DAME DE LOURDES.
The Times, commenting lately on a letter from Monsignor Capel on
the miracles of Lourdes, argued that before regarding those miracles
as proved, evidence far more complete than that adduced by Monsignor
Capel would be required, and yet that (as far as it was informed) no
further evidence was forthcoming. Now, as to the apparition, proof,
it must be admitted, rests mainly on the fact of the cures, but proof of
the cures is far from resting solely on the authority of the one scientific
man, Dr. Dozous, cited by Monsignor Capel. It has, on the contrary,
been abundantly set forth by Monsieur Henri Lasserre, a gentleman
who, though a Dilecte Fili of the Pope, is much respected by the
anti-clerical party in France. In a review of his book on the miracles
in question, in Le Temps, Monsieur Scherer testifies to his high cha¬
racter, and is lost in astonishment that a man such as he, “ un homme
connu et respecte de nous tons’' should bear witness to the reality of an
alleged apparition, and of the miraculous cures ascribed to the spring
of water connected with it.
Monsieur Lasserre had in fact had personal experience of the virtue
of that spring, having been suddenly and completely cured by it of an
affection of the eyes which had for some time entirely prevented him
from reading, and from which no treatment had relieved him in the
least. This was without pilgrimage to Lourdes—merely by having
water from the fountain sent to him in Paris.
Profoundly grateful for the restoration of his sight, M. Lasserre set
forth soon afterwards for the favoured spot beneath the Pyrenees,
where the apparition had showed itself, for the purpose of verify¬
ing the accounts of it, and of the alleged miraculous cures. The
result of his inquiries was a small volume entitled, Notre Dame de
Lourdes, containing just such evidence as is deemed requisite by the
Times.
That paper makes one remark, in the above-mentioned article, on
the subject in question, which is, to the ear, correct. “The whole
story,” it says, “must be regarded with much the same feeling as is a
tale of wonders achieved by a medium.” Just so ; there is indeed an
essential homogeneity throughout the multiform phenomena of the
spiritual realm. All are evidently due to the same unknown agency,
the influence of which has ever been powerful on mankind,
j In denying the reality of these phenomena, the philosophical know
not what they do. From clear apprehension and demonstration of
their nature, light too intense for it to withstand must arise and beat
upon superstition, while opening up views of the spiritual, in harmony
with the enlightenment of the age. Now that these phenomena have
come before the British Association, many, doubtless, among the
younger members of that body will, ere long, engage in inquiry into
them. Meanwhile, it is curious to witness the indignant disgust with
| which a portion of the scientific world has beheld that—as they deem
it—abject thing, Spiritualism, take its seat in the halls of science, and
“ With its darkness dare affront her light.”
Their expressions of horror at this unexpected intrusion remind one
of the ironical language put by the French dramatist, Ponsard, into
the mouth of a pupil of Galileo, in a dispute as to the existence of the
satellites of Jupiter: —
“ Haro sur les nouveaui venns;
II fant dire lenr fait ;i ces quatre inconnus;
A ces perturbateurs, & ces vagabonds d’astres,
Qui plongent la science en de si grands ddsastres,
Oui, chassez-moi du ciel ces intrns sans aven;
De quoi se mdlent-ils, je le demande un pen,
De venir aprbs coup, quand les places sont prises,
Ddranger brusquement les planbtes assises!”
It must no doubt be an unpleasant surprise for the opponents of
Spiritualism to find themselves so suddenly overtaken by a rising tide
of which they had disregarded the advance. Spiritualists themselves
had not looked just now for so great a wave. Not long ago it seemed
unlikely that the spiritual phenomena would be brought before the
British Association until it should meet at Hygeia. Nor have they
been ushered into its presence in a way befitting the transcendent
magnitude of their claims to consideration. Timidly, on the contrary,
and cautiously have they been presented—in Mr. Crookes’ words,
“ nibbled at.” Yet on that day, the 12th of September, 1876, under
the high auspices of Mr. Alfred Wallace, an immense impulse, it
will perhaps be seen, was imparted to the spiritual movement.
  J. H. D.
Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., has left London for the South of Franca
and Algiers.
The names of Miss Dickson and Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Barrister-at-
Law, were accidentally omitted in our list of those present at the meeting
at which a committee was appointed to watch Dr. Slade’s case.
Spiritualism in the North of England.—On Sunday last the quar¬
terly Conference of the North of England Spiritualists was held at the
Freemasons’ Old Hall, Weir’s Court, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
The meeting was not a large one. Mr. R. Mowbray was elected honorary
secretary for the ensuing quarter. At five o’clock those assembled sat
down to tea, and at seven Mr. J. J. Morse gave a trance address.
Dr. Slade being, like all mediums, very sensitivefand subject more or
less to mesmeric influences, suffers much from the number of Spiritualists
who call upon him offering all kinds of gratuitous advice—advice differ¬
ing as widely as the poles, and unaccompanied by offers to pay the
expenses of that which the speakers suggest. Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons
have asked them to talk to the former on other subjects, but in vain.
After this public notice, perhaps Dr. Slade, in his weak state of health,
may be relieved from unasked, though well-meant, intrusion, and those
who have anything to say will confer with Mr. Simmons only.
ii£
Oct. 6, 1876*
THE SEIElTtTALlST.
licettg.
THE RED MAN.
An Extract from Charles Sprague's Centennial Ode.
At the celebration of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of the settlement of
Boston, in September, 1830, a Centennial Ode was spoken by Charles
Sprague, the banker poet, who died last year at the ripe age of eighty-four
years. Mr. Sprague’s truthful and sympathetic references to the wrongs and
the injustice of the Indian tribes of North America at the hands of the white
men were not the least meritorious portions of the ode, and as they have an
especially mournful interest at this time, we copy below a brief extract:—
I venerate the Pilgrim’s cause,
Yet for the red man dare to plead ;
We bow to Heaven’s recorded laws—
He turned to Nature for a creed ;
Beneath the pillared dome
We seek our God in prayer,
Through boundless woods he loved to roam,
And the Great Spirit worshipped there.
But one, ono fellow-throb with us he felt—
To one divinity with us he knelt;
Freedom, the self-same freedom we adore,
Bade him defend his violated shore.
He saw the cloud ordained to grow
And burst upon his hills in woe ;
He saw his people withering by,
Beneath the invader’s evil eye;
Strange feet were trampling on his father’s bones;
At midnight hour he woke to gaze
Upon his happy cabin’s blaze,
And listen to his children’s dying groans.
He saw,—and, maddening at the sight,
Gave his bold bosom to the fight;
To tiger rage his soul was driven;
Mercy was not—nor sought, nor given ;
The pale man from his lands must fly—
He would be free, or he would die !
And was this savage ? Say,
Ye ancient few,
Who struggled through
Young freedom’s trial day,
What first your sleeping wrath awoke ?
On your own shores war’s larum broke ;
What turned to gall even kindred blood ?
Round your own homes the oppressor stood ;
This every warm affection chilled,
This every heart with vengeance thrilled,
And strengthened every hand ;
From mound to mound
The word went round—
“ Death for our native land! ”
# * * *
And ye this holy place who throng,
The annual theme to hear,
And bid the exulting song
Sound their great names from year to year;
Ye, who invoke the chisel’s breathing grace
In marble majesty their forms to trace ;
Ye, who the sleeping rocks would raise
To guard their dust and speak their praise ;
Ye, who, should some other band
With hostile foot defile the land,
Feel that ye like them would wake,
Like them the yoke of bondage break,
Nor leave a battle-blade undrawn,
Though every hill a sepulchre should yawn—
Say, have not yejme line for those,
One brother line to spare,
Who rose but as your fathers rose
And dared as ye would dare ?'
Alas for them ! their day is o’er!
Their fires are out on hill and shore;
No more for them the wild deer bounds ;
The plough is on their hunting grounds ;
The pale man’s axe rings through their woods,
The pale man’s sail skims o’er their floods,
Their pleasant springs are dry ;
Their children—look ! by power oppressed,
Beyond the mountains of the West
Their children go—to die !
©amsponxience.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to time of this journal and its readers.]
11 SCIENTIFIC ACCURACY.” j)
Sir,—In your exhaustive report of the discussion relative to Spirit- 11
ualism, which lately took place at the meeting of the British Associa- i)
tion for the Advancement of Science, I find Ur. Carpenter explaining : (
to his audience the meaning of the term “ Diluted insanity,” as em- i)
ployed by him in reference to those persons who believe that many of |)
the so-called Spiritualistic phenomena are the results of an unseen in- i (
telligence, other than that of the persons who are engaged in the |)
immediate investigation of the said phenomena. In his speech (vide j |
page 94 of 2 he Spiritualist, September 22nd), Dr. Carpenter adduces | (
an example of “ diluted insanity,” as occurring in the case of a medical |)
man, who had asked him whether it were true that he had expressed ] j
himself as holding that every believer in Spiritualism was affected j)
with C( diluted insanity." He then proceeds to state the nature of the
communication made to him by the aforesaid medical m^n, and ends
by quoting the advice kindly given by him to this victim of the malady
in question.
Now, Sir, T have an impression that I myself have been made the
example of the diluted insanity” theory, and pray remark that I use
the word impression, inasmuch as the account given by Dr. Carpenter
is so different from that which I communicated to him that I have
some difficulty in reconciling the two, more especially bearing in mind
the great importance attached by Dr. Carpenter to absolute accuracy
in all things connected with scientific investigation.
1st. Dr. Carpenter says that “ I went on to tell him that I had a
garret in my house, in which a number of things were put away.” I
said (or wrote, rather) nothing of the kind. What I did say was that
a friend of mine going into his bedroom, after two hours’ absence, found
certain articles from a dressing-case and toilet table arranged upon his
bed in the form of a cross in apparent process of formation.
2ndly. I am reported to have stated—u That this garret was kept
locked”; but, as there was no garret in the house, it is somewhat
difficult to understand how, except, perhaps, upon the “ diluted in¬
sanity ” theory, I could possibly have said so ; which, however, be it
understood, I did not.
3rdly. Dr. Carpenter then says that— “They went into it one day,
and found that these things were all brought together upon the bed.”
Now, sir, I again repeat, that a more inaccurate report of what
actually did take place, and was communicated as such by me to Dr.
Carpenter, can scarcely be conceived. My version of the occurrence
was, that on first observing the arrangement of the toilet, we examined
the apartment, inside and outside, most carefully; and, having
thoroughly satisfied ourselves (i.e., my wife and a gentleman, a per¬
sonal friend, then my guest) that it was, at all events, possible to
prevent further ingress (supposing that trickery had been at work),
we locked the door, and took the key; but, so far from, as Dr. Carpenter
says, allowing a fortnight to elapse, we visited the room in half-an-hour,
and continued to do so at similar intervals during the afternoon,
and with the same results, viz., the discovery of a gradual development
of what we had rightly imagined to be a cross, composed of every small
toilet article that could be found in the room, laid out with the utmost
symmetry upon the surface of the counterpane; and not of “ all my
crockery piled upon the bed,” as Dr. Carpenter chose to interpret it
in the letter received from him upon the subject.
Now, it is possible that Dr. Carpenter may regard such discrepancy
as being of no consequence, and that a loose approximation to the real
facts may serve equally well the purpose of illustrating what the
eminent physiologist means by “ diluted insanity ; ” but it is certainly
doing scant justice to the care with which the sequence of phenomena
described above was actually investigated, publicly to give a careless
and erroneous version of the same, and then, as a deduction there¬
from, to assert that I and two other witnesses were the unhappy
victims of “ diluted insanity,” because, having no other possible loop¬
hole, we, for other and very sufficient reasons, had arrived at the con¬
clusion that an intelligence outside of, an independent of, an organised
corporeity, had been manifesting itself. If Dr. Carpenter calls this
method of treating a carefully-worded and, I assert, accurate state¬
ment of certain facts, submitted to him by a correspondent, “scientific
accuracy,” I, as an humble and comparatively unknown individual, can
hug myself in the conviction that, although possibly the victim of
“ diluted insanity,” such has never been my method of procedure.
G. T. Speer, M.D. Edin. and New York.
The Marine Hotel, Parade, Cowes, Isle of Wight,
Sept. 30th, 1876.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
Sir,—In your paper of June 20th, there is a paragraph headed
“Pealing of Bells.” “Moth” inquires if any one can give authentic
information of such phenomena as Kinglake records in Eothen. I
can affirm that I have experienced almost exactly the same, excepting
that I did not hear bells, but harmony of another description. I will
relate what I know circumstantially.
On the first occasion I had slept in the day-time, and heard while
sleeping, as it were, a choir singing, or rather chanting, with very slow
and measured cadence. This awoke me, and for at least half a minute
after I was awake the sound continued. I even distinguished the words
of a line.
On the second occasion I was awoke by the grand rolling melody of
a cathedral organ. This also continued after I was awake. More or
less I have had other clairaudient experiences of a slighter nature, but
I only record the above as they seem to be more applicable to the case
in point. I may also add that although I have been a medium since
1873, and daily see such wonders that I really sometimes do not know
which world I am in, no instances of spiritual favours affected me so
strongly as these; had it not been so I perhaps should not have troubled
you with what contains nothing very new or original. To explain how
they affected me is quite impossible. I cannot convey to others any
idea of the sights or sounds of that world ; we want the language of that
world, and failing that are held dumb. I see in the same edition of
The Spiritualist accounts of, Indian Spiritualism. The Irfdli Urn, or
divination by the lota, is well known to every native, and there is much
besides that accords in every way with our modern science. Cures by
mesmerism are more common than cures by doctors. Magic is practised,
but those who are proficient keep it very secret; and, of course, divi¬
nation to discover thieves would be utterly scouted by police magis¬
trates. As to fakirs, I think our English friends know very little of
these people, and some blunders are the consequence,
Henry Bocke, Late Captain in Her Majesty's Army,
Hyderabad, India, Aug. 30th.
tttJS SPItU^tTAtlS^.
117
Oct. 6, 1876.
SEERSHIP AND REINCARNATION.
Sir,—Spiritualists as a whole are, I believe, ready with Margaret
Fuller to “ accept the universe,” so would no doubt all become believers
in the doctrine of reincarnation if it had any better basis than mere
speculation, confirmed by the utterances of a few mediums.
For if it be so, so it is you know,
And if it be so, so be it.
There is no reliable evidence in support of the doctrine, and I think
there is strong reliable evidence against it. No seer, whether ancient
or modern, has, so far as I am aware, given any testimony in its favour.
T. L. Harris knows nothing of such a doctrine. A. J. Davis has never
taught it. Emanuel Swedenborg, who had daily intercourse with the
spiritual and angelic worlds for upwards of twenty-five years, speaks of
such a belief only to explain its origin. Thus, in his treatise on Con-
jugial Love, he says :—“ If a spirit were to speak with a man from his
own memory, the man would appropriate the spirit’s memory as his
own, and his mind would become confused with the recollection of
things which he had never heard or seen. That this is the case has been
given me to know from much experience. In consequence of the
memories of spirits getting mixed with men’s, some of the ancients con¬
ceived the idea that they had existed in another realm previous to their
birth on earth. Thus they accounted for the possession of memories
which they knew had not originated in ordinary experience.”
And in his Spiritual Diary, No. 3,917, he writes :—“ It was shown
by experience that when spirits act upon man from their own memory
of particulars, man does not know otherwise than that he was pre¬
viously cognisant of them, as was evinced to-day (Nov. 9th, 1748); thence
is the kind of recollection of which Cicero speaks, as if he had known
certain things previously. Hence it appears what confusion would arise
if spirits were to act upon man from their memory of particulars, and
not from the memory of the man. On a former occasion also a spirit
acted from his memory of particulars upon me, when I was not aware
but that I had known the thing, though I had in fact known nothing at
all about it.”
The Swedish Seer also affirms that he had conversed with spirits who
had lived upon earth more than two thousand years since; yet no one,
whether spirit or angel, had ever heard of a possibility of his being re¬
incarnated.
What Jesus said of John the Baptist is no evidence in support of
this theory,, unless it could be shown that there was no Elias in the
spiritual world who was the influencing spirit of John. In the Mount
of Transfiguration the veritable Elias appeared with Moses, and though
the three disciples had known John personally, and had not known
Elias, they did not confound the one with the other. J. W. F.
MISS LOTTIE fowler’s DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA.
Sir,—On Thursday night last Miss Lottie Fowler, accompanied by
myself and Mrs. Regan to Euston station, took her departure for Glasgow
(on route for America), where she will stay a few days at the Blythswood
Hotel, Argyll-street, thence to Edinburgh for a similar period, and,
lastly, to Liverpool, staying at Wall’s Temperance Hotel, No. 1, Islington,
until she embarks for America. I am desired by Miss Fowler to express
her thanks, through the medium of your paper, to the executive of the
British National Association of Spiritualists for the kind invitation given
her to their soiree of the 4th inst., which she is thus prevented from
attending. J. Regan.
37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, Oct. 1st, 1876.
A MYSTERIOUS FACE.
Sir,—I quote the following from an American religious weekly called
The Restitution, of Aug. 30th. It is in substance very similar to the account
lately given of an appearance at intervals upon one of the windows of Holy
Trinity Church, "York. In this instance, however, the figure seems to be
permanent upon the glass. Perhaps some American correspondent may
be able to throw more light upon the subject:—
“ A correspondent of the Harrison News, writing from Forest, gives
the following account of the mysterious appearance of a woman’s portrait
on a church window in that village :—
“ During the last two years something has been making its appearance
on one of the glasses in the church window, and now it is plainly a true
picture of a woman. It can be seen as far as ten rods from the church.
The glass is perfectly clear and smooth on the inside, and nothing can be
seen of the picture on the inside. Hundreds of people have been to see it.
11 is a great mystery to all, and cannot be accounted for. Different things
have been tried on it to rub it off, but to no effect As the church is
within two hundred yards of my house I have plenty of opportunities of
seeing the picture, and I know it is getting plainer every day. If any
person doubts this, abundance of proof can be had to substantiate the
above.” M.
Grange, Sept. 25th, 1876.
[A thin film of platinum burnt into the surface of a window pane, will give
it the properties of a lookiqg-glass when viewed from the outside of the house,
and of a transparent shoot of glass when looked through from the inside, and
on this principle the picture of a face could bo made. Whatever the explana¬
tion may bo, narratives like the above are multiplying in America, but we do
not wish to give further space to this subject unless the facts are properly
authenticated.—Ed.]  
SPIRITUALISM AND BERKELEYISM.
Srn,—I have road Mr. St. George Stock’s article with much atten¬
tion, but must confess that I do not see the special bearing of Berkeley’s
theory on Spiritualism. Do any Spiritualists deny the external world of
matter or ascribe all the facts of our nature to the immediate action of
God upon our mind ? I should like to ask Mr. Stock what he means in
referring the facts of Spiritualism to the supernatural. He says, “ The
long mooted question of miracles is at length decisively settled by
Spiritualism. Miracles do actually occur.” And he says that “ phenomena ”
means in plain English “facts.” But surely the causes of phenomena
Arc facts, or does he not believe in causes, ignoring them altogether with
j|| Comte? As regards mesmerism and Spiritualism, Mr. Stock’s remarks
|)j on mental sympathy and induced impressions are very illustrative, and
| M we must remember that the medium more resembles the mesmerised per-
f || son than the mesmeriser; the operator may induce in him an extra-
hj ordinary amount of muscular power, without the patient, though ab-
| )j normally awake, having any consciousness of the fact. For instance, he
I) i may cause him to hold out the arm with a heavy weight to it for an hour
II together, without his experiencing any fatigue, so that supposing the
operator to be a spirit it may have the force at its command. But “psychic
force ” is as improper an expression as “ psychology” for the study of the
j problems of life and mind. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-snr-Mer. - •
SPIRITUALISM AT PENZANCE.
i)! Sir,—A small place, very far west, where the London morning papers
j | j arrive at 7.15 p.m., a visitor sees a copy of The Spiritualist on the counter
\(\ in a newsagent’s shop. “ Many Spiritualists here?” Shopwoman—“ Oh!
m dear no, sir; only one, a stranger. We get that for him. We’re much
! | too enlightened here for that sort of thing.” Visitor—“Ah! I see, you
111 get your news rather late in the day.” There were, however, bills posted
i (j about the town and neighbouring villages, announcing the visits of two
in conjurors, within a few days of one another, both of whom made the
i) I annihilation of Spiritualism the chief feature of their programme. These
: / j people ought to be prosecuted for trying to produce abortion. They would
i (i stay Spiritualism ere it is bom. A. Joy.
! I  
mr. park harrison’s vision.
|) j Sir,—The remarkable accuracy and fairness of your account of the
i) I discussion at Glasgow on Mr. Barrett’s paper, leads me to believe that you
|(j will readily supply some omissions, and correct an error of some import-
i \ \ ance in the report of my remarks on that occasion.
|) | In alluding to the heat of the brain, when abnormally excited, I spoke
j | j of experiments that had been successfully made with thermometers, for
i (i the purpose of suggesting to medical men the advisability of ascertaining
Hi by similar means the state of the brain of young girls, who, as Dr.
i) | Heaton warned the meeting, might be seriously injured, and that for life,
j); by incautious experiments.
H! 2. I alluded to having seen an apparition some years ago when
H| threatened with brain fever. This was an exceptional case, but even
I j | when the brain is in a far less diseased and excited state, the senses are
i) | liable to be deceived more than they are when the brain is “ cool,” and
111 surrounding objects are often absolutely unnoticed.
ij| 3. I quoted the case of “Katie King” to show that minds of great
|) | capacity may be unable to detect imposture. There can be no doubt that
i) i Dr. Child and Mr. Dale Owen (who had better opportunity than Mr.
! /1 Wallace of ascertaining the actual facts) were satisfied that the person
i) | with whom the Holmes’s lodged did act the part of Katie King. Where
hi is there any notice that either of the above-named gentlemen withdrew
i 11 the letters that he sent to the public press announcing the fact that they
j 11 had been deceived ?
j (I I may mention that I proposed that Mr. Barrett’s paper should be read
i | i and discussed by the committee of Section D at a special meeting, and
| i greatly regret that the suggestion was not adopted.
I (I St. Martin’s-place, Oct. 2nd. J, Park Harrison,
i I  
DIVINATION AMONG THE NATIVES ON THE ZAMBESI.
Sir,—The following extract from a letter recently sent home by a
i j | gentleman who has gone to South Africa for both health and sport, may
m be of sufficient interest to insert in your journal:—
|j “A very curious incident now occurred I am half afraid to tell you
I i about it, for you will certainly ridicule me. I’m not exactly superstitious,
i i and before I came up here I should myself have been the first to laugh at
; i anything of the kind; but now—though I don’t say anything about my
m belief—I confess I’m fairly puzzled. The case is this:—The natives about
j (| here have a system of ‘ divining ’ by throwing certain curiously marked
I I pieces of ivory—three in number—shaped like key-labels, and about an
I ! inch and a-half in length. These they rattle in their hands for some
in time, muttering probably some charm, and asking out loud, repeatedly,
Hi the question to which they want an answer. Then they throw the
Hi ‘ bones’ down on the ground, and according to the manner in which they fall
j) I so the professors of the art give their auguries. This, no doubt, sounds
j|l very ridiculous in your enlightened ears (excuse the bull about ears
: \ i and light). But wait a bit. I have said that Robertson left Daeka on
i) i the 8th, intending, if he met with any sport, to stay six weeks or so,
|) | in the hill country, which begins thirty miles, or so, to the west of Daeka.
“ On the 21st [Aug. 1874], Jim, the Mabiquer, who was so seriously
I j; wounded by an elephant during the river trip when I went down for com,
i | i and who was a great professor with the bones—on the 21st, early in the
i j i morning, Jim went through his performances, throwing his bones re-
I) i peatedly. He then announced that Robertson was coming back to Daeka,
| i that he would be back that afternoon about three o’clock, that he had
j) | shot elephants (no number specified), and that he was walking very fast, as
! | i though in a great hurry. Jim had been right once or twice before, so I
I I paid particular attention to this announcement. At three o’clock Robert-
: i son returned ! bringing with him the tusks of two elephants he had shot!
Hi No sooner was he in the house than he asked for something to eat, saying
I) j he felt done up, having started that morning before sunrise, and having
|) j walked steadily on to camp without even stopping to cook breakfast. He
i I had walked about five-and-twenty miles, and at the time Jim pronounced
: j i his augury Robertson was literally walking very fast, as if in a great
|) I hurry. It seems that he had felt unwell whilst in the veldt, and feared
|) j a relapse of the fever, from such a sharp attack of which he suffered
i I when I was buying corn. He, therefore, returned to Daeka, not caring
H i to risk an illness out in the bush.
Hi “Now what do you think of Jim’s remarkably precise divination?
I ; Remember he had no possible means of knowing what Robertson was
I i doing—no strangers had been to the camp who could give him news
i (| about Robertson, and Robertson’s return was quite unexpected. I was fairly
| I puzzled ! Now you will probably say that this was merely a remarkable
|)j coincidence, or a very lucky guess on Jim’s part. But listen to this.
111 There was another professor among our boys. I took notes of thirteen
H j cases which came under my own personal observation. Jim threw five
111 times, Tom eight times. Their auguries involved thirty distinct state-
i) i ments of which five were distinct unambiguous prophecies (one of which I
118
TfiE SPIUIIUALIST. Oct. 6, 18^6.
mention below), and tbe only error in the whole thirty statements was
this: Jim said on the 22nd that John would be back on the following day
early—pointing to where the sun would be at nine a.m. John came back
next day but did not reach camp till one o’clock. This was the only in¬
accuracy in the whole thirteen cases of divination.
“ I can’t spare space to mention the particulars of all these auguries in a
letter, but I mean to write a full account of them, and having stated the
facts, leave others to form their own opinions.”
********
“ Next day August went out on his own account in one direction and I
went another way. Tom threw the bones—“ acata ” they call them—and
prophesied that August would shoot first a cow [elephant], then a big bull,
and then a smaller bull, and he added that in each case, if August were
not very sharp, the Mabiquers, who had guns, would be too quick for
him, and would put in the first shot. Now, by the hunters’ rules, the
man who first wounds the elephant—no matter how slightly—is said to
kill him, and claims the ivory. As the boys were hunting for me, it did
not matter a straw who killed the elephants ; but August naturally wanted
to have the credit of doing so, and he had such faith in the prophecy that
he asked me to give special orders to the Mabiquers not to fire before him. .
I did so. A week afterwards August joined me again at another skarm.
He and his party had shot first a cow, then a big bull (50 lbs. one tusk),
then a smaller bull; but in each case, in spite of my orders, the Mabiquers
were too quick for him, and got the first shot! Was that merely a
curious coincidence?”
* * * * * * * *
“ That night Tom threw the bones, and prophesied that next day I
should shoot a bull elephant, and August would shoot another, and that
this time August would get the first shot at his. Next morning we went
out with nine Kaffirs and five guns. . . . [The prophecy was fulfilled.]
. . . I went back in triumph to the skarm, where I had left Tom, the
prophet, in charge. He did not seem at all elated with the success of his
prediction, but took it quite as a matter of course.”
[A gun had been stolen, Samiland and two others had been sent to their
Kraal—-100 miles away—to look for the thief. Robertson and Andries
were off hunting.]
“ On Sept. 13th Jim threw the bones, and announced that Robertson
would return that afternoon, and that Andries would return on the third
from that, both with ivory. Robertson and Andries came back, as fore¬
told, and both with ivory! On the 18th Jim threw again. He said that
Samiland had found the thief, had got the gun, and was coming back,
but was not bringing the thief with him; he was far off, would sleep
three nights more in the bush, aud would be back on the fourth day.
And he was perfectly correct! Now, on the 18th, Samiland was just
leaving Wankie’s Kraal, where he found the thief, and was therefore quite
a hundred miles away, These be facts; let those account for them who
may.”
I offer no comment on the foregoing statements; the writer is a gentle¬
man of the highest integrity, not given to any superstitious belief, and
his testimony to the existence and mode of divination in Africa, regarded
simply as the record of a savage custom, is of singular interest. No doubt
odd coincidences account for a good deal of the success of the predictions,
but it seems difficult to explain them all in this way. Is it possible that
some sort of supersensuous perception was possessed by the diviner of
which possibly we get occasional glimpses elsewhere ? Oh this, ques¬
tion I am anxious to seek for further evidehce. Can any of your readers
help me ? W. F. B.
Because of his absence from town, Mr. S. C. Hall was unable to attend
the meeting of Spiritualists relating to the prosecution of Dr. Slade; he,
however, writes from Bath—“ I saw Slade but once, and only once; if I
were in London I should certainly see him again. My conviction was,
and is, that there was not, and could not be, fraud. But'before ‘ I made
up my mind ’ I should certainly see him again.”
Prof. Huxley on Evolution.—Prof. Huxley was present at the meet¬
ing of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, held at
Buffalo. After stating that he was quite unprepared to occupy their atten¬
tion, he said:—“ In England we have no adequate idea of the extent of your
country, its enormous resources, the distances from centre to centre of
population, and we, least of all, understand the great basis of character
which sprung from the other side of the Atlantic. There has been some
talk of the influence of your climate carrying you back to the North
American type. I cannot say that I-can see any signs of that, unless it be
in the development of that virtue of hospitality which prevails among all
savages. Another feature I have observed which fills me with a certain
amount of shame, when I think of what is going on in our country. I
have visited your great Universities of Yale and Harvard, and have seen
how your wealthy men contribute to scientific institutions in a way to
which we are totally unaccustomed in England. The general notion of
an Englishman who becomes rich is to buy an estate and found a family.
The general notion of an American who becomes rich is to do something
for the benefit of the people, and to found an institution whose benefits
shall flow to all. I need hardly say which I regard as the noblest of these
two. It is commonly said there are no antiquities in America, and you
have to come to the Old World to see the past. This may be, so far as
regards the trumpery of 3,000 or 4,000 years of human history. But, in
the larger sense, America is the country to study antiquity. I confess
that the reality somewhat exceeded my expectations. It was my great
good fortune to study in Newhaven the excellent collection made by my
good friend, Prof. Marsh. There does not exist in Europe anything ap¬
proaching it as regards extent, and the geological time it covers, and the
light it throws on the wonderful problem of evolution which has been so
ably discussed before you by Prof. Morse, and which has occupied so
much attention since Darwin’s great work on species. . Before the gather¬
ing of such materials as those to which I have referred, evolution was a
matter of speculation and argument, though we who had adhered to the
doctrine had good grounds for our belief. Now things are changed, and
it has become a matter of fact and history. The history, of evolution, as
a matter of fact, is now distinctly traceable. We know it has happened,
and what remains is the subordinate question of how it happened. I wish
you all good speed, and that this Association, like its sister in Great Bri¬
tain, will sow the seeds of scientific inquiry in all the towns it visits, and
thus help on the great good work.”—Nature.
II THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION ON PROFESSOR BARRETT’S
| PAPER.
From “ The Spectator”
Now that we have before us a full report of Professor
Barrett’s paper, and of the discussion upon it, we may be
| permitted to express our hope that the British Association
| will really take some action on the subject of the paper, in
| spite of the protests of the party which we may call the
| party of superstitious incredulity. We say superstitious
i incredulity, because it is really a pure superstition, and
| nothing else, to assume that we are so fully acquainted wdth
| the laws of Nature, that even carefully examined facts,
| attested by an experienced observer, ought to be cast aside
| as utterly unworthy of credit, only because they do not at
| first sight seem to be in keeping with what is most clearly
| known already. Professor Barrett, we are told, is a
u thoroughly trained [man of science,” “ trained under the
| eye of the most distinguished physicist of the present day,
| Professor Tyndall.” No one, we suppose, has thrown the
| slightest doubt upon his veracity. His paper itself has no
| grain of credulity in it. He catches at no hasty explanation
| of the facts for which he vouches. He is not an advocate of
| the spiritualistic explanation which is so fashionable among
| many. He is not, indeed, so well known as Mr. Crookes,
| whose great experiments on the physical energy of light
| have made him eminent as a man of science, but then his
| paper does not make such immense drafts on the belief of
i men of science as Mr. Crookes’s various papers on kindred
| subjects have made ; and that is in itself a great advantage,
| for Mr. Crookes has evidently procured for himself the repu¬
tation—justly, or unjustly—of having a soft point in his
|| brain somewhere, and accepting evidence on very easy
| terms in testing marvels. Now Professor Barrett’s paper
| shows neither haste to theorise, nor eagerness to accept
i doubtful facts. He relates only what he has tested very
I] carefully himself under all the severest tests he can devise,
| and what he says in relation to mesmerism can probably be
| confirmed by nearly every one who has made mesmerism a
subject of careful study. The description, at least, of his
experiments on the little girl in Westmeath, who, when under
his mesmeric influence, could describe exactly what he him-
| self knew, even though it was a locality in London where she
| had never been, but could not go beyond the contents of his
own thought at the time, may be strongly confirmed from other
Ij sources. An intimate friend of the present writer’s, when in
Calcutta, found the very same limit to the u clairvoyance,” as
it is called, of a native girl, who was thrown into the mes-
l| meric trance. She could describe minutely what was in his
I pockets, so far as he himself knew it, but when the contents
| of his pockets were changed without his knowledge, her
insight failed. So, too, she could describe exactly the place
on wrhich his mind was fixed in England, so far as his own
memory served him. Where his memory failed, her insight
| failed. Certainly all that Professor Barrett said of the
i phenomena of mesmerism, carious as it is, can be adequately
confirmed from other sources.
We cannot see, then, why, when he came to describe the
phenomena he had tested so carefully, in a sphere which
seems to be outside that of the influence of mind on mind,
any one should be disposed to brand him at once as credulous
or unscientific. Let us quote his own very cautious and
deliberate words:—
About twelve months ago I was told that the daughter of a gentleman
of good position in society, a child not quite ten years old, was troubled
|l with knockings, for which no cause could be assigned. These sounds
(| came on whenever tire child was in a passive condition, and apparently
\\ displayed some intelligence, as they would keep time to a tune, or, by
Si rapping at certain letters, would spell out words. As the family were
p living in my neighbourhood, I made their acquaintance, and obtained
)l permission to examine these mysterious knockings. I found that, in the
(i full glare of sunlight—when every precaution to prevent deception had
(i been taken—still these raps would occur, in different parts of the room,
Si entirely out of reach of the child, whose hands and feet I was
|| watching closely. A dozen times have I tested the phenomena in every
(i way that the ingenuity of sceptical friends could suggest, and the result
I was that I could come to no other conclusion but that the sounds were
Si real objective raps, displaying intelligence, and yet certainly not produced
) by any visible cause. I have often had the sounds occurring on a small
)\ table, above and below1 the surface of which my hands were placed, and
(i have felt the jarring of the laps on that part of the table enclosed be-
ji tween my hands. I have taken sceptical friends to witness these pheno-
/i mena, and their testimony agrees with mine. It must be borne in mind
M that the conditions of the experiment are singularly unfavourable either
Oct. 6, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
116
for fraud or hallucination. To avoid the possibility of the former, I have | |
held the hands and feet of the child, and still obtained the knockings; j
they have occurred on the lawn, on an umbrella, far removed from the ])
possibility of deception by servants. Then, again, the impressions made j
on the senses by the bright sunlight, conversation, and movement, were i (
perpetually correcting any tendency to fall into a state of reverie, even j
had I not specially guarded myself against this danger. I can give no j
explanation of the occurrence, but it is a curious fact that these mani- j
festations, after rising to a maximum, in the case of this child, gradually j j
faded away, and now have entirely ceased. All that can be said con- |
cerning the child is that her health is stronger now than when subject to !
this curious malady. Were it imposture on her part, she would be more i|
likely now to produce these manifestations, as, the interest of friends i
having been excited, temptations to deceit, through desire for notoriety, j
are stronger now than during the time of my investigation, when scarcely j j
any one outside her family circle knew of the facts. I think it is my i j
duty to put on record the facts I have narrated. | j
Now is that the language of a fanatic, or of one who was j
greedy of marvel, and had not the discrimination to guard |
against the illusions to which the mind of the observer itself !
is subject? Whatever be the explanation of such facts— j
which of course is a matter for scientific men to discover—it |
is at least a satisfaction to know that in some cases they are I
genuine, as it relieves one of the necessity of assuming the |
existence of such vast masses of credulity and fraud as j
Professor Lankester’s position, for instance, would apparently !
require. No doubt, whatever may be nucleus of reality in f
these eccentric capacities of special organisations, large j
adventitious bodies of hysteric extravagance and illusion and j
direct fraud are quite sure to collect round them. But it is I
at least some comfort to have reason to believe that the origin !
of the whole belief is not in fraud, but in a basis of real fact, I
however much smaller than the structure which credulity j
and superstition raise upon it. M
We cannot pretend to understand the only reason which j
has ever been given why the real occurrence of these extra- j
ordinary phenomena should not be, at least, provisionally jj
accepted, whenever a genuine and careful man of science, j
who commands attention in other departments of observa¬
tion, attests them. Dr. Carpenter is reported to have said,
in the British Association :—“ We scientific men accept Mr.
Crookes’s statements upon the radiometer, and upon the
whole series of beautiful researches by which he has brought
that instrument to its present position. Why do we accept
them ? Because these can be reproduced at any time, and
by any person. If Mr. Crookes would show us the pheno¬
mena which he has described, or if you or Dr. Huggins
would show us the phenomena at any time which have
been described in your writings, we would give them
exactly the same attention; ” and that remark was
received in the section with general applause. Now
Dr. Carpenter's valuable book on “ Mental Physio¬
logy ” is crammed full of facts which he himself be¬
lieves, and which we are most of us willing to accept
on his authority, or on the other excellent authorities
which he quotes, but which the excuse wrhich he here sug¬
gests would be, as far as we can see, just as good reason for
rejecting, as it is for rejecting absolutely the attestations of
Mr. Barrett, or Mr. Wallace, or Mr. Crookes, concerning
these marvellous phenomena. Dr. Carpenter could hardly
reproduce at pleasure, for a crowd of curious inquirers, a
single one of the strange phenomena of sleep-walking, or
dual memory, or exalted faculty during the hours of sleep,
which he so carefully records and so ably discusses. If we
are to reject good and scientific testimony as to abnormal
states of body or mind solely on the plea that it cannot be
reproduced at pleasure, more than half the scientific data
given us in Dr. Carpenter’s valuable book should certainly
be treated by scientific men as if they were little more than
imaginary. We do not suppose that Dr. Carpenter meant
to say this. What he did, no doubt, mean to say, and what
is very wise and undeniable, is*, that a scientific man
will not at once accept as fact everything, however little in
keeping with other experience, which another scientific man
has observed, until other scientific men come upon similar
facts, which tend to verify and confirm these observations.
That is a very sound position. And it applies to the ab¬
normal facts stated in his own work just so far as they
have not been repeatedly verified, either in detail, or at
least in type, by several independent observers. But that a j
is no reason at all for not accepting the deliberate state¬
ments of such scientific men as Mr. Barrett, or Mr.
Wallace, or Mr. Crookes—as at least establishing a case
for careful inquiry and investigation, still less for asserting
that there is -no occasion to inquire until one of them can
reproduce all the facts he has observed in presence of
a full section of the British Association. The fact is,
of course that this last condition is possible at all only in
relation to a very limited department of physical science-—
experimental science. Even for the phenomenon of an
occultation or an eclipse, you must wait till the conditions
of an occultation or an eclipse recur. Where you are
dealing with peculiar organisations, especially if there is
any reason to believe them morbid organisations, it is
absurd to suppose you can get your phenomena when and
where you will. Professor Barrett’s patient began to lose
her peculiar power just when it was beginning to excite
most attention, and it would be simply childish to say that
because this was so she never had it. You might just as
well argue that because a man recovers from the dual state
of consciousness, which is sometimes caused by a great blow
on the brain, or a brain fever, this dual state of conscious¬
ness never existed, and that its phenomena are not worth
study. We are quite sure that Dr. Carpenter does not
really hold the view which his language seems to convey,
otherwise he would not be so ready, as he evidently is, to
investigate this curious subject. Nevertheless, the language
itself may mislead. It is evident that there are persons
who think—we do not believe that Dr. Carpenter is one
of them, though Professor Lankester evidently is—that
utter incredulity is the right and scientific state of mind
in relation to such facts as are detailed by Professor
Barrett, and who are greatly fortified in that opi¬
nion by detecting a gross fraud now and then—though
such frauds would most likely have never been con¬
ceived or devised, if there had not been some curious
phenomena to imitate, which had previously inspired a
well-founded confidence. It seems to us that science incurs
a very serious danger of forcing persons who are not really
competent to pursue these investigations with sufficient
strictness, to dabble in them, and, perhaps, founder in
waters quite too deep for them, when it holds aloof in grand
incredulity from a class of phenomena which have now con¬
quered a certain amount of belief from a good many highly
disciplined intellects, and when it is disposed to affix a sort
of stigma to the mere investigation of them. Mr. Ray
Lankester is profoundly right in saying that there is a “ quite
unsuspected amount of incapacity for observing ” among us
ordinary mortals. That is quite true. But the way to
increase the amount, instead of to diminish it, is to leave
ordinary mortals, unassisted by the more disciplined obser¬
vation of men* of science, to deal with complicated and
abnormal phenomena, and to tell them they are fools for
asking questions at all about matters of which they hear so
much. It is the close attention of men of science to these
abnormal facts which will dispel the illusions and supersti¬
tions of practical men. But men of science cannot even
begin to teach us without receiving with due respect all
cautious and sifted statements, such as Professor Barrett’s,
of the facts, and taking these as the basis for their inquiry.
To assume, as Professor Lankester appears to do, that
because there are fraud and credulity in plenty to be found
in connection with these facts—as there is, no doubt, in
connection with all nervous diseases,—fraud and credulity
will account for all the carefully attested statements of
accurate and conscientious observers, is to saw away at the
very branch of the tree of knowledge on which inductive
science necessarily rests, and to bring the whole structure
toppling to the ground.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The announcement of a series of stances
with Mrs. Bassett, honorary member, attracted an exceptionally large
muster of members and visitors to the rooms of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston., B., on
Thursday evening last week, when the first stance of the s'eries was held .
There were present Mr. John Rouse, Mr. William Collier, Mr. S. H.
Cargille, Miss E.M. Thomson, Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Monteath, Mrs. Amelia
Corner, and her two daughters, Caroline and Nina, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr.
and Mrs. Cocker, Miss Bilger, Miss McKellar, Mr., Mrs., and Miss Pardo,
Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Mr. Arthur Vaughan, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. W. H. Wood, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mr. R. Lovell,
Mr. S. Park, Mrs. and Miss Blyton, and Mr. Thomas Blyton. The
manifestations were of the usual description through Mrs. Bassett’s
mediumghip.
120 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 6, 1876.
THE DAILY NEWS ON THE PROSECUTION OF
DR. SLADE.
The following is from the Daily News of last Monday :—
The Bow-street Police-court is to be the scene of a somewhat un¬
usual investigation to-day. The sitting magistrate is to be called on
to declare whether the business of a Spiritualist medium is one which
exposes the man who practises it to the censure of the English criminal
law as a rogue and vagabond, or as a person conspiring with his agent
to obtain money by false pretenses, or as both together. The principal
person who has been summoned to appear at Bow-street is Dr. Henry
Slade, who, as we are told in a publication favourable to his cause, has
for fifteen years been before the public of America “ as one of its most
noted mediums.” Mr. Simmons, his managing partner, who, as we
learn from the same source, “ has won for himself much respect by all
who knew him in this country,” is included in the summons. One un¬
lucky effect of the proceedings taken against the gentlemen is that
there may be a possible delay and disappointment to some eminent
members of the aristocracy of a foreign country who are, it would ap¬
pear, rather anxiously expecting a visit from them. The medium and
his manager are, we read, <c in England, en route for St. Petersburg,
Dr. Slade having some time since made an engagement with the Plon.
Alexandre Aksakof and Prince Wittgenstein, as the representatives
in the matter of a considerable section of the Russian nobility, to visit
that capital for the purpose of submitting his powers to the critical
examination of a scientific committee appointed by the St. Petersburg
University.” We should be glad if no step had been taken which
could delay so important an investigation, and disappoint such dis¬
tinguished persons. The investigation to be undertaken by the St:
Petersburg University is one which we should be all the more anxious
to promote because it takes place a long way off. It will not, we trust,
be considered any offence to Dr. Slade, of whose personal merits we
have no means of forming an opinion, if we say that we should feel as
little inclined to detain him in London as “ the Provost, douce man,”
in the famous song, was to interfere with the departure of the gallant
Dundee. A paragraph in the journal to which we have just referred
announces that “ Mr. Simmons has already called the attention of the
American Ambassador to the attack,” meaning, we presume, the pro¬
secution which is to begin to-day. It is not clear to us that the emi¬
nent diplomatist, who is somewhat inaccurately described as the
American Ambassador, has much control over proceedings at Bow-
street, and it seems hardly probable that he will concern himself much
in the matter. But we should not have been sorry if somebody pos¬
sessed of influence in the way of private suasion had prevailed upon
the prosecutors not to proceed in this business. We shall, of course,
indulge in no conjecture as to the merits of the case to be submitted to
the magistrate at Bow-street, or speculation as to the view of it he is
likely to take, but we are free to express an opinion as to the wisdom
of making any attempt to have the value of the claims of Spiritualism
tested by a proceeding in a court of law. It will be difficult to get the
public in general to take any other view of the object of the pro¬
ceedings to be instituted at Bow-street, and we must say that an at¬
tempt having any such object looks to us like a mistake.
No great advantage, as it seems to us, is gained by hostile investiga¬
tions of the spiritualistic manifestations, either in private drawing¬
rooms or in police-courts. It is clear enough that, whatever the nature
of Spiritualism, it has succeeded in obtaining for its so-called revela¬
tions a considerable number of highly intelligent and respectable
believers. This is in itself no evidence whatever in proof of its truth.
The most preposterous delusions have constantly been supported by
the belief of intelligent and respectable persons. In what we may
call transcendental subjects of belief extraordinary intelligence is
hardly a surer guide than ordinary intelligence, or, indeed, than stu¬
pidity. But we are inclined to think that when any belief, were it
that in the Cock-lane Ghost or the stone lion wagging his tail, has
succeeded in drawing respectable and intelligent persons to it, it has
then acquired a sort of title to be let alone. We should think an .
attempt by a scientific man to detect and expose in a court of law the I
manner in which the “ miracle ” of St. Januaries is accomplished at
Naples, rather an ill-judged proceeding. We would rather say—argue,
expound, expose, as much as you like or as you can, but do not attempt
to bring criminal law to bear upon the matter. If people still will |
believe, let them believe. We cannot suppose that any decision which |
a whole bench of judges could pronounce would convince any one who j
now believes in Dr. Slade’s manifestations that he was wrong in be¬
lieving in them. More than that, if Dr. Slade were to-morrow to
be proved beyond all doubt the most arrant impostor that ever duped
a crowd, if he were not only to be proved, but to confess himself an j
impostor, and to do voluntary penance in a white sheet, it would not
convince any believer in Spiritualism that Spiritualism was a delu¬
sion. How could it ? Why should it ? No Spiritualist, we presume,
professes to believe that every medium must needs be an honest man.
No Spiritualist, we suppose, has ever declared that he pinned his faith, i
unconditionally, on the genuineness of any particular set of mani¬
festations, or the integrity of any particular man. We should none
of us have anything left to believe in if we were to reject a creed the |
moment it became apparent that one of its expounders was supporting j(
it by fraudulent evidence. Nothing therefore that could be proved I1
against Dr. Slade would affect in the slightest degree the claims or ||
the position of Spiritualism. It is certain, however, that a prosecu- [.
tion will seem to many persons as illogical and unfair a mode of j'
dealing with Dr. Slade’s manifestations as a box on the ear would be. i!
Nor is Spiritualism likely to be disposed of by the scientific investi- ]<
gations which every now and then appear to be undertaken by some l1
sanguine person, who thinks that human delusion is to be cured by the |J
production of evidence which satisfies him that it is delusion. There j \
is something half-melancholy, half-amusing in these earnest and futile 11
. jji efforts. They remind one of that sort of controversial literature which
ill is represented by The Errors of Rationalism in a Nutshell, or The
i|i Follies of Romanism extracted in Three Questions. The exposure is
ijl always convincing to the person who exposes ; the only difficulty is to
if | get the other person to see it in the same light. In the case of Spirit-
in ualism there is perhaps a somewhat peculiar difficulty. The case
m against it avers, of course, that some of its expounders are jugglers,
i j i But every professional juggler will tell us that the success of his tricks
j j I depends in great measure upon the fact that the skilful hand can do
Hi things which the eye cannot follow; that no matter how we maybe
I | prepared and forewarned by the performer himself, he can still make,
i 11 under our very eyes, movements which those eyes are unable to detect.
;j| If we suppose a medium to be in any instance only a professional
ill j uggler, what probability is there that he will allow us to detect his
| j i j uggling in an investigation of which he himself prescribes the condi-
’ |j j: tions ? We should like to know what chance there would be for the
||i keenest intelligence to find out the way in which a Robert Houdin
| | accomplished some of his wonders, if Houdin were allowed to arrange
| i how and where the investigators were to sit, and what they might do,
| i and what they might not do. We venture to assume that even if the
| | whole belief in Spiritualism could be referred to the operation of mere
j | jugglery on credulous minds—an explanation which we fancy would
| | satisfy few reasonable persons—there would still be little chance of
Hi exposing the deception on conditions arranged by those who are con-
| | cerned in keeping it up. We do not want to discourage energetic and
Be inquiring persons from investigating as often as they please for their
| | own amusement or satisfaction, but we may fairly warn them against
| | expecting to do much in that way towards the enlightenment of those
| | who at present believe in Spiritualism. In any case, we are for
I j admitting Spiritualism to a place among tolerated beliefs, and letting it
|j | alone accordingly. It has many votaries who are as intelligent as most
| | of us, and to whom any obvious and palpable defect in the evidence
Hi meant to convince must have been obvious and palpable long ago.
| | Some of the wisest men in the world believed in ghosts, and would
|j| have continued to do so even though half-a-dozen persons in succession
|j| had been convicted of frightening people with sham goblins.
Spiritualism at the British Association.—In a letter in The Dublin
Express, Professor W. F. Barrett says:—“ I have just received a copy of a
London weekly paper, called The Spiritualist, and Journal of Psychological
Science, and in it I find not only a most faithful report of my essay, but
an absolutely verbatim report of all the discussion thereon. It is much to
the credit of the editor of that journal that he has so frankly and fairly
given the whole proceedings, for much in my paper and the subsequent
speeches must have been entirely opposed to his own opinions.”
Spiritualism and Professing Men of Science.—Hitherto Nature
the organ of English men of science, and a very superior journal, edited
by Mr. J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S., has treated Spiritualism fairly in the
little it has said on the subject. Dr. Balfour Stewart once dealt with the
question in its pages. In Nature of Sept. 21st is the following paragraph :
“ Among the later discussions of the British Association meeting no
doubt that which has excited most general notice was the debate on Prof.
Barrett’s paper on ‘ Certain Abnormal Conditions of Mind.’ There can
be little question that in one sense it dealt with subjects suitable for the
department of Anthropology, and the scientific repute of Mr. Crookes,
Mr. Wallace, Lord Rayleigh, and Prof. Barrett, necessitates the careful
examination of anything they may bring forward. But it is doubtful
whether the interests of science are best served by the introduction of
subjects which are sure to provoke heated and unscientific discussion at a
mixed meeting like that of the Association.”
Spiritualism at Home.—The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne), prints
the following letter:—“ Our family circle consists of myself, wife, and four
children, one boy aged twelve, and three girls aged respectively ten,
eight, and seven years. We had the usual table manifestations, and
writing with planchette for about two years; then the children saw
showers of flowers and infant spirits, we ourselves seeing nothing but
an occasional light; next they began to describe scenes in people’s
(visitor’s) lives, occurring before they (the children) were born; next
occurred the levitation of flowers gathered from the mountain, rising
from the table, whirling about the room, and falling into the children’s
laps : but the most wonderful of all has been the teaching of the children
(by the spirits) to dance so beautifully that people came for miles to see
them. The spirits first placed them under control, making their limbs
quite rigid. Our eldest girl, Sarah Marion, seems to be a clairvoyant
medium, as she can tell people’s thoughts when they are miles away, and
we repeatedly hear all of them conversing with the spirits. They tell us
they can see the spirits as plain as they do us.—Thomas Wallace,
Buangor.”
Professor S. B. Brittain on Organisation.—The following sen¬
tences are extracted from an article which appeared in the Banner of Light
of Sept. 2nd, in which Professor Brittain, one of the oldest and best in¬
formed Spiritualists in America, gives his views in favour of organisation.
In reply to an inquirer Professor Brittain says—“ Organisation, in its
most vital and comprehensive sense, is a spiritual, natural, and universal
law, clearly illustrated in all visible forms of life. .... This law of
organisation is at once universal, and indispensable to the normal de¬
velopment of all natures and institutions on the earth Each
opponent seems to feel the loss of his own precious individuality by
coherence. The evils we deplore spring from a love of self, and a lust of
power in the individual Let me assure you that organisation is
neither to be viewed as a special convenience in the economy of the
universe, nor as a mere accident among men. On the contrary, it is an
essential law of all matter, operating wherever the forms of life exist.
Spiritualists have not hitherto possessed the machinery necessary to secure
united effort for any specific object. No comprehensive plans have been
presented for their adoption, and we are consequently without the proper
data for estimating the real strength of the movement and the just mea
sure of their liberality.' And hence the demoralising influence of this
insane opposition to organisation No great work was ever accom¬
plished without it.”
Oct. 6, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
. WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM,' by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
(JONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
■A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Appariti»ns,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500. pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed Clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
, book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results, and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that ail spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT ; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM, MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. 7
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY, By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
’ experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
■ ~ ' II.
HI.
IV. „ .
I V „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land <
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
ople
s. d.
3 6
7 0
3 6
7 6
i. d.
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
5 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little, book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds .......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ....
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A„ Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 C
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by anlndian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ,20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vbls. . . . . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1, Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 0. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conan t.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF HR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas B.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
AdoR-hus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet; “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d-
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
tOcT. 6, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison,, Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.G,
[For purposes of mutual, convenience the above office has been
rented .on the premises of the National Association of . Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.].
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOIEN. ‘ Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful , experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumehtality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life.' The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
uali*t Office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, • animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
) logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sod&ti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kabdec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Newspaper
Brancn Office.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
line Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The religio - philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1866.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d, Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111.
"OEFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
JL\j WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefs tad t, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakoe, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tinel as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TBEHERNE (MRS. WELDON).!—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.,
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is'no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.-—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6cL
All the music published hy the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom deplume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica’ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. l£d., post free.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, MoTal,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the f pi ritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fec., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s.- per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to' the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke. ■
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
TTIAST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.—
-UJ LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
East London spiritual meetings.
—Mr. Cogmau’s usual Quarterly Tea Meeting will be
held on Sunday, October 1st, at 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end.
Tea on table at five o’clock. Admission, Is.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at Ham.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance al
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross.
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-*- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent hi the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William.
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of.the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred It.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) ; The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenherg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the.Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Turdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. Janies Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. »H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindegay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the.first fifty words or portion of fifty woids, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisemenis Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the', first post on the previous Wedi.etday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria lane, London,
E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
