4
A f^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREf£ Of THE gCIEJ^CE /ND ETHICf OF fPIF^ITUyvjLIfM.
No. 8.-Yol. t LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1870. Month^Pric" Twfen0ce.every
SPIEIT-RAPPim m JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IK TEK PAETS.—PART PIVE.
Letter V.—From Miss Susannah Wesley to her
brother Samuel.
it Epworth, Jan. 24.
“Dear Brother,—About tbe first of December a
most terrible and astonishing noise was heard by a
maid-servant, as at the dining-room door, which caused
the up-starting of her hair, and made her ears prick
forth at an unusual rate. She said it was like the
groans of one expiring. These so frighted her, that
for a great while she durst not go out of one room into
another after it began to be dark, without company.
But, to lay aside jesting, which should not be done in
serious matters, I assure you that from the first to the^
last of a lunar month the groans, squeaks, tinglings
and knockings were frightful enough.
“Though it is needless for me to send you any
account of what we all heard my father himself hav¬
ing a larger account of the matter than I am able to
give, which he designs to send you; yet, in compliance
with your desire, I will tell you, as briefly as I can,
what I heard of it. The first night I ever heard it
my sister Nancy and I were sitting in the dining-room.
We heard something rush on the outside of the doors
that opened into the garden; then three loud knocks,
immediately after other three, and in half a minute the
same number over our heads. We inquired whether
anybody had been in the garden, or in the room above
us; but there was nobody. Soon after, my sister
Molly and I were up after all the family were a-bed,.
except my sister Nancy, about some business. We
heard three bouncing thumps under our feet, which
soon made us throw away our work and tumble into
bed; afterwards, the tingling of the latch and warming
pan; and so it took its leave that night.
“ Soon after the above-mentioned we heard a noise
as if a great piece of sounding metal was thrown down
on the outside of our chamber. We, lying in the
quietest part of the house, heard less than the test for
a pretty while; but the latter end of the night that
Mr. Hoole sat up on, I lay in the nursery, where it was
very violent. I then heard frequent knocks over and
under the room where I lay, and at the children’s bed¬
head, which was made of boards. It seemed to rap
against it very hard and loud, so that the bed shook
under them. I heard something walk by my bedside,
like a man in a long nightgown. The knocks were so
loud that Mr. Hoole came out of his chamber to us.
■It still continued. My father spoke, but nothing
answered. It ended that night with my father’s par¬
ticular knock, very fierce.
“It is now pretty quiet; only at our repeating
prayers for the king and prince, when it usually begins,
especially when my father says, ‘Our most gracious
Sovereign Lord,’ &c. This my father is angry at, and
designs to say three instead of two for the royal family.
We all heard the same noise, and at the same time, and
as coming from the same place. To conclude this, it
now makes its personal appearance : but of this more
hereafter. Do not say one word of this to our folks,
nor give the least hint.—I am, your sincere friend and
affectionate sister, “ Susannah Wesley.”
Letter YI.—Mr. S. Wesley in answer.
“ Dean’s-yard, Feb. 9, 1716-17.
“Dear Sister Sukey,—Your telling me the spirit
has made its personal appearance, without saying how,
or to whom, or when, or how long, has excited my
curiosity very much. I long mightily for a farther
account of every circumstance by your next letter. Do
not keep me any longer in the dark. Why need you
write the less, because my father is to send me the
whole story ? Has the disturbance continued since the
28th of December ? I understand my father did not
hear it all; but a fortnight after the rest. What did
he say remarkable to any of you when he did hear it ?
As to the devil’s being an enemy to King George, were
I the king myself, I should rather Old Nick should be
my enemy than my friend. I do not like the noise
of the nightgown sweeping along the ground, nor its
knocking like my father. Write when you receive this,
though nobody else should, to your loving brother,
“ S. W.”
Letter YII.—Mr. S. Wesley to his Mother.
“ Dear Mother,—-You say you could multiply par¬
ticular instances of the spirit’s noises; but I want to
know whether nothing was ever seen by any. For
though it is hard to conceive, nay, morally impossible,
that the hearing of so many people could be deceived,
yet the truth will be still more manifest and undeni¬
able if it is grounded on the testimony of two senses.
Has it never at all disturbed you since the 28th of
December ? Did no circumstance give any light into
the design of the whole?—Your obedient and loving
son, “ S. Wesley.”
“ Have you dug in the place where the money seemed
poured at your feet ? ”
Letter YIII.—Mr. S. Wesley to his Father.
“ Honoured Sir,—I have not yet received any answer
to the letter I wrote some time ago; and my mother
in her last seems to say that as yet I know but a very
small part of the whole story of strange noises in our
house. I shall be exceedingly glad to have the entire
account from you. Whatever may be the main design
of such wonders, I cannot thihk they were ever meant
to be kept secret. If they bode anything remarkable
to our family I am sure I am a party concerned.—Your
dutiful son,
“ Feb. 12. “ S. Wesley.”
Letter IX.—From Mr. S. Wesley to his Sister Emily.
“ Dear Sister Emily,—I wish you would let me have
a letter from you about the spirit, as indeed from every
one of my sisters. I cannot think any of you very
superstitious, unless you are much changed since I saw
you. My sister Hetty, I find, was more particularly
troubled. Let me know all. Did anything appear to
her ? I am, your affectionate brother,
“Feb. 12. “S. Wesley.”
Letter X.—From old Mr. Wesley to his son Samuel.
“ Feb. 11, 1716-7.
“Dear Sam,—As for the noises, &c., in our family,
I thank God we are now all quiet. There were some
surprising circumstances in that affair. Your mother
has not written you a third part of it. When I see
you here you shall see the whole account, which I
wrote down. It would make a glorious penny book
for Jack Dunton; but while I live I am not ambitious
for anything of that nature. I think that’s all, but
blessings from your loving father,
“ Sam. Wesley.”
THE RELATIVE VALUE OF SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
The following communication, received through a
test medium, Mrs. French, 22, West Ninth-street,
New York, was given to Mr. George Willets, of 224,
South Third-street, Jersey City, U.S. It purports to
come from Benjamin Franklin, and was published in
the Banner of Light of the 19th of February :—
My Friend in Earth-Life—I do not forget our mu¬
tual efforts to establish a plainer and more direct method
of communication between the spheres. I thought
twenty years ago, as you thought at that time, that it
was necessary to have some startling and wonderful
manifestation of spirit-power, in order to compel a belief
in our existence. I have changed my views since then.
It is not positive, tangible, material proof that we need
most to give. I truly believe that the best work of
Spiritualism has not been done through its mediums—
certainly not through its professed mediums—but in
the general awakening of thought and liberalising of
religious views ; in the silent influence which we mingle
with your everyday thoughts. Therefore our object is
now, as we learn more and more in regard to our rela¬
tive positions, to do away with distinctive mediumship,
and especially with all forms of mechanical phenomena.
This may seem strange to you, but I assure you, if we
encouraged physical demonstrations as we might do,
the whole thing would degenerate into a species of
spiritual gymnastics, and a rivalry would grow up
among media, as to which had most power, and a low
class of spirits would be kept constantly at work about
every medium, trying new experiments and practising
new freaks and tricks, until there is no telling where
the impulse would lead to at last; but it is easy to
see in what direction it would tend. That is why
I stopped all experiments with the little girls, and
joined their good grandfather and guardian in bid¬
ding you educate them, and cultivate their intellects,
and develop their souls, that they might not degenerate
into mere puppets for the amusement of their friends,
but might rise to the dignity of true spiritual com¬
munion. I want to say a good deal to you on this
subject, to let you understand that we are not disap¬
pointed by the failure of those plans in which we be¬
lieved so earnestly then. I know it does not seem best
to you that our power and influence should continue
in its present uncertain state. But consider: any instru¬
ment, however accurate in its construction, if sensitive
enough to be controlled by our influence, would also be
affected by the spirit embodied in flesh which might
be nearest to it. And as will-power is hard to control
by distance, or by any material substance, how could
we guard our electrical or magnetic mechanism from the
currents ever ebbing and flowing about it ? We have
considered all these things.
The planchette was of our planning and guiding, yet
marvellous as were its actions, you see how unsatisfac¬
tory they were. No person ever was truly convinced of the
truth of spirit life and immortality merely by the plan¬
chette. Yet the planchette interested many people, and
was the indirect means to securing to many doubting
hearts such a faith and belief. Any machine we might
plan, with its positive and negative conditions, its com¬
bination of polarity and subtle answering to our dicta¬
tion, would, of course, be looked upon as a marvel—
almost a miracle, and would be held as absolute Spiritual
authority. But how soon we should fail to accomplish
what we wished then—the spiritual standard would
fall! No—no, my friend; each sphere is sufficient
unto itself, and yours is the material sphere, We will
only mingle enough with that materiality to draw you
one step higher, to show you that without any especial
manifestation, there is a divinity and a Spirituality
shining through all forms of matter, and to that divinity
we respond with whatever power we are able to con-r
trol. I do not say that there will not come a time
when we shall be able to communicate without mortal
contact. I only mean that while you are in that sphere
of uncertainty, of early growth and late development,
you must be patient to watch the natural unfolding,
strong in the spiritual consciousness that all tends to
the ultimate good. It would be folly for you to allow
a child to live seven years without the faintest know¬
ledge of reading, and then to say to that child, you
are old enough now to learn to read. Go into the
library and study until you have mastered the lan¬
guage. And so lock him up there among the books,
supply him with food, and leave him to learn to read.
In twenty years he would know no more than when
you closed the door upon him. He wants teachers.
Step by step his work must be attained. So the world
of spirits, far above and all about you, is that library
now. You are the children, who know only the alpha¬
bet as yet; and without the power of transposing that
alphabet to words, or of using the words to express
ideas, the alphabet within itself is useless.
But, if you study patiently, you shall yet become
like the learned man, who sits down in his library,
where every book is like a friend or companion to
him, and he needs no teacher.
So shall you mortals in time to come be able to enter
our sphere, and comprehend each for himself so much
as he is able to understand or desires to know of spirit-
life and spirit-power. I do not say that you in your
earth-life will do this, though you come very much
nearer to it than many men; but in the future we shall
reach that.
I have been trying some experiments as to how
much, and how far, we can influence mere metal or
wood. I find it depends almost entirely upon the force
we can throw upon or through the medium we influ¬
ence, and is reliable or unreliable as the natural ten¬
dency of that mind is truthful or prevaricatiug. Though
we seem to use some mediums mechanically, yet it is
simply impossible to separate the spirit from the frame
it dwells in, while it is going through that material
sphere.
Having given you a brief and broken outline of what
I think of past manifestations, let me tell you, my good
friend, that, in the future, the best work of Spiritualism
is not to be done by its regular and professed media,
but by the general uplifting, unfolding, and spiritual
58
April 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
growth of our people. The manifestations are like the
painted blocks by which children are amused and coaxed
to learn their letters, that they may thereby become
able to read; and all tangible demonstrations bear
exactly the same relation to true spiritual life that the
coloured blocks do to literature. Therefore be glad that
you have the real food, while so many have but the
husks to feed upon.
In closing, I will only say, try to accept me as I
present myself—a co-labourer with all good intentions,
and deeply interested in all progressive science.
B. Fbanklin.
Reports of
[When report* of the speeches of spirits are printed in this Journal, non-
Spiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body are wise or
foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same as spirits in the body. More¬
over, they are but individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of
a spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in time be possible to discover in what points
they agree, and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it dots not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
sequently their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this journal to report
facts, so we are in no way responsible for the religious, scientific, or any other
teachings given by individual spirits.']
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE BEST WAY TO SPB.EAB SPIBITUALISH.
At a social conversational meeting of the St. John’s As¬
sociation of Spiritualists, held on Thursday evening, March
17th, at St. John’s Hall, Clerkenwell, Mr. John Jones, of
Enmore Park, South Norwood, presided. There was a large
attendance.
The President said that he had been a Spiritualist now
for fifteen years, and that he was an advocate of Spiritualism
at the time when the subject was tabooed on all sides; now
it is getting a little more fashionable younger supporters
are coming forward, whilst older ones are getting a little in
the background, and it is right that it should be so. Within
the last twelve or eighteen months the victories of Spiritualism
have been numerous. The Dialectical Society, for instance,
a body of Materialists, was at the outset strongly opposed to
Spiritualism, but now he understood that the report which
they are about to bring out will admit the phenomena to be
true; but some of the members will not give in that the
manifestations are produced by spirits. The business of the
evening was to consider the best methods of promoting unity
among Spiritualists, and of spreading Spiritualism in ail
directions.
Mr. T. Shorter said that Spiritualism is a life to be lived,
and not a doctrine to be taught; it is a matter which has to
do with the daily life of every one of us. The best and
truest happiness comes from the exercise of the highest facul¬
ties of our nature, and he knew of no nobler and better work
than that association was formed to promote. (Applause.)
Spiritualism lets us know that our life in the future will not
depend upon any arbitrary fiat, but shows us how the life
that now is, influences the life that is to be, shows us how we
make our own heaven or our own hell, for we make our own
spiritual state, which is ever with us. Spiritualism makes us
feel that the present is not the whole of life, and that we
cannot escape the inevitable law of consequences. Wherever
we find a people immersed only in the race for wealth or
the gratification of personal ambition it is certain that the
decay of that nation is beginning ; but wherever the people
are raised above this, and draw their happiness from spiritual
sources, they lead a higher and nobler life, strengthening
their own nation and influencing for good the nations
around.
Mr. T. Weeks said that one method of promoting
Spiritualism which had worked very well in Huddersfield
was a plan adopted there by many leaders of semi-public
spirit circles, of learning the name and address of every per¬
son who visited the circle, and issuing tickets or cards to
those who would become permanent members. In this way
many new members were obtained, and the names and ad¬
dresses of other persons more or less interested in Spiritualism
were recorded.
Mr. C. Chant said that he had seen how a spiritual society
could be strengthened by all the members taking a strong in¬
terest in the welfare of each other, and consulting how to
restore any one of the members who chanced to be out of
health, bodily or spiritually. He had seen the good effects
springing from this line of action, and knew that individuals
had been improved by it; so it was no mere theory of his own,
but a positive certainty.
Mr. R. Steele said that eight years ago the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists mustered eleven persons, and these
dwindled down to three. Still they kept on. The society
broke up at Mr. Blackwell’s, where it first met, but he in¬
vited the members to his house, where seances had been held
every Sunday evening for the last seven years. Circles
should sit regularly, and outsiders should be invited to at¬
tend, in order to spread Spiritualism with more rapidity.
The President said that he had a few words to say about
spreading Spiritualism. There is one leading truth demon¬
strated by Spiritualism, namely, that the human spirit is to
live after the death of the body, but the greatest scientific and
intellectual minds in London at the present day do not believe
that fact, as his hearers knew. These leading minds incul-
* ate their thoughts upon their students, and both together
act somewhat powerfully upon the public press, so that many
intelligent, energetic men of considerable influence are ar¬
rayed—quite honestly, he admitted—against Spiritualism.
We, on the other hand, know with certainty that our fathers,
mothers, sisters, brothers, and loved ones still live, and that
although in the spirit world, they are frequently very
near to us. Spiritual human beings are, under God’s laws,
permitted to be guardian angels to their relatives and other
persons still in the flesh. This knowledge unravels many
difficulties presented by religion, so that when the storms of
life burst over us, and there is no earthly friend near, it
enables us to better bear our evil lot, and to look forward
with patience to the time when the storm shall clear away
and the sun come out once more. Well, now, we live in a
city containing three millions of inhabitants, who, in the
course of thirty years, upon an average, will all die and pass
away. If Spiritualism could only act upon this living mass
•of human beings it would create quite a revolution of thought,
cause happiness to replace sorrow in many a home, and in¬
duce many bad people to change the whole tenor of their
lives. He thought that the best way to spread Spiritualism
effectually was to keep silence about religious dogmas,
especially on public platforms. He held his own religious
opinions, as those present knew very well; doubtless, early
education had much to do with those opinions, as well as the
shape of his head. He knew all that very well, but he found
that the expression of those opinions put many at variance
with him while talking upon the subject of Spiritualism.
Therefore he resolved to keep silence upon those points, and
to advance only the one cardinal truth, “ Life after Death. ”
It had given him great pain to see creedism introduced upon
public platforms; he had heard his faith traduced till his
blood boiled, yet he kept silence. Let us sink these
creeds, and keep silence about them upon the platform;
let us keep to the one text of “spirit”—a theme which is
an ample one to dwell upon. Let Trinitarians, Unitarians, and
other denominational men keep their dogmas in their pockets;
he would follow their example, and when everybody follows
this plan, Unitarians, Trinitarians, Roman Catholics, and
followers of all the faiths of the world may unite upon the
one question of “ life after physical death.” Then, instead of
having one meeting like the present, they would have hundreds.
He thought that Spiritualists should hold meetings in every
postal district, and when they thus band together outsiders
will soon join the communities, until at last Spiritualism will
become a power in the State. The same course might be
adopted in every county. When the newspapers find out
that Spiritualism is a great power it will pay them to make
it more public than they do at present. (Laughter.) And
when once the press sets to work the good news will spread
rapidly all over the world. At present it does not pay the
newspapers to make the facts public. When Spiritualism has
found its way all over the globe then Hindoo, Christian,
Mussulman, and people of all religions whatsoever may shake
hands together.
Mr. James Burns said that he advocated free expression of
opinion from public platforms, and he thought that people
should not get angry with each other while listening to such
freedom of expression. Until man’s nature and destiny are
properly known it is impossible to legislate, educate, or to do
anything else properly. All those things taught by men who
get up “ Sunday Evening Meetings for the People” are all
moonshine as compared with the importance of the knowledge
imparted by Spiritualism that “ man is a spirit.” Spirits tell
us how they live, and that does away with all dogmas
respecting a future life. The facts of Spiritualism have existed
from all time, and Spiritualists are now collecting them to
enlighten man; very little Spiritualism has been handed down
from past generations, because our forefathers did not metho¬
dically investigate the facts, and have bequeathed to us little
else but weeds in the shape of dogmas, and those who have
gardens full of weeds cannot grow cabbages therein. We
know that around every man is “ the Divine,” and what more
does he want ? The present low state of the world is chiefly
due to the fact that hitherto man has always had his heel on
the neck of his brother. How would a field of corn grow if
every blade in it was continually telling ©very other blade
how to grow ? Let us grow how we like, and help each other
to grow in our own way. (Applause.) Spiritualism tends to
set man free, and to bring him into the presence of God.
Mr. T. Shorter said that it was only a dictate of common
sense to be as careful as possible about subjects which we are
not associated to promote. All people should express opinions
freely, but in time and in order, and not in such a way as to
cause mental ’pain; we should also put a guard upon our¬
selves, and not bring our own doctrinal opinions too forward.
Spiritualism was very suggestive upon such subjects, he ad¬
mitted, but a controversial spirit was much to be deprecated.
He thought that the work of spreading Spiritualism from the
platform might be supplemented by the distribution of tracts
judiciously selected. As to the word “dogma,” which had
been used by previous speakers, it is but a name for an “ ab¬
stract truth;” to say that “we will have no dogmas ” amounts
simply to saying that “we will have no truths.”
Mr. W. Barber advocated great charity one towards
another in matters of opinion. He had been much mixed up
with the religious world, and knew that taany a man holds
what is truth to him, and truth which he considers to be very
sacred, so that it gives him pain to hear hard expressions about
his faith. The dogmas impressed upon us in youth stick very
hard, in spite of better knowledge. He then called attention
to a tract written by a Mr. Rotherham, saying that Spiri¬
tualists have too much to do with “ familiar spirits,” and he
(Mr. Barber) thought that this question should be fairly investi¬
gated and not shirked. He was surprised at the moderation
of tone of orthodox people towards Spiritualism, and thought
that most of them have a lurking idea at the bottom of their
own hearts that Spiritualists are not so far wrong as they at
first supposed them to be.
Mr. W. Cresswell said that he had seen Mr. Rotherham’s
tract, and considered it to be a most unfair thing. The author
had to resort to an American version of the Scriptures to get
texts to quote against Spiritualism.
The President then said a few words, and closed by re¬
marking : The spirits once gave me this motto—“ Convert the
Churches,”—and, God giving me help, I’ll try.
The proceedings then closed.
In the course of the evening other subjects than that of
spreading Spiritualism were introduced. Mr. George Childs,
of Offord-road, Islington, told how he had had a likeness of
his little boy, who died several years ago, drawn for him by
the spirits, without the intervention of human hands. Another
drawing, purporting to be executed by John Leech, given in
the same way, had all the characteristics of the ordinary work
of that artist. Another speaker told how the spirit of a friend
appeared in his bedroom, and said that he had some¬
thing to tell him ; he at once jumped up, and the apparition
vanished. He then made inquiries about that friend, of whose
death he had not heard, and he learnt that he had been dead
about a month before the appearance of his spirit in his bed¬
room ; he also found out that some property left him by the
deceased had been appropriated by other persons, with whom
an action at law was now pending for the recovery of the same.
He gave the names and addresses of all parties concerned, but
did not wish them to be published.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
ME. BEATTIE’S CIRCLE—MOVEMENTS OF OBJECTS WITHOUT CONTACT WITH
HUMAN BEINQS—A TABLE SWIMMING IN THE AIE—MR. HOME IN BRISTOL.
Mr. John Beattie, of 2, Westbourne-place, Clifton,
Bristol, has favoured us with the following account of mani¬
festations recently observed at Clifton, in his presence, through
the mediumship of Mr. D. D. Home :—
The first stance I have to describe took place on March 27th,
1870. There were present, one lady, Mr. Home, and myself.
We were not expecting manifestations, although all seemed as
if a few spirit friends were near and desired to have com¬
munication with us. Mr. Home was reclining at length upon
a double-headed sofa at the back of the room, right opposite
the window; the lady was sitting beside the fire, next to the
window; I was seated, with my elbow on the corner of a
large dining-table, next to Mr. Home. We were talking
gently, while day was gradually closing into night. “ The
last streaks of day ” had disappeared, the room had a dull
quiet light in it from the street lamp, and a subdued fire—
just sufficient for us to dimly see each other. All was still;
for the churches were full of worshippers, and the streets
empty ; our room had the quiet air of a true Sabbath even¬
ing. The conversation was on spiritual subjects. The lady
was speaking of having been conscious of a spirit “ brush¬
ing ” past her while sitting in the room alone about two months
past. Just then we heard raps, such as are usually given as
the signal of spirits being present, and by the alphabet the
communication was given—“ It was I who did it, and will do
it again, Sacha Home.” Rappings were heard, and a figure
was seen beside me by Mr. Home, who said, “ It is now putting
its hand on the table.” At that moment the table was
violently and suddenly shaken, proving positively that a
being, and one of considerable power, too, was in the place
mentioned by Mr. Home. Here another communication was
given to the lady, 111 love you, and like to he near you; you
love truth." Mr. Home, who had never changed from his
position on the sofa, said he saw something like a dark cloud
floating above me ; then he exclaimed,It is falling !” About
two seconds afterwards the whole room was shaken as with a
great power, not a tremor, but shaken with large waves.
I must give a line of comment here. The reader must
observe that the movement followed in each case, proving
that what Mr. Home saw was some most substantial force,
under the control of intelligence, and not an illusion, as might
have been supposed had the vision only taken place.
After this we could hear individuals, as it were, “ trotting ”
about the room ; the lady saw stars of light playing about
Mr. Home’s breast. These I could not see. Shortly we saw
most distinctly a well-defined hand and arm gently lift the
anti-macassar from the opposite end of the sofa to that on
which Mr. Home was reclining, raise it up about three feet,
slowly carry it along, and lay it down upon his breast. Then
we heard some one moving his watch chain. The|lady and Mr.
Home both said they saw the hand that was doing so ; I could
not then see it.* Next Mr. Home said that a hand was laid
upon his lips ; I then could see so distinctly the profile of a
hand doing so, that I went and took hold of Mr. Home’s
hands at the time, and found them lying down on his body ;
we further could see the spirit hand remove the watch from
his pocket and place it in his own hand.
I took my seat, remarking that I wondered how such mani-
festations^occurred, when the communication was given by the
alphabet, “ We too wonder why we can do so little, and yet so
much" Here the fire]was stirred, and the room was well lighted.
I now put an accordion into Mr. Home’s hand, which he held
fully in our view, holding it by the negative end, while the
other end hung over his knee ; in a short time it gave forth
harmonious sounds, and questions were likewise answered
through it. We asked if a hymn tune could be played, when one
was at once given, and Mr. Home sang the hymn to the
beautiful accompaniment. On expressing our approval and
making a request it was repeated. By the alphabet it was
signalled that my mother and father were present. Here a
most pleasing conversation took place upon the states of
existence in the other world, the replies being in each case
eminently in favour of the Christian philosophy, after which
the dear friends left us.
The above narrative I send you not as useful against un¬
belief, but as a description of a quite unsought-for interview
between a lady, Mr. Home, myself, and a few of our
nearest friends from the other and the better side of the grave.
I have a strong desire to comment on the words, “ Sow little,
yet how much" but want of room prevents it.
Allow me to preface my further statement of facts with a
few remarks. A few months ago I was present at a seance
along with a remarkable old lady, one who, although she saw
the end of a century of her life not far off, was still as
full of mental vigour as when in the May-day of youth. Yet
there was this difference : in her younger days she looked
upon time to come with the eye of hope, and saw all aglow
with high possibilities ; now her mind seemed to live in the
past, and many of those possibilities had been realised. Children
and children’s children with her had lived, been nursed, seen
manhood, age, and passed away, leaving only in her heart
their empty places. Although positive evidence was given her
by Spiritualism that those who had gone still lived, and were
waiting to welcome her to their home, yet all seemed to fail in
removing her mind from the rails of a highly refined scepti¬
cism. At the time the manifestations seemed to puzzle and
bewilder her ; and when the finest chords of the heart were
touched her emotional part would say, “ It must be true,” but
her splendid intellect would not assent. She would exclaim,
“What is it?" Mr. Home said—“Ask who are they, not
what is it
When Mr. Home left she hoped to see him again, and
seemed highly attached to him. It was npt to be, at least on
this plane of being. A few weeks after he left us she fell
asleep to awake with her dear friends who had gone before.
About one month after she had passed away I was present at
a stance with her grandson, Captain Campbell, one lady, and
Mr. Home. After many physical manifestations which would
have been most difficult for the material philosopher with his
bundle of correlated forces to account for, the communica¬
tion was rapped out. *
“Iretract all I said; Spiritualism is true." (Here she
made known who she was.) In answer to a question as to
her employment, she answered, “ I am happy with the present
waiting for the absent; I still think it undignified for spirits
to communicate through tables and furniture, but we must do
the best we can, spirit or mortal.”
These statements are nothing in themselves, but as coming
from an individual newly introduced into a state that was
previously but vaguely hoped for, against the deductions of a
fine keen intellect, speak much for the identity of the spirit,
much more so, in my opinion, than if some fifty questions had
been answered relative to her family.
The next sea/nce was on the 30th off March last, myself,
Captain Campbell, Captain Jebb, one lady, and Mr. Home
being present. Much took place which I have not the power
to report. The manifestations were strong, but intermittent.
*' There are two ways of seeing hands and other ohjgcts formed by spirits.
In tie one ease the spirits form objects which can be felt and handled as
well as seen; in the other case one or more of the observers is spiritually
elevated for the time, so as to be able to see spiritual things. In the above
instance the change manifestly took place in the observers, since the objects
did not appear to all of them to be equally distinct.—Ed.
April 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
The spirits present were strange to one another. The medium,
when in the trance state, was confused, and could not see
distinctly. At the beginning raps were heard on the door and
in various parts of the room. Captain Jebb had given to
him many remarkable proofs of identity, from a brother who
passed away at Nice, and from a son who passed away at
Clifton. Mr. Home was then entranced, but from unknown
conditions could hot be used by the spirits (as is generally
the case) to reveal to us the messages of unseen friends, and
to tell us about the spiritual circumstances that then sur¬
rounded us. After he awoke from the trance some most beau¬
tiful music was played, sometimes when the instrument was
held by one end, and when no visible hand was touching its
keys. It was played upon in full light and in the view of us all.
The instrument was likewise carried from one to another. It
was brought across under the table and put in my hand; another
time it was lifted from the floor and laid upon my knee. At
this time the spirits repeatedly touched those present. Cap¬
tain Jebb was as many as ten times tapped and stroked in a
kindly way by his spirit son. In this life his son was a good
swimmer, and he asked his son if he liked to swim now that
he was in the spirit world. Directly the heavy dining-room
table, 4ft. lOin. square, floated from the ground and com¬
menced swimming in the air ; the motions were exactly right,
about 9in. of forward movement, then a receding one of
about Sin. These movements, which lasted about 15 seconds,
were perfectly elastic, and could not have been produced except
by a person who had studied the movements of swimming, and
at the same time had command of great physical strength or
force to liEt and move the table as above stated. _ A force of
not less than forty pounds was necessary. Captain Jebb was
then lifted with his chair, and turned half a circle round.
Mr. Home’s limbs were rendered as rigid as wood and lifted
from the ground, when he was pushed back from the table ;
at the same time a double sofa left the wall and came out to
meet him. Here the manifestations stopped.
I do not consider this report complete without adding that I
was presentat another seawce, where all seemed perfectlyharmo-
nious. Amongst those present were two prominent ministers,
both believers in the truths of Spiritualism, yet we had
scarcely any manifestations. We were two hours engaged in
the experiment, with comparatively no result, and I have
always observed that when such is the case Mr. Home is tired
and wearied at the end of the experiment. When the Spirit
friends are numerous and have the power to manifest them¬
selves with seeming ease he is never so exhausted as when all
seems to fail.
I would like to say a word to those beginning the inquiry,
but my communication is too long already; I will, therefore,
leave that for another time.
SEEING- MEDUTMSHIP—THOUGHT READING,
Ok Thursday evening, March 31st, at eight o’clock, a spirit
circle sat the house of Mr. T. Everitt, 26, Penton-street,
Pentonville, N., at which circle nine persons in all were
present. The medium was Mrs. Everitt.
The manifestations at the outset much resembled those
described in a report of another of Mrs. Everitt’s seances
published in the last number of this journal, only the physical
manifestations were weaker than on that occasion. A chapter
from the Bible was read at the request of the spirits, after
which they asked for music, and kept time to it by means of
raps and other noises. A chair standing by itself moved a
few inches now and then, and the large, heavy square table
moved occasionally. After a longer delay than usual the
spirits requested that the lights should be put out, and then
Mr. Jesse B. H. Shepard, who is not only a musical, but at
times a seeing medium, saw and described five or six spirits,
old and young, standing near the chair of the editor of an
old-established scientific newspaper, the said editor being one
of the sitters at the circle. Mr. Shepard was a stranger to
the editor, yet he described the spirits around him so accurately
and clearly that he recognised every one of them. One of the
spirits was a lady relative, who cried bitterly while standing
near him, because she at that time had no power to communi¬
cate a message to him in any way. Mrs. Burns, who is also a
seeing medium, saw the same spirits as Mr. Shepard. Then
the seeing mediums said that they saw the spirits bringing
spirit flowers, and instantly a light, cool wind, of no great
force, was felt by all the members of the circle, and the air
seemed laden with the perfumes from many flowers,
one scent, like that of the Lily of the Yalley, being specially
noticeable.
The spirit, John Watt, then made his voice heard, and he
said that he wished the members of the circle to go on talk¬
ing to keep him well furnished with their breath, which he
required to enable him to produce the voice. He shifted his
position several times, but when the voice strengthened it
came from over the centre of the large table, and half-way
between the table and the ceiling. In answer to a question,
he said that when questions are put to him he does not hear
the words as human beings in the body hear them, but that
when the speakers form their thoughts into words then he is
able to read them, because “ they enter his state.” Some
spirits, he said, can read thoughts nearer their source than he
can, and some further from their source than he can ; it all
depends upon the relationship of the spiritual states of the
mortal and the spirit.
Mb. James Burns was at this seance, so also was Mr. J. M.
Peebles, and the latter, being very unwell, was cured by the
spirits in the course of the evenin°\
MR. SWINTON’S CIRCLE—THE CONVERSION AND DEATH-BED OF A SPIRITUAL¬
IST—MESSAGES FROM A NEWLY-RELEASED SPIRIT—SPIRIT IDENTITY—
APPEARANCE OF A SPIRIT TO SURVIVING RELATIVES,—SOLID MATTER
RENDERED INVISIBLE.
A developing circle meets regularly at the house of Mr.
A. C. Swinton, 5, Cambridge-road, Kilburn, W. Table
motions, raps, and other of the ordinary manifestations have
already been obtained, but in a few weeks the circle will be
developed sufficiently to enable the spirits to speak with
audible voices, as well as to produce other of the more remark¬
able phenomena of Spiritualism.
Last week, on Tuesday evening, shortly before the circle
began to sit, it was suggested that the publication of the
details of the death of Mr. Shaw, a Spiritualist, and how he
communicated with his relatives soon after his departure from
earth-life, would serve the useful purpose of helping to demon¬
strate to the public how completely Spiritualism breaks down
the barriers of the grave. The friend and family of the late
Mr. Shaw were willing that this should be done, as it was to
serve a useful purpose. While the matter formed the subject
of conversation, Mr. Shaw himself gave a communication by
table motions, saying that he had no objection to the publica¬
tion of the facts in The Spiritualist, 11 and,” said the spirit,
“ make as complete an article as possible ; put in all the
details.”
The following particulars were then communicated to our
reporter by the spirit, Mr. C. W. Pearce, Miss Elmer, and Mr.
A. C. Swinton :—
“ On Sunday, October 17th, 1869, a spirit circle sat at the
house of Mr. A. C. Swinton, 5, Cambridge-road, Kilburn. The
members of the circle were Mr. A. C. Swinton, Miss E. Elmer,
Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Thomas Atkins, Mr. 0. W. Pearce, and
Mr. Robert Shaw. Mr. Robert Shaw then had no belief in a
future existence, but he desired to have such knowledge as
would demonstrate it to him. Mr. J. J. Morse and Mr. Pearce
sat at a table, and manifestations of the presence of spirit
friends were given. The name of the controlling spirit was
given as ‘ Frederick Pearce., He was asked whether he could
answer mental questions if put by Robert Shaw. He said
‘ No, but if Sham mould place his hands upon the table, that
he might thereby become en rapport with him, he mould try.'
Mr. Shaw placed his hands on the table for one minute and
then removed them, after which he took a seat on the opposite
side of the room to the medium. He then mentally requested
the controlling spirit to move the table up to a chiffonier and
rap five times against it, when, to his utter amazement, his
request was complied with. Other requests mentally made by
him were as satisfactorily answered. This threw light upon
the future of Robert Shaw, for existence out of the mortal
body was demonstrated to his satisfaction.
“ Towards the latter end of December last he was prostrated
by a severe attack of bronchitis. Whilst suffering, Mr. Morse
and Mr. Pearce paid another visit to Mr. Swinton, at whose
house Mr. Robert Shaw resided. During the evening a sitting
was held, Messrs. Morse and Pearce being at the table. There
were also present Mr. Swinton, Miss Elmer, and Mrs. Mary
Pearce. The presence of spirit friends being made known
the probable result of Mr. Shaw’s indisposition was asked,
whereupon Mr. Morse was controlled automatically, and wrote
in the French language, which language he does not under¬
stand in his normal state, that the result would be ‘ rapid death'
It must be stated that Mr. Morse had not seen Mr. Shaw, nor
was he conscious of the kind of disease from which he was
suffering. Immediately after the message was written the
circle was startled by a knocking at the door of the room.
Upon opening the door, Mrs. Shaw, the wife of Mr. Robert
Shaw, was found bathed in tears, and she entreated Mr.
Swinton to go to her husband, who she thought was dying.
He went, accompanied by Mr. Morse and Mr. Pearce, and
found Mr. Shaw gasping for breath. Here Mr. Morse was
again controlled, and caused to make powerful upward mes¬
meric passes over Mr. Shaw, from the small of the back to
the nape of the neck, which considerably relieved his pain.
Then he was left, and the sitting was resumed, when Mr.
Morse was again controlled, and made to write in the French
language, ‘ Go quickly for his doctor,' who, being summoned,
came with some medicine, saw the patient, and departed.
“ The interrupted sitting was then resumed once more. Mr.
Morse, in a semi-trance condition, stated the various phases the
disease would present ere Mr. Shaw failed to control his
physical body. The particulars were as follows :—If the elec¬
trical conditions of the atmosphere remain as they are at pre¬
sent, the physical dissolution mill be delayed about three days.
If the conditions change, and milder meather sets in, it mill
take place in tmo days. Ere the dissolution be accomplished,
he mill home four hours sleep, and upon amakening he mill
himself be conscious of his approaching departure. He mill
see and recognise those friends of his mho are mailing to wel¬
come his entrance into the spiritual state. This was on the
29th of December, and the patient had not slept previously
for nearly a week.
“ The weather changed, and during the 30th of December,
1869, he slept as foretold. Upon awaking he called his
wife to his side, and requested her to bring water and a
sponge, with which to bathe his left arm, ‘ For,’ said he, ‘ Dr.
Buchanan and two spirit friends mho are now making passes
over it desire you to do so to prevent paralysis! He then told
his wife he was going to leave her in physical presence,
whereupon she began to weep. He said, r Don't weep, I do
not intend to go away from you. I shall remain with you, and
communicate with you, even if 1 have to use a table to do so.'
He then, looking across the room, pointed to two chairs, in
which sat two friends, who, with Dr. Buchanan, awaited his
arrival in the spirit world. Shortly after this, leaning back
and closing his eyes, he said, ‘ It's all over,” and departed.
“ Five days after the decease Mr. Pearce met Mr. Morse
at 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C. Mr. Morse said
that he felt the presence and influence of Mr. Shaw, but that
the spirit could not get full control of him then. On the
evening of the same day Mr. Swinton held a sitting at his
house at Kilbum, at which he, Miss Elmer, Mrs. and Miss
Shaw, Mr. Morse, and Mr. Pearce were present. Messrs.
Pearce and Morse sat together. Mr. Morse was thrown into
a semi-trance condition by the spirit of Robert Shaw, who
said that ‘ he had seen his old body put into the ground that
afternoon.’ Mr. Swinton asked him where he could find his
account of work done by him on Mr. Swinton’s estate, of
which account he had no record. The spirit replied that
| his ability to control the medium mas as yet small, but at a
future time he mould give him the required information.’
“ About a fortnight after this, during which interval he had
communicated several times, Miss Elmer, Mrs. Shaw, and
Miss Shaw, sat together to receive the promised particulars
of work done by Mr. Shaw, which particulars were known to
himself alone. Having announced his presence, in reply to a
question asked by Mr. Swinton (who was in the room),
as to whether he was able to perform his promise, he sai d,
t. Yes,' and then he gave, by means of the alphabet and table
tilts, a detailed account of all the extra work done by him, not
included in his contract. These particulars, when examined
by Mr. Swinton, were found to be accurately stated, wherever
he could check the items.
“ At another time Mrs. Shaw, his wife, being impressed to
sit at the table, did so, when it was at once moved. She
asked, | Who moved it ? Her husband replied that ‘ he did.'
She said to him, ‘ Could you make yourself visible to me ? I
should so like to see you again.' He answered, ‘ Yes, I can,'
and immediately she saw him standing before her, as palpably
real and natural as he had ever done. This was in the dusk
of the evening, and the gas was alight in the room. He stood
before her for about ten minutes.
“ At another time, after retiring to bed, Mrs. Shaw had her
pillow drawn backwards and forwards several times, her
hair stroked, her cheeks patted, the bed clothes smoothed, all
of which was done by her husband, as he afterwards told her.
In these and many other ways he has cheered her so much
that she says that ‘ mere it not for his absence from her mortal
sight she should not be conscious of his departure! Nor has
she been the only one to whom he has been visible. His
daughter Eliza and a friend of the name of Knight have
each seen him several times. The affectionate interest which
he manifests in the everyday life of his wife, descending even
to minute observation of her actions, is illustrated by this cir¬
cumstance :—One afternoon Mrs. Shaw went out shopping.
Upon putting her hand into her pocket she found that she
had lost her purse. Retracing her steps, she mentioned her
loss to her daughter, who suggested the probability of her
having dropped it near the house, whereupon she went in that
direction to search ; but Miss . Shaw, thinking it likely that
her father might know what had become of it, went home,
sat at the table by herself, and inquired if he were present.
He made known his presence, and in reply to her question
said that ‘ the purse mas upstairs, in the bedroom, on the bed!
She went there, examined the bed and the room with care,
but could not find it. Thinking that she had misunderstood
him, she again put the question, and received the same reply.
She said, ‘ I not only looked on the bed, but felt on the bed, and
it mas not there! He said, ‘ Go and look again, you will be
able to see it now! She went again, and found it where he
said it was, and bringing it downstairs returned it to her
mother, who had just returned from her fruitless search out¬
side. When asked by his daughter where it was when she
first went upstairs to look for it, he said, ' In the place where
you found it, but I had enveloped it in an atmosphere opaque
to your sight!
“ Since then frequent communications have been obtained
from him by the entrancement of his own daughter, through
whom he has both written and spoken.”
The foregoing narrative, after it was written out, was de¬
clared by the spirit to be an accurate statement of the cir¬
cumstances as they occurred, and he said that the whole was
drawn up to his satisfaction.
The addresses not already given of the persons mentioned
in the foregoing narrative, are Mr. C. W. Pearce, 19, Hargwyne-
street, South Stockwell; Mrs. and Miss Shaw, 5, Cambridge-
terrace, Kilburn, W.; Mr. Thomas Atkins, Watford, Hertford¬
shire ; and Mr. J. J. Morse, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury.
The body of Mr. Shaw was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery.
MRS. OLIVE’S MEDIUMSHIP—CURIOUS STATEMENT ABOUT SLEEP AFTER
DEATH.
Last Tuesday evening, at a stance at the house of Mr.
John Olive, Warrington-crescent, Paddington, while Mrs.
Olive was in the trance state, a spirit, who seemed to be
somewhat bewildered by his position, spoke through her. He
said that he had just been told that he was dead, but did
not know what to make of it. He was drowned several years
ago whilst bathing off Bournemouth, in consequence of an
attack of cramp while in the sea. At that time he was not
thirty years of age. He had an uncle who was & chemist, and
if he were present he should much like to speak to him.
Afterwards the guardian spirit of the medium was asked-'
what the preceding manifestation meant. She said that in
this case of the violent disruption of body and spirit by sudden
death the spirit-body was liberated in such a bad nervous state
that the spirit friends of the individual kept him in s eep all
that time to facilitate their work of restoring him to the
proper condition. It was good for him, as his tendencies and
likings were all bound up in earthly things, that he should
first recover conciousness surrounded by material conditions.
When he saw the stoppered bottles near the medium it put
him in mind of his uncle the chemist, and he thought perhaps
he might be on the premises of the said uncle, so asked for
him.
THE SERVICES IN THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
THE DAY OF JUDGMENT—PUNISHMENT FOR WRONG DEEDS—THE DISCOVERY
OF THE CHICAGO WATER SUPPLY AND THE PLEASANTVILLE PETROLEUM
SPRINGS BY SPIRITS.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, United States’ Consul at Trebizond,
Turkey-in-Asia, lectured on Sunday evening last upon “ The
Day of Judgment; or, When, Where, and How are Men
Judged ?” Among the leading points he brought out were
the following :—There is to be no future general judgment at
the end of time. The dogma is unscriptural, unreasonable,
and declared to be false by communications from the spirit
world. Man he declared to be a moral actor and a respon¬
sible being, punishable for his vices, and rewardable for his
virtues. Inasmuch as the old prophet declared that “ all
God’s ways are judgments,” and as Jesus said in the 12th of
St. John’s Gospel, “ Now is the judgment of this world,’’ the
speaker considered every day to be a judgment day. Con¬
science was judge, reason was judge, justice was judge, and
punishment followed crime, as thunder the lightning’s flash.
Special providences he considered only as the mediations of
angels and spirits. He regarded “salvation” as a natural
soul-growth, and attainable in all worlds.
He said that the scales of justice being true and right, and
the laws of action and re-action balancing each other, the
thief virtually steals from himself, the swindler swindles him¬
self, and the deceiver deceives neither God nor nature, but
himself only.
He paid a high tribute to mediums and those Spiritualists
who were true to their principles in every condition of life.
He compared life to a book in which the young were writing
the preface, the aged the closing chapters. This book would
be spiritually opened to each in the spirit world. The affec¬
tions and memory would survive death, and progress be the
soul’s song for ever.
The hall was full, and the audience listened with marked at¬
tention. At aprevious Sunday evening lecture by Mr. Peebles in
the Cavendish rooms upon the phenomena of Spiritualism, he
referred to Mr. A. James, the American medium, and told
about his clairvoyant gifts, which have enabled him to discover
and trace subterranean water-courses and petroleum oil-wells.
Mr. Peebles said that while walking in a field a little distance
from Chicago, with Mr. George A. Shufeldt, jun., Mr, James
was suddenly entranced. The controlling spirit or intelligence
selected a point at which to bore for water, declaring that at
a certain depth there was a living crystal stream. A company
was organised, and the work commenced full of faith. The
water was reached, and at the precise spot the well is now
flowing 600,000 gallons per day of the best and purest water
in the world. This was the initiatory step. Mr. James sub-
sequently visited Pleasantville, Venango Co., Pa.’ Oct. 31st,
1866. At this time he was accompanied by Mr. C. P. Eaton,
Laona, N. Y., Mr. Geo. Porter, Fredonia,'N. Y., and Mr. Geo.
McBride, Sheridan Center, N.Y., all on their way to examine
some property a few miles south of Pleasantville, belonging
to two of the above-named gentlemen.
Seated in a buggy with Mr. Eaton, they had proceeded
but a little distance when Mr. James became violently in¬
fluenced by his attending spirit-guides. This invisible power
increased, till, Paul-like, he hardly knew whether he “ was in
the body or out.” The control soon becoming absolute, he
was taken over the fence into a lot on the east side the road,
moving rapidly, and his companions following. Nearly un¬
conscious, the locomotion seemed to him like gliding or sailing,
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1870.
and the last he distinctly remembers was being hurriedly
forced over the fence. Proceeding towards the south side,
then back and near the north end of the field, he moved more
cautiously, as though tracing some lode or vein. On reaching
a certain locality he was thrown heavily upon the ground,
and making a mark with his finger he thrust a penny some
inches into the earth. He then fell upon the bosom of the
earth, stiff, and apparently lifeless. His eyes were closed, the
face pale, the pulse feeble, and the limbs were as rigid as
in death. Messrs. Porter and McBride, unaccustomed to
witness this superior condition or trance-state, were frightened,
till assured by Mr. Eaton, a gentleman long familiar with the
spiritua1 phenomena, that there was not the least danger to be
apprehended. As Peter “fell into a trance,” as Paul, the
Apostles, and primitive Christians were frequently en¬
tranced, so trance is common in the ranks of Spiritualists.
After lying upon the surface of the earth, calm and pale, ap¬
parently at death’s door for some little time, he was partially
raised up by these unseen influences ; and then, controlled by
highly intelligent spirits, addressed those present. The in¬
telligences gave them to understand in language at once
pointed and positive, that they were then upon a superior oil-
producing territory, extending many miles in a certain direc¬
tion. That directly under their feet were flowing exceedingly
rich veins of petroleum. The spot was marked, though the
land was considered altogether too high for oil purposes.
Mr. James and the others announced, both in public and
private, that he had singled out oil territory under spirit
influence. On September 4th, while in Cleveland, Ohio,
attending the Fourth National Convention of Spiritualists, he
published 10,000 circulars, distributing a portion of them there,
and forwarded the remainder by mail to the most prominent
Spiritualists of the country from Maine to California. The
gist of the circular was that, controlled by a band of spirits
still interested in geological pursuits, he had located oil
wells on territory considered utterly worthless for this object.
They specified about the depth that the oil would be found,
and made other remarkable prophecies. A company was
oganized, the boring commenced, and the whole was crowned
with complete success, precisely as the spirits had foretold.
The discovery of oil wells under these remarkable circum¬
stances made a great sensation. The Nero York Tribune and
many other newspapers had much to say on the subject, but
the Pleasantville Morning Herald of February 1st, 1867, gives
all the additional particulars to those already stated. Its cor¬
respondent says:—
“ This morning, soon after breakfast, news spread like wild¬
fire among the staid denizens of this pleasant village that a
new well had just commenced producing oil. With many
others, we repaired to the scene, where, indeed, the so-called
Spiritual well, in the south part of the borough, was astonish¬
ing the throng with its production of oil. On inquiry, I
learned the oil was first produced from the well about nine
o’clock this morning, and near noon, when we saw it, was
more than fulfilling the expectations of its immediate friends.
It is claimed that this well was spiritually located by a cele¬
brated ‘medium,’ Mr. James. We were informed by Mr.
Farwell, of the firm of Farwell and Potter, who has put down
the well, that its depth is 835ft., that the last and fourth sand
rock was 18ft. thick, of which 15ft. was white sand, and the
last 3ft. was coarse and dark coloured. While many of the
more enthusiastic place a very high estimate upon its prospec¬
tive yield we think it prudent to say, having witnessed the
Nettleton wells here in their beginning (and now producing
in their third year), that it will give a daily product of fifteen
barrels of oil, and may be more. With this well as an
additional fact, there is no longer a doubt that this locality
is, and is to be in future, permanent producing oil territory.”
HALIFAX PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The Psychological Society at Halifax, Yorkshire, was formed
about six months ago for the purpose of seeking and advancing
spiritual truths. The president of the society is Mr. Henry
Ambler, Glen Berk's Hall, near Halifax; the vice-president is
Mr. John Culpar, Union-street, Halifax ; treasurer, Mr. John
Longbottom, Sowerby Bridge, near Halifax; secretary, Mr.
Henry Lord, New Bond-street, Halifax. The committee of
management numbers twelve persons. The district comprises
Halifax, Sowerby Bridge, and Brearley ; the society is now in
a flourishing condition, and has fifty members. The meeting-
room is at the Stan ary, and will seat about two hundred
persons. Services are held every Sunday afternoon and evening.
On Wednesday evenings there are readings, discussions, and
spiritual manifestations ; and these weekly meetings are open
to the public.
Private meetings for development of mediums are nu¬
merous ; there are six in Halifax, two in Sowerby Bridge, and
one at Brearley, all belonging to the society. Services in con¬
nection with the society are held at Breaxley and Sowerby
Bridge upon one or two Sundays in the month, and Spiritualism
is making great progress in Halifax and the neighbouring
towns. The funds of the society are not large, but are in a
satisfactory state. They are employed to help in sickness, and
distress, wherever such aid is needed, and much good has been
done in this way. Several persons who have been left to die,
and who havebeengiven up by the doctors, have been restored
to health by the aid of spirit power through the instrumenta¬
lity of one of the mediums (Mr. E, Wood).
Mr. Henry Lord, secretary to the Halifax Psychological
Society, who favoured us with the foregoing particulars, gives
also the following information about the mediums connected
with the society :—
“ Mr. Edward Wood, of Warley Clough, near Halifax, has
been a medium for nearly ten years; he has a very great
speaking power when influenced by the spirits of reformers
and others who have worked hard for the good of the nation
in their day and generation. They speak fluently through
him, although he is not an educated man ; he is a stone
mason by trade. The places at which he lectures are Halifax,
Sowerby-bridge, and Brearly.
“ Another medium connected with the society is Mr. John
Blackburn (who is blind), Bottom Salterhebble, near Halifax;
he has been a medium for more than ten years. The intelli¬
gences who speak through him explain the teachings of the
Bible, and it is surprising what good sermons come from him.
He has physical power also. Two splendid paintings were
given about a week ago through his mediumship, the time
occupied in doing them being seven minutes only. One re¬
presents fruit, and the other a nosegay or bouquet of flowers.
The pictures have been scrutinised by many, and they are
now at the house of Mr. James Nutton, Shaw-hill, Halifax,
who will be glad to show them to anyone interested. This
medium attends circles at Halifax, Bowling, and Shelf.
“ Mrs. Elizabeth A. Sagar, 48, Frederick-street, Wakefield-
road, Bradford, Yorkshire, has been a medium for about
twenty years. She has suffered much persecution, as her
friends and relations disown her because of her being a
Spiritualist. She has great healing and physical power, and
through her gifts she has been the means of winning a great
many over to the cause. Mr. Lord says, ‘ I have myself seen
a man with a gathering on the cheek, swelled as large as a
moderate-sized apple, and with her healing power the swelling
was reduced in twenty minutes level with the cheek. The
man was asked how he felt, and he said ‘Go on ; it is like
being in Heaven.’ He had had no rest for the previous week.
Greater physical manifestations have been performed through
the mediumship of Mrs. Sagar than any I have read about up
to the present time, but sickness has now begun, and her mor¬
tal frame is weak. She has been carried round her bed¬
room in mid air, and instruments have played in her presence
without contact with mortal hands. A violin has been carried
round the room in like manner, and her friends tell me that
if one half were printed that they have seen and heard under
the influence of her mediumship it would not be credited.
The following spirits who were doctors when in the flesh, are
nearly her constant companions:—Herbert H. Hanson, Randle,
Spark, E. Smart, Buchanan, and others. She has also the
gift of seeing and conversing with the spirits. I have heard
them speak to her with audible voices without the aid of a
mortal body, and a great many besides myself have heard the
same. The words could be distinctly heard and understood.
“Another medium and member of the society is Mr.
Thomas Tate, of Bradford, Yorkshire, joiner by trade. The
manifestations through this medium are all produced by the
spirits of foreigners. He has very great healing power. Some¬
times Indian, African, and Italian languages are spoken
through him, and some hours elapse after he has come out of
the trance state before he can speak the English language
properly.”
Some more mediums in connection with the Society are in
course of development. There are a few other mediums in
Halifax who do not belong to the Socieiy, and who have their
social gatherings at home.
In the middle of last month Mr. J. M. Peebles delivered six
or seven lectures in all, at Halifax, on behalf of the Psycho¬
logical Society. The attendance was thin at first, but before
he left he had crowded audiences, several hundreds of persons
being present.  
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE ORDNANCE SURVEY OP SINAI—PROTOPLASM—PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON
THE EVOLUTION THEORY.
On Friday evening, February 25th, Captain Wilson, R.E.,
gave a lecture at the Royal Institution on the “ Ordnance
Survey of Mount Sinai,” made by himself and Captain Palmer,
R.E. The result of this survey is, that Jebel Serbal, which
was thought to be Mount Sinai, does not answer to the de¬
scription of Sinai given in the Old Testament. If Jebel Serbal
were the mountain, the children of Israel must have assem¬
bled in two separate bodies, in two great valleys in the neigh¬
bourhood, from neither of which valleys could most of them
have seen the top of the mountain. But Jebel Musa answers
the description of Sinai, if it be assumed that the Israelites
were encamped in separate valleys, and were summoned in
separate detachments to the foot of the mountain ; the words
in the Old Testament will bear this interpretation of their
movements. There is no mountain there, with a plain in
front sufficiently large to accommodate the whole body of the
Israelites, and at the same time meet the other requirements
of the ancient record. The local traditions of the Bedouins
throw no light upon the subject, and are much coloured by
the legends of the monks, who at one time must have num¬
bered more than four thousand in the peninsula.
In a course of lectures on “Plant Life,” recently delivered
at the Royal Institution by Dr. Masters, F. L. S., he said that
all animals and vegetables are built up of cells, and that these
cells are filled with a colourless gummy substance called
“ protoplasm.” There is no difference whatever, such as the
chemist can detect, between the protoplasm of plants and
animals. It is also in some cases very difficult to distinguish
whether certain low organisms are animals or vegetables;
some vegetables have within certain limits the power of loco¬
motion. The amoeba, a little jelly-like lump which moves
about in water, is considered to be an animal because it has
the power of making a temporary stomach for itself, and of
assimilating solid food. No vegetable has a stomach, or can
assimilate solid food.
Last Friday night Professor Huxley delivered a lecture at
the Royal Institution, before a very large audience, upon
“ The Pedigree of the Horse.” Sir Henry Holland, Bart.,
F.R.S. presided. Mr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. and Mrs. C. F.
Yarley, as well as many other Spiritualists were present at
this lecture.
Professor Huxley began by saying that it is now ten years
since he had the honour of addressing a public audience on
the origin of species and the theory of evolution due to the
genius’of Charles Darwin. At that time the theory was
passing through the trial, through the struggle for existence,
which all youthful organisms in nature have to undergo. On
that occasion he succeeded so far in overcoming his natural
love for peace and quietness—(laughter)—as to advocate
what was then a repressed doctrine. Now all is changed.
The doctrine which then was regularly refuted and over¬
thrown once in every six weeks has since grown to such an
extent that it is now the leading doctrine of most of the
first scientific men in Europe, and he thought it would be
well to get up a little constitutional opposition to its tenets,
for now it entered even into the considerations of its ad¬
versaries. The rocks reveal to us transitional forms between
animals now existing and those long gone, and yield to the
philosopher fossils transitional between groups of animals now
far apart. He had one particular case to bring before them,
which he thought would stand any amount of worrying, and
tearing, and pulling about. The case in question was of
particular interest, because it concerned an animal of which
Englishmen were exceedingly proud, that is to say — the
horse. He was told that some among his listeners were on
the look-out. for what are called “tips” in his lecture—
(laughter)—but on tbis occasion he was going to treat the
subject in a thoroughly scientific way, and none other. All
animals and things which were very accurately and deli¬
cately balanced were apt to be very beautiful. On the same
principle the beauty of the body of the horse probably has
much to do with its being one of the best possible pieces of
apparatus for running swiftly along the land. In many
respects the organisation of the horse departed in an extra¬
ordinary way from what may be called “ the average quad¬
ruped,” and the peculiarities to which he desired to call special
attention were those of the fore limbs, the hind limbs, and the
teeth. What was called the “ knee ” of the horse was in
reality the wrist of the animal. Human beings had two bones
in the fore-arm, and this was also the case withmost quadrupeds
but in the horse these two bones were completly fused and
bound together into one. In most horses and asses the two
bones were soldered together, and the shaft of the ulna nearly
disappeared. The horse’s hoof answered to the fingers of
the human hand, only in the hoof some of the bones and
fingers of the hand were missing, and the horse in reality rests
upon the end of the nail of the middle finger. What has
become of the other fingers ? Two of them were taken away,
and two of the other bones were reduced to little splints, which
could not be seen from the outside of the horse’s hoof. This
peculiarity was found only in these animals. In the hind-legs
of the horse the small bone was reduced as in the fore-legs,
and the middle toe was there with its nail made into a hoof.
The horse had also a peculiar construction of the grinding
teeth of the upper and lower jaw, some portions of these teeth
being harder than other portions, so that each tooth wore un¬
equally in different parts, whereby it always had a rough
surface for grinding purposes, something like the face of a
millstone. The tooth was composed of ridges and pillars,
bone and cement, very curiously arranged with respect to each
other, and a set of such teeth made a very efficient mill for
the use of the horse. In a very young horse, that is to say,
in a horse a foot long, before it was born, there were the
remains of the ulna much more complete than in the grown
animal, and in the young horse the rudiments of the toes
were larger in proportion than in the adult. Sometimes horses
were born with extra toes, and there was a specimen of this
kind in the museum of the College of Surgeons. At the present
time also there was a South American pony in the Victoria
Docks with an extra toe to each hoof, and the toes could be
felt by the finger. If these facts were interpreted by the
doctrine of evolution, what did it say? It said that the
missing toes of the horse must have vanished from some
animal preceding the horse, which had the normal number
of toes, and that the ancestors of the horse must at one time
have had the leg and foot bones complete, although these
were blotted out before the horse was turned into a perfect
running machine. It also said that at one time the teeth of
the horse must have resembled those of other herbivorous
animals. It also said that the ycung or embyronic form often
resembled the common form, more than the adult animal did.
The extra toe in some cases was probably but a reversion to
the type of some remote ancestor, nevertheless, he did not lay
much stress upon this point himself. Now what did palaeont¬
ology say to all this ? The remains of the horse were found in
profusion all over Europe and Asia, and they existed in geo¬
logical strata of enormous antiquity. They could be traced
back to periods long before any indications of the existence
of man had as yet been found, yet the horses and asses of
that remote period resembled in nearly every respect the
horses and asses which now ran wild in many parts of Asia and
Africa. On going still further back to the upper miocene
period, a time when the world altogether differed from its
present condition as regarded its geographical features, the
horse was still found with all its present peculiarities, aud the
two differ from each other only in minute details. But side
by side with the remains of the horse in this deposit were the
remains of another horse-like creature, called the “ hipparion ”
or “ little horse.” As much was known about the hipparion as
about the horse. There was no break in the series of time,
for both are found in the same deposit. In the fore limb of
the hipparion, the leg bones were united, but the extra one
was traceable, and the leg bones were nearer to the average
type; the animal also had two little hoofs or fingers, one
on each side of the main hoof, but they appeared to have
been of no use whatever. The tooth was still very horsey,
but it was changed nearer to the ordinary type. There was,
therefore, in the upper miocene an animal which resembles
the horse in some particulars, and departs from it in others.
Professor Huxley continued—Did the horse succeed the hip¬
parion ? Was it conceivable that the one animal was struck
out of existence altogether, and that the other was then
created afresh out of nothing ? Was it thinkable ? If so, he
might as well give up his theory altogether. Having proceeded
thus far, the investigator turns with considerable confidence
to his geological remains to look for the hypothetical ancestor
of the hipparion. This ancestor was found in the anchithe-
rium, and its remains were found in the lower miocene, but
not in the upper as yet, so that there is a greater gap between
the anchitherium and the hipparion than between the latter
and the horse. In the anchitherium the leg bones are still
more separated; it has three toes in the fore limb, the two
outside ones being half as big as the middle toe, so that the
foot somewhat resembles that of the tapir. This animal,
therefore, has the fore foot which theory requires that it
should have. In the hind leg the bones are more divided
than in the case of the hipparion, the hinder feet have three
toes, and the teeth have not the plasticity of those of the
horse, but approach more nearly to those of the ordinary type.,
Thus in these three animals there are proofs of gradual pro¬
gression in teeth, hind legs, and fore legs, all the rest of the
organisation of each being horse-like. He submitted then
that it was impossible to obtain evidence more complete in
kind than this of the pedigree and origin of the horse. But
he wished to go a little farther, and look a “ over the edge of
certainty,” to get some idea of what is lying on the other side.
He then pointed out that in the eocene period there are re¬
mains of animals which are probably remote ancestors of .the
horse ; the plagiolophus minor to wit. This animal more ap¬
proaches the rodents in type, but it differs from the horse only
in degree, and not in kind. He concluded by remarking that if
Darwin’s doctrine is made out in this one case of the horse,
it is strong evidence that similar medications have taken place
in all cases.
Mbs. Habdinge’s Mediitmship.—Mrs. Hardinge is now
lecturing in Boston, United States, and she will be there for
the next three weeks. At Washington she drew very crowded
and fashionable audiences, and was besieged with visitors, in¬
cluding a great many members of Congress. She has accepted
engagements in different parts of the States which will detain
her there all through the autumn, so she cannot visit England
again till next winter at the earliest.
Mb. D. D. Home.—Mr. Home has during the past month
visited both Glasgow and Edinburgh, where his public read¬
ings and private seances all passed off with much popularity
and success. Mr. Home is a capital reader, and has the
power of keeping up the interest of the audience ; a hall of
large size, however, tells somewhat against his style of speak¬
ing, which in such cases should be rather slower and louder
to be clearly heard by all. These remarks are not applicable
to his mode of delivery in rooms of ordinary size. Mr.
Home, after leaving Scotland, visited Bristol and Malvern.
He is now in London, and last Monday took part with Mrs.
Dauncey Maskell in some dramatic readings at the Milton
Hall, Camden Town. There was a very good attendance.
He will give public readings at Hanover-square Rooms on
April 27, May 4, and May 11.
April 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
61
CgAKGES POE. ADTEETISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
11 displayed" so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion offour lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. Btjens, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W. C.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary worh of The Spieixtjalist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spieithalist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader' will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
Co Subsmba's.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. PauVs-churchyard, E.C. No notice
will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remit¬
tance.
THE PRINCIPLES OE SPIRITUALISM.
The great question “ "What do spirits teach ? ” is
one which, perhaps, no two Spiritualists will answer
alike. The fact is that the next world, like this, is
a wide and busy one, with little uniformity in it, and
uach medium is in communication with those spirits
who in some respects are allied to him in thought.
Dissimilar natures, with no one predilection in common,
do not attach themselyes to each other from the simple
-circumstance that they would derive no pleasure or
profit from such an unnatural union. It is just the
same with spirits in the body, for people utterly at
variance with each other do not generally associate
together. If an inhabitant of the Moon came for the
first time to the earth, and asked “ What do the inhabi¬
tants of this world teach ? ” he would not find much
uniformity in the replies, whether his questions related
to politics, religion, habits of life, customs, dress, or
any other subject. But if he questioned only those
spirits who were allied to himself in opinion, because
he was not sufficiently developed to wish for truth
from all sources, then he would receive replies which
would give him the most pleasure. Because of these
variations of thought among spirits the literature of
Spiritualism will be found to teem with an infinite
variety of spirit teachings, abounding, of course, in
discrepancies.
In this wofld there is no uniformity, and there never
will be, for a most tame and miserable place would it
be did everybody think alike; therefore that straining
after uniformity which has ever been a leading feature
of the theological world, is at variance with the laws
of nature and must fortunately be an utter failure, soon
to be numbered by men among the errors of the past.
But the hypothetical Man from the Moon, on ques¬
tioning people living upon different parts of the earth,
would soon find that they had a few things in common,
namely, two legs each, one nose, a head, language,
sensitiveness to pain, and so on. In like manner
there are a few general facts clearly established by
Spiritualism about the world beyond the grave. For
instance, as regards intelligence and goodness, no
change is made in the nature of a man when he parts
with his earthly body for ever. The ignorant and im¬
perfect man is ignorant and imperfect still. What an
enormous benefit Spiritualism will confer upon the
world when this one fact becomes a matter of abso¬
lute knowledge to every human being! Such know¬
ledge will give a great impetus to educational move¬
ments, and tend to overturn those evils which now
retard progress in this plane of existence. Men will
learn the necessity of perfecting the physical body, by
means of proper food, clothing, and training, in order
to facilitate the earlier development of a perfect mind
and spirit; they will, therefore, abolish those evils
which necessitate poorhouses and prisons. In a child
the physical body has first to be developed, then the
mental faculties enter more prominently into the life
of the individual, and lastly the spiritual faculties put
forth their buds and blossoms, just like the growth of
a flower. Just so far as man does anything to check
the perfect development of body, mind, or spirit will
he break the laws of nature and cause unhappiness, for
the breaking of such laws necessarily entails punish¬
ment. Another broad fact respecting which all
Spiritualists are tolerably well agreed is that the
state of man is one of eternal progression, and that
the popular doctrine of eternal punishment is unten¬
able ; even those who are strongly tied to popular
English orthodoxy for the most part concede the latter
point. Spirits also teach widely the necessity of cul¬
tivating the faculties of affection and love, and point
out that the best of introductions to the spirit world
is the power of looking back upon a well-spent life
upon earth. In the next world, as here, the true
measure of the value of an individual to the community
is his "use.” Swedenborg told how the angels are
happier in proportion to the increase in their useful¬
ness. Yery many years of research and experience
will have to pass away before we see the full fruit
of the teachings of Spiritualism. Doubtless Spirit¬
ualism resembles rain, sunlight, and all other bless¬
ings coming from the Almighty, in that it will do
good alike to all the dwellers upon earth, and not
to one man to the exclusion of some thousands of his
neighbours.
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION OF THOUGHT.
At a public meeting, a report of which is published in
another column, Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park, raised the
question whether it is not the wisest plan to beep entire
silence on the subject of theological creeds at public meetings
in connection with Spiritualism, in order to promote the rapid
spreading of the movement. Spiritualists hold all kind of
theological views, so do some of their spirit friends; hence
there is a tendency on the part of speakers to promulgate
their own opinions as the teachings of Spiritualism. Listeners
who hold theological opinions different from those of the
speakers are often not pleased with what they hear, and are
deterred from inquiring into the subject. Hence the remedy
of “ silence” has been suggested.
In the first place, the plan is impracticable. Among the
great mass of Spiritualists disseminated all over the United
Kingdom it is impossible to bind the tongues of so many
people, and to get them to agree to hide that which is in their
hearts. Even if all did agree to keep silence about creeds, the
public would of course rise at public meetings and put
questions on that subject, and then what would the gagged
speaker on the platform do ? There is no such thing as
uniformity in nature, and there never will be. No two blades
of grass were never made exactly alike, neither were any two
individuals. In the days of old, priests and popes tried to
secure uniformity by terrible persecution, and in later times
by political and social oppression; Mr. Jones wishes to secure
it by “ agreement. ” It is impossible, because it is unnatural,
and being unnatural, it is not good.
In the second place, concerted silence would do harm to the
Spiritual cause. A year or two ago, the cholera broke out
with considerable virulence at Llanelly, and to abate the
alarm, or for some other reason, the publication of accurate
returns of the real number of deaths per week was suppressed.
Consequently rumour multiplied the number of deaths by
twenty, and it was popularly supposed in many parts of
Wales that the chief feature of the town of Llanelly was the
number of coffins to be seen about the streets at all hours
of the day. Supposing universal silence on one particular
subject could be maintained among Spiritualists, the public
would raise rumours about our being a secret society, founded
on Jesuitical principles, established for very terrible purposes,
including machinations for the overthrow of the Church, the
State, and the Constitution, as well as other things which
result in filling the pockets of landowners, lawyers, and other
useful individuals, things which are consequently sacred, and
on no account to be examined by the reasoning powers of
common people.
In the third place, the plan would recognise the false princi¬
ple that it is right to fetter the free expression of honest
thought.
Without doubt there are plenty of people who get angry
when they have to listen to opinions at variance with their
own; but this is entirely due to defective education. If they
were properly educated, they would know that difference of
opinion adds to the general happiness of a community just as
difference of colour adds to the beauty of a garden of flowers.
When people quarrel with each other because they do not
think alike, it is a proof that they are not of a very high type,
and when one man tries to fetter the freedom of speech of his
neighbour, it is the mark of a tyrannical disposition, which
may perhaps be hereditary as containing too much of the
savage element, but which nevertheless may be eradicated by
proper education.
Why not tell the public that Spiritualism teaches affection
and love, that spirits are of different creeds and of no creed
at all, so that Spiritualists have agreed to be friendly and
not to quarrel with each other about theological notions, con¬
sequently that arrangements have been made for Mr. Peebles,
to lecture one evening, Mr. Shorter the next, Mr. John Jones
the next, to the same audience from the same platform, not¬
withstanding theological differences? A practical example
like this would be very refreshing to the public, who are
getting sick of creedal quarrels, and it would show them that
there is something unusually good in Spiritualism to produce
such fruit.
Though many may for the moment think this plan a wise
one, we have not the slightest faith that it will be practically
carried out to any great extent. In the present state of
national education, divisions and sects must spring up among
Spiritualists, in obedience to the same great unseen mental
and psychological laws which create divisions in all other
large bodies of people, and we are not prepared to say that
this separation will not do good. Each sect will drive its
own branch of Spiritual Theology with more force and rapidity
among outsiders harmonising somewhat with itself, than
would be the case if the whole body of Spiritualists worked
together under an agreement to wash all colour out of the
platform oratory. Spiritualism should train up individuals
who are not afraid to speak their opinions freely, and should
train up listeners who can hear honest opinions at variance
with their own without experiencing any increase in the
temperature of the blood. Whence arises that anger so often
felt by individuals when principles believed in by themselves
are attacked ? It arises from an innate dread that the said
principles are not strong enough in themselves to bear rigid
examination. Supposing every mortal man at a public meet¬
ing denounced as impossible the fact that the earth is a globe,
would that raise anger in the breast of the Astronomer Royal ?
Not a bit of it. Professor Airy would let them all shout till
they were hoarse and remain quite cool, because of his know¬
ledge that the truth must in time bring them to their senses.
Supposing, on the other hand, they attacked some pet theory
of his own, respecting the truth of which he himself had a
lurking doubt, then he might feel his blood beginning to
boil, because, in effect, the meeting Vould be publicly ques¬
tioning the value of his own judgment. Angry advocates are
usually allied to unsafe causes.
Of course the same principles of action at public meetings
which promote the interests of Spiritualism will have equal
or more force if adopted in Spiritualistic publications, yet, as
a matter of fact, none of the periodicals have been at all
neutral. The scientific tone of this journal pushes Spirit¬
ualism with more force into scientific and learned circles
than would be the case were no such engine at work.
When, after years of hard work, expense, and study, phi¬
lology digs a little absolute unquestionable knowledge out of
the mist and myths of past ages, demonstrating a little about
the creeds of pre-historic times, it does not create a favourable
impression among thinking people to know that the creedal
papers will altogether suppress or garble such discoveries.
Very few, if any, newspapers connected with the spiritual
interests of man would dare to let their readers know the
absolute evidence given at the Royal Institution by Professor
Max Muller, that the pre-historic Semites, from whom the
Jews, Babylonians, Arabs, and Ethiopians branched off, wor¬
shipped a plurality of gods and goddesses. Now, when the
scientific world knows perfectly well that the majority of
theological journals will most certainly hide such established
facts from their readers, of course it is a pleasing novelty to
them to find that some of the journals connected with Spiri¬
tualism do not fear the publication of truth. This illustrates
what has already been stated, that want of uniformity tends
to push Spiritualism more rapidly in particular directions
than would be the case were it possible to wash all theological
colour out of Spiritualism as presented to the public.
Probably all are agreed that Spiritualism teaches the cul¬
tivation of the perfection of the body, the mind, and tha
spirit, and the adoption of practical methods to surround
each of them with the most favourable conditions for perfect
growth. In such case those who publicly aid Spiritualism
should give attention to subjects relating to food, clothing,
housing, means of subsistence, education, science, reason,
affection, and that love which at present does not abound to
the extent it should do upon this earth.
These ideas are not put forward dietatorially, for there is no
doubt that the questions raised at the recent public meeting
by a Spiritualist much respected by all of us, require very
careful consideration from all points of view. The fettering
of liberty, unless some very great and sure advantage is to be
gained, is a very serious thing. To some extent also Mr.
Jones will gain his point, for there is no doubt that the know¬
ledge that some few earnest Spiritualists think it best to ab¬
stain from speaking about the relations of Spiritualism to
creeds of words, will tend to make those who do speak on the
relationship more temperate in their language than would
otherwise be the case. While correspondence about this re¬
lationship appears in this journal we will take care not to
give too much space to those who write in an angry or sar¬
castic spirit; but we do not feel justified at present in stop¬
ping a reasonable amount of expression of freedom of thought.
Mrs. Marshall’s Mediumship.—On inquiry at the
residence of Mrs. Mary Marshall we have been informed that
the rumour that she has given up paid mediumship is not
true, but that she is out of town for a week or two.
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1870.
^oetrg.
SPIRIT POETRY.
Thh following is an extract from a “Lyric of the Morning Land,” given
by spirits through the mediumship of Mr. T. L. Harris. The quotation we
make may be applied to objections often made to dark stances:—
“The spiritual ministry of night
Is all unknown. Day rules the sensuous min d;
But night the fettered spirit doth unbind,
And through the silver palace-gates of light,
In dream and trance she bears the soul away
To the wide landscape of the inner day.
****** **
The souls of men are wanderers while they sleep;
And life’s continuous current ever flows,
■Whether to outward bliss the pulses leap,
Or languid glide in silence and repose.
[********
The charmed islands of the Asteroids
Are nearer far than Oeylon or Cathay;
For angel hosts, who throng the seeming voids
Of visible space, the human heart survey,
And weave meanwhile such blessed spells, that they
Touch with their subtle sense the inner mind,
And all the fettered inner wings unbind,
Till we rise at their call.
Leaving Earth all behind,
And are borne to the hall,
Where the soul is refined
From the grossness of Earth, and made free as the mind.”
The following quotations from one of the poems given through the
mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten describe the death of the communicating
•pirit, and his entrance into the next/world:—
“ ’Twas the ominous month of October—
How the memories rise in my soul!
How they swell like a sea in my soul!
When a spirit, sad, silent, and sober,
Whose glance was a word of control,
Drew me down to the dark Lake Avemus,
In the desolate kingdom of Death—
To the mist-covered Lake of Avemus,
In the ghoul-haunted kingdom of Death.
“And there, as I shivered and waited,
I talked with the souls of the dead—
With those whom the living call dead;
The lawless, the lone, and the hated,
Who broke from their bondage and fled—
From madness and misery fled..
Each word was a burning eruption,
That leapt from a crater of flame—
A red lava-tide of corruption,
That out of life's sediment came,
From the scoriae nature God gave them,
Compounded of glory and shame.
“ It was there the Eumerides found us,
In sight of no shelter or shore—
No beacon or light from the shore:
They lashed up the white waves around us,
We sank in the water's wild roar;
But not to the regions infernal,
Through billows of sulphurous flame,
But unto the City Eternal,
The Home of the Blessed, we came.”
Arriving at the gate of the Beautiful City, one of the company, “ a proud
prelate,” addresses—
“ A beautiful, beautiful child,
A golden-haired, azure-eyed child,”
who is standing “in the midst of the mystical splendour,” and he claims to
be admitted to heaven by virtue of his sins having been forgiveu, and his soul
washed clean by the orthodox method:
“ The child stood in silence and wonder,
Then bowed down her beautiful head;
And even as fragrance is shed
From the lilacs the waves have swept under,
She meekly and tenderly said.
So simply and truthfully said:
‘ In vain do ye seek to behold Him;
He dwells in no temple apart;
The height of the heavens cannot hold Him,
And yet He is here in my heart—
He is here, and He will not depart.’
“ Then out from the mystical splendour,
The swift-changing, crystalline light,
The rainbow-hued, scintillant light,
Gleamed faces more touching and tender
Than ever had greeted our sight—
Our sun-blind, death-darkened sight;
And they sang: ‘ Welcome home to the kingdom.
Ye earth-born and serpent-beguiled!
The Lord is the light of this kingdom,
And His temple the heart of a child—
Of a trustful and teachable child;
Ye are bom to the life of the kingdom—
Receive and believe as a child.’ ”
(Eovvesponhence.
[ffrtat frttdora is givsn to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
THE BIBLE-STIRITCTALISM CONTROYERSY.
Sir,—The illuminated mind of the spiritual Swedenborg
enabled him to perceive that truth ought not to be accepted
as truth on authority ; but only because it is seen to be truth :
and with a calm confidence in the power of truth he gave his
philosophy to the world. Future ages will reveal how much
progress owes to Swedenborg’s majestic utterance.
The majority of my brethren, who desire to follow Christ,—
to live as He lived—and thus elevate themselves and their
fellows, deem it incumbent upon them to believe every state¬
ment they find in the Bible, because—it is in the Bible. Thus,
they stultify their own God-given power, reason; and deface
the glorious image of God—intelligence, in which they were
created.
What is the Bible that such implicit confidence should be
placed in it ? A selection by (Ecumenical Councils from the
writings of various reformers. And so unsatisfactory was the
decision of one council that another reversed it; which re¬
versal was altered by another, and this again by another and
another. Thus, what was, and what was not, the word of God,
was determined by a majority of votes. In the same manner
it was authoritatively decreed that Jesus Christ is God; the
Council of Nicse being convened for the especial purpose : this
is history as reliable and well authenticated as that of the life
and death of Jesus.
“ But,” my friends may say, “the inspiration of the writings
was not destroyed by the votes of the Councils.” True—
granting the inspiration—no vote of Council could add to or
take from it; but which manuscripts were to compose the
Bible was determined by the reasonableness of the reasons,
urged in their favour. And these reasons were the result of
the reason of the men urging them. Surely, we, men endowed
with reason at least equal to that which determined the
Scripture canon, may examine the selection of the Bishops of
the Church, and reject all that nature,—God’s unerring word
—and reason, show to be inconsistent with our highest con¬
ception of deity !
The “Thus saith the Lord,” of Moses, when the saying is
opposed to what we know of the divine attributes, is as little
binding on a true child of God as is the “ Thus saith the Lord ”
of Brigham Young. But a statement such as this, ‘ ‘ I, the
Lord thy God am a jealous (?) God .... visiting the sins of
the fathers upon the children, to the third and fourth genera¬
tion of them that hate (?) me,” is worthy of heed, because it
makes known the law of nature, inheritance, a better under¬
standing of which would help humanity to improve. Darwin,
on this subject—an authority equal to Moses, and revealing
more—says, “. . . . a child of ten re verts, in certain characters,
to its grandfather or grandmother, or other remote ancestors.
.... a peculiarity is often transmitted from one sex to both
sexes, or to one sex alone ; more commonly, but not exclu¬
sively to the like sex.” This is inspiration, alike in the “ Bible ”
and in the “ Origin of Species.”
I cordially agree with my valued friend, Edmund D. Rogers,
that the Bible is inspired ; but I also believe in the inspiration
of the reports of the Royal Institution meetings. I believe
likewise in the divinity of the Lord Jesus ; and equally so in
the divinity of allmanleind: but I do not believe in, and I pro¬
test in the sacred name of humanity, and “ of reason heaven
descended,” against the Nicaene Trinity— '
God the Father, Holy Ghost, and Son;
Mysterious Godhead! Three in one,
and the spiritual degradation which it fosters. Patience ! It
has within itself the seeds of its own downfall in its utter
absurdity.
My courteous opponent, J. G. Gerrans, reveals this absurdity
when he speaks of “rescuing a sinful world from its lost con¬
dition” by ‘ ‘ such a trifling operation as the impregnation of
the germ of a human being.”
This is done by the Creator to secure the “immaculate con¬
ception ” oi—— himself; He, thereby being enabled to live a
human life (without sin), and having done nothing worthy of
death, voluntarily dies ! ! Thus He is enabled, with justice,
to forgive, for His own sake, any sinner who, feeling himself
one, may desire forgiveness; such forgiveness securing to said
sinner his right to enter heaven after death. The only con¬
dition necessary to enable the forgiveness to take effect being
—faith.
He who “spake as never man spake’’did not so teach.
When asked what must be done to inherit eternal life (heaven
—happiness), said,—“Love God; love your neighbour: this do
and you shall live. ”
Eternal life in exchange for faith ? Never ! Love to God,
manifested by love to man, alone wins it.
“Salvation by faith ” tends to foster the animal selfishness
of human nature. Ministers of this religion, so called, stand
by the bedside of departing murderers, adulterers, whore¬
mongers, extortioners, and hypocrites, and, well knowing their
past lives, assure them, as God’s ambassadors, of a joyful
entrance into heaven if they will even now believe on the Lord
Jesus Christ. Whilst, on the other hand, a man whose life
and substance have been spent in doing good is told by the
same self-appointed ambassadors from heaven that his works
will “damn” him, and there will be no future happiness
unless he believe in the Nicaene Creed.
These teachings permeate society, and humanity, whose
early manifestations are always selfish, believing them, is en¬
couraged in its selfishness; because heaven can be won by any
cruel, callous, sensual, grey-headed sinner, who has “faith !”
and this religion—the outgrowth of creeds—is said to be taught
in the Bible. O, God, how long!
Spiritualism (as I understand it) does not recognise the
Nicsene Creed, nor partial inspiration, nor divinity in one man
only. It has no heaven for the believer, no hell for the
worker. It knows no devil but ignorance. It sees no evil
in any man, but much error—the result of ignorance. Its
saviour is wisdom, access to whom can be obtained only by
walking with experience, with whom all must walk. There¬
fore, Spiritualism joyfully looking forward to the time when
all by experience will know the Lord, gives “progress” as its
watchword, and inscribes on its banner of light “Excelsior.”
South Stockwell, April 7th, 1870. C. W. Pearce.
FOOD.
Sir,—A friend having sent me a copy of the seventh number
of The Spiritualist, my eye was caught by the following
sentence in a notice of The Food Journal: (fIt is a principle
in political economy, ‘the cheaper the food the lower the
wages of the population,’ therefore it is to the money interest
of capitalists that the bulk of the people shall be supplied
with cheap rather than pure food.” Now, Sir, I have been
for more than thirty years a diligent student of economic
science, and I hereby declare that, except from advocates of
the abolished com laws, I never have heard of this alleged
“principle in political economy.”* I am further prepared to
maintain that it is the very reverse of the truth. It is, indeed,
the interest of the capitalist, as of the whole community, that
food should be cheap, because, the dearer food is the smaller
is the fund for the purchase of all other articles whatsoever ;
but it is also to the interest of the capitalist that “the bulk
of the people should be supplied with fjure food,” were it only
that they may have health and strength to do the work for
which they receive wages. I abstain from further comment
upon your interpretation of a spience with which I have not
hitherto imagined that “Spiritualism” is at all concerned.
W. B. Hodgson, LL.D.,
Emeritus Examiner in the London University.
March 18th, 1870.
[The foot-note shows that four of the greatest English political economists
hold opinions other than those of our correspondent about the principle—
“ The cheaper the food the lower the wages of the population.”
Mr. Hodgson says that he denies the principle, hut he perhaps meant to
say that he admits it in full, hut questions the conclusion we drew from the
principle, namely—“that it is to the interest of the capitalist that the food
of labourers should be cheap rather than pure.’! : In the foregoing letter he
* “The money price of labour is necessarily regulated by two circum¬
stances : the demand for labour and the price of the conveniences and
necessaries of life Though the money price of labour, therefore, is
sometimes high where the price of provisions is low it would be still higher,
the demand continuing the same, if the price of provisions was high.”—Dr.
Adam Smith's “ Wealth of Nations."
“ A rise in the price of raw produce may not be followed by a rise of
wages, yet, speaking generally, the one is always consequent to the other.
The cost of food is the main regulator of wages.”—J. R. M’ Culloch.
“Another opinion often maintained is that wages (meaning of course
money wages) vary with the price of food; rising when it rises, and falling
when it falls. This opinion is, I conceive, only partially true Dear¬
ness or cheapness of food, when of a permanent character, and capable of
being calculated upon beforehand, may affect wages.”—John Stuart Mill.
“ The food of a labourer has a powerful influence over that part of the
rate of wages which is relative to his maintenance. If his customary food
is costly, his wages will be proportionate, in so far as they designate the
amount necessary to his subsistence.”—James B. Therold Rogers, M.A., late
Professor of Political Economy at Oxford University.
admits this to be a disputed point, in which case, as it is a matter of much
public interest, it had better be well sifted in the columns ®f the Food Journal.
When a spirit is disembodied no change takes place in its intellectual
powers, and good pure food to produce a good pure body aids in the pro¬
duction of a properly developed mind. The spirit body also is produced by
natural processes from the earthly body. To grow a rose to perfection it is
necessary to attend to the growth of the stem, and to the quality of mould
round the roots, and not to the development of the bud alone. If Spiritualism
taught us to neglect our bodies and our duties on this plane of existence, in
the fancy that such neglect prepares us better for the next plane of existence,
it would be little better than’ the teachings which it is about to supplant.
We cannot give Mr. Hodgson the knowledge he requires in a short note like
this, so refer him to text books on the subject.—Ed.~\
THE SYMBOLICAL LANGUAGE OF SPIRITS.
Sir,—After reading Mrs. De Morgan’s valuable book, From
Matter to Spirit, I was muck perplexed by her somewhat mys¬
tical assertions that the language of spirits is symbolical, and
that when they speak of “flowers,” “bells,” and other objects,
they do not mean what they say, but mean “ truth,” “purity,”
or something which, by a great stretch of the imagination,
may be supposed to be indicated in some obscure way, by the
thing they name.
Once I asked John King whether he meant what he said,
when he talked about his paper-tube and other things, or
whether his language were symbolical. He said that it was
not symbolical, and that he talks to us as we talk to each
other. On the other hand, I once put the same question to
the spirits who were communicating through the trance-
mediumship of the Rev. J. Murray Spear, and they replied
that their utterances as they reached us were very symbolical,
and but imperfect representations of what they wished to say.
If anybody can give information on this subject, I think it
one from which it is necessary to clear away all mystery as
soon as possible.
April 13th, 1870. X.
TRANSMISSION OF MESSAGES BY SPIRITS.
Mr. Thomas Eyeritt, of 26, Penton-street, Pentonville, is
in the habit of keeping a diary in which he notes down at the
time the more important manifestations and communications
received through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt. In that
diary he recorded at the time how, on December 8th, 1868, at
a stance at which he, Mrs. Everitt, Miss Dixon, of Moorgate-
street, Mrs. Emma Hardinge, and others were present, the
latter lady, who is a good seeing medium, said, “ There is a
coloured person here who has been wishing me for some time
to tell you he is from your friend, Mr. Meers.” Mr. Meers,
with his wife and family, were at that time at sea on their way
to New Zealand. Mrs. Hardinge said that the spirit before
her was “ the lowest and blackest sort of savage she ever saw,
but good at heart.” Mrs. Everitt was then entranced, and the
spirits by direct writing, without the intervention of mortal
hands, wrote with a pencil, “ Your friend has been ill. They
have had bad weather, and will have more, but you will have
a direct messagefrom him ; he was at the conference last night
but only one person saw him.” Mrs. Everitt afterwards said
that at the meeting at Gower-street on the previous evening
she thought she saw the spirit or “ double ” of Mr. Meers, but
was not quite sure as to its being him. The spirits also wrote,
“ His wife has been ill, but she is getting better ; they are
going fifteen knots an hour. Put down the time and date.”
The dark spirit then gave the name of “ Zambia,” and said to
Mrs. Hardinge, “ Send a message to him and I will take it.”
A message of love and good wishes was sent, and Zambia
said, “ He thanks you but you will have a direct message from
him.” Mrs. Hardinge and Mrs. Everitt then both saw Mr.
Meers, and received a short message from him, containing,
however, nothing but generalities.
At another seance held January 7th, 1869, the spirits wrote
through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, “ Your friend has been
very ill since you last heard from him ; he is better now. His
wife is well, so are the children. They have had rough
weather, but soon will be in calm water, and you will very
likely hear from him.”
So much for what took place in England. Mr. Everitt, of
course, like all other Spiritualists, knew the unreliability and
want of precision incidental to many spirit messages, so he
wrote to Mr. Meers the particulars above stated and inquired
into the accuracy of the statements. Now it so happened
that Mr. Meers also kept a diary while on board ship, and in
his reply to Mr. Everitt in a letter dated October 28th, 1869,
Rosina Cottage, Graham-street, Dunedin, he gives the follow¬
ing verbatim extract from his diary written on board ship :—;
December 8th, 9th, and 10th.—On the first two days I was unable to
write, owing to the roughness of the wind and ocean, a heavy gale blowing
almost without ceasing. My wife as bad as ever; myself worn out and di¬
spirited. This morning, the 10th, the wind still against us, and the sea very
heavy. Annie as bad as yesterday, the children better. Last Tuesday
night [December 8th, 1868] saw a black spirit named Zambia.
When Zambia appeared, Mr. Meers, who is a medium, went
into the trance state, and Mrs. Meers says that a great deal of
talking then went on between him and Zambia, but she for¬
gets now what it was all about; that Mr. Meers remarked that
Zambia seemed to be of the same tribe as some black spirits
he had once seen with Mrs. Hardinge, one of whom she called,
he thought, by the name of “ Arrowhead.” Mr. Meers, when
in his normal condition, like most other trance mediums, con¬
scious clairvoyants excepted, remembers nothing he sees, says,
or does while in the abnormal state. Mr. Meers then, in his
letter, gave also the following “ abbreviated ” extract from
his diary:—
On the 11th less wind and sea, and I wrote some poetry on the improve¬
ment. On the 12th a most terrific gale. On the 13th a heavy gale and
frightful sea; poor Annie and all the children as bad as ever. On the 14th,
15th, and 16th could not write yesterday or the day before; there is now a
heavy sea and adverse winds. Annie no better. When will things im¬
prove ? God only knows. Saw Zambia again yesterday; he said if he had
a black skin he had a white heart.
Then he gives another verbatim extract from the diary :—
January 6th.—Annie very unwell; fresh breeze and very hot. Saw the
spirit Zambia; he wanted to communicate, but I could not take the idea of
[from] him.
Such are the particulars which Mr. Everitt has forwarded to
usj and the main fact is that “ a black spirit named Zambia ”
appeared and gave his name to certain persons in London, and
to other persons at sea somewhere between England and New
Zealand. Also that the circle in London received informa¬
tion about the weather the ship was encountering, and about
the condition of some of the people on board. This is a case
in which the ship’s log might also be called in to give evi¬
dence.
The vessel in which Mr. Meers left England, started from
the East India Docks, November 20th, 1868, and her name,
Mr. Eyeritt thinks, was the “ Queen,” or the “ Ocean Queen.”
Thus at the time of Zambia’s appearance, the ship was about
eighteen days’ sail from land.
April 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF “ REVIVALS.”
Accounts of what are called “ revivals ” are too
numerous and too well attested to be destitute of any
real foundation, and these abnormal psychological out¬
breaks may be explained without much difficulty.
When a professional mesmeriser, or biologist, wishes
to bring the susceptible persons in a public audience
under bis control, be first of all has great strength of
will, which qualifies him for the work. He tells the
audience imperatively that be has the power of obtain¬
ing control over some of them; next the lights are
somewhat lowered, slow music of some kind is intro¬
duced ; then he makes “passes” with an outward move¬
ment of his hands and arms, followed by an in¬
ward movement of those members, as if drawing
the observers towards him by invisible cords.
Soon, a glassy stare is visible in the eyes of
those in the audience who have the most “ negative ”
dispositions ; he fixes his own eagle eyes more especi¬
ally upon these, and the sensitives, after making one
or two incipient starts, rush through all obstacles to
the platform. In fifteen or twenty minutes he may
thus bring a dozen or two persons upon the platform,
and he has the “ wills ” of all these sensitives more or
less under his control. Then he makes them perform
various antics, if the taste of the spectators be not of a
high order, or he makes rational experiments if those
present appreciate such a course ; in fact, the auditory
is usually the great governing power influencing the
character of the “ entertainment.” When he has
finished with his sensitives he flaps them over the face
with a handkerchief, adds a little stamping with the
feet, if the subject be difficult to arouse, and orders him
to “ wake up,” which is equivalent to saying, “ I give
you your will back again.”
How or why he is able to exercise such powers over
another, neither he nor.’anybody else knows at present.
The facts stand, and that is enough for our present
purpose.
The Revivalist preacher is always a very earnest
man, with strong will-power. The people who are
present at his ministrations, having heard of the results
of his previous labours, attend under the impression
that a mysterious power is working upon them, and
the earnest words of the speaker, supported at
intervals by the solemn music of the hymns, furnish
nearly all the conditions necessary to bring the most
negative minds present under his control. A news¬
paper reporter, a matter-of-fact individual not likely
to be led astray by imagination, tells us that he once
out of curiosity attended one of the revival meetings
which broke out several years ago, at the Wesleyan
Chapel, Merthyr. Hot only did he find at work all the
conditions we have stated, but, to use his own words,
“ the gas was half-mast high, and the scene was very
impressive.” Here, then, was the favourable condition
of subdued light superadded. The glassy stare, as well
as tears, came into the eyes of some of the sensitives,
whilst respectable men, completely under the influence,
rose from their seats and walked up and down the aisles
singing or praying. One of them sang that his “ feet
were in the miry clay.”
The Revivalist preacher is, in fact, a powerful biologist,
though he may not know it himself, and if, while the
! subjects are under his influence, he imperiously ex¬
claimed “See, the angels of heaven are descending
through the roof! ” the most sensitive of his patients
would see them so descending, just as a biologist can
tell his subjects that they see a flight of pigeons,
whereupon they fancy that they do see them, so set
up a melodious whistling.
Some of the sensitives upon the platform of the
biologist are less under his control than others, and
even in the scene at Merthyr, of which we have spoken,
a positive mind present felt that “ the scene was very
impressive.” We all more or less are subject to the
effects of mesmeric influences, and those who blindly
or implicitly follow the guidance of any political leader,
preacher, or newspaper, have minds of too negative a
character to perform the best work for their own present
or future welfare. We take it that every living person
should be an individual, and not a part of somebody
else; that independence of thought and action should
govern every living soul as much as possible, for those
who search their own spirits will receive higher and
purer teachings from the Master of Spirits than they
can get from any external source. The bodily, mental,
or spiritual food which best suits any one individual
is not the best for any other, there being no uniformity
in nature. When men look within instead of without
themselves for guidance, the motive power ruling their
acts will be of a higher nature than is derivable from
any other source. While searching for this independ¬
ence, of course the limit set up by nature will at last be
reached, and, in spite of all, we shall find that as
gregarious animals, we must still depend much upon
each other for the perfection of the general happiness.
Judoe Edmonds is ill, and confined to his bed with a
lingering complaint, but his mind is as active as ever, and he
still writes on the subject of Spiritualism.
Sptdtttta TiTgivr IN Australia.—A copy of The Australa¬
sian, an influential Melbourne newspaper, has been forwarded
to us, and it contains a whole page devoted to the subject of Spiri¬
tualism. ThecopjisdatedDecember 25th, 1869. The writer gives
a very fair and impartial description of Spiritualism and its
teachings, and among other things he says:—“As was to be
expected, during the years it has been progressing Spiritualism
has met in the United States with vehement opposition and
criticism. Works have been published by writers of consider¬
able repute, attempting to refute its philosophy, and occasion¬
ally travelling mediums have been detected in the practice of
imposture and trickery. The fact, however, which arrests our
attention is that, in spite of searching investigation and
severe criticism, Spiritualism is advancing with evident
rapidity, and bids fair, before the lapse of many years, to be¬
come the dominant religion of the country. ... It ought
to be recognised that Spiritualism, whatever may be thought
of the marvellous hypothesis upon which its philosophy rests,
is calculated to exercise on mankind an elevating and not a
debasing influence. Admitting, for illustration sake, its
astounding premises, that it is the mission of that modern
miracle-worker—magnetism [mesmerism?]—to bridge over
the gulf that has separated the mundane from the spiritual
spheres, and that this junction is to be regarded as natural,
not supernatural, its teachings partake of the very essence of
Christian morality. Its scheme of ethics is, in fact, naked,
uncreedal Christianity. It culls from all religions of the past
and present their best and loveliest principles, and seeks to
bring them into harmony with the latest developments of
science. It is this which doubtless has caused it to fascinate
so many noble intellects among our American brethren.”
Dr. J. R. Newton.—Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Ber¬
nard Villas, Upper Norwood, has favoured us with the follow¬
ing extract from an article of his which he states will be pub¬
lished in the next number of the Spiritual Magaaine: —“ In a
second letter which I have just received from the eminent
healer, Dr. Newton, he announces his intention of leaving
America for England on the 27th of April, and he may there¬
fore be expected in London before the middle of May. This
excellent Christian philanthropist informs me that he intends
to remain in England for a year, and that his powers will be
devoted to healing, without fee or reward of any kind, all
sufferers who may seek his aid. I am told by a correspondent
that Dr. Newton has not only acted on this principle for some
time past (during which period he has made many miraculous
cures) but that he has also dispensed a large amount in charity
amongst his afflicted brethren. Such single-minded and un¬
selfish devotion to the cause of suffering humanity commands
our highest respect. And as I am sure it will be agreeable to
the feelings of a large portion of the Spiritualists of England
to meet Dr. Newton as soon after his arrival as may be con¬
venient to him, I shall make arrangements forthwith to give
the worthy Doctor a public reception, to be held at the
Assembly Rooms, Harley-street. For this purpose I solicit
subscriptions to defray the necessary expenses, and shall give
priority in the distribution of cards of admission, to the
extent of the accommodation at my disposal, to those whose
names I may receive, and in the order in which they may be
sent to me. The surplus I propose, with the sanction of the
subscribers, to contribute to the support of Mr. James Burns’s
Institution, Southampton-row, and, if in my power, to aid any
other Spiritual movement which may require assistance.”
Photographing the “ Double.”—A correspondent has
been kind enough to send us from Glasgow some voluminous
documents recording some experiments made in private a few
years ago to obtain genuine spirit photographs. As permis¬
sion to publish the names and addresses of the witnesses is
not given us, the statements will necessarily carry less weight
than would otherwise be the case. The experiments were
made in 1864, and caused some discussion in the Glasgow
newspapers. Instead of obtaining photographs of spirits, a
photograph of the “ double ” of the medium was obtained.
The medium, it is stated, was asked by the spirits to stand
in one position in front of the camera, which he did for several
minutes, and then went into the dark room to prepare the
sensitive plate. The piece of glass used was new, and had
never had any picture upon it before. The plate was then
exposed by the medium, who stood behind the camera, and a
picture was obtained with a phantom image of himself, stand¬
ing halfway between the camera and the background, in the
position actually occupied by him before the plate was sensitised.
Afterwards, at “ circle,” long communications were made,
trying to explain how the picture was produced. One of the
spirits said that one of the necessary conditions was that the
chemicals on the plate should be well saturated by the unseen
emanations from the medium, which, however, are real
enough to spirits, and to them seemed to produce a viscidity
of the chemicals. Then, when the spirit image falls upon the
surface “ cohesion ” takes place, and in the development silver
is rapidly deposited on this superstructure. After the medium
removed from before the camera it was asserted that he left
emanations having his own external shape behind him, and
this was the cause of his likeness in particular being photo¬
graphed. Of course all. this must be received with consider¬
able caution, the chain of evidence being incomplete, and we
only publish these statements for future reference, because
they may be useful hereafter in tending to confirm or contra¬
dict other communications on the subject. We have the
name and address of the gentleman who owns the documents,
so that they will doubtless be obtainable should further infor¬
mation from other sources prove their contents to be of value.
Within the past month we have received such well-authenti¬
cated evidence of the reality of spirit photographs that little
doubt remains that such manifestations must be included among
the powers developed in the mediums of modern times, and
that the theory of imposture is untenable. Very much better
“ ghost ” pictures can be produced artificially by photographers
than those produced by genuine manifestations; the latter
pictures differ entirely from the former in character.
New Spiritual Periodicals.—An announcement has
been made that Daylrrealt will in future be published weekly,
under the new name of The Medium. There is not room for
a weekly supply of news of good quality in connection with
Spiritualism at present, except at a very considerable loss of
labour and capital, so that the step just mentioned is of a very
enterprising character. Mr. Hudson Tuttle, one of the most
clear-headed, scientific Spiritualists in the United States, and
the editor of the American Spiritualist, is, in connection
with Mr. J. M. Peebles, about to publish a Spiritualist's
Annual, which is intended to be a handbook of Spiritualism
throughout the world. It is intended to contain statistical
matter relating to spiritual books, periodicals, mediums,
seances, lectures, trance-speakers, and organizations, together
with approximate estimates of the number of Spiritualists in
all parts of the world. The first number will be out in the
autumn of 1870, and Mr. Peebles desires information intended
for this annual to be sent to him at once at 15, Southampton-
row, High Holborn, London, W.O. A new and cheap periodical
in connection with The Spiritualist will be published in a
few months’ time, in order to give a quicker supply of news
than at present; the copyright has been secured under the
name of The Spiritual News. The new Australian journal on
Spiritualism, The Glowworm, already shows signs of weak¬
ness, as it contains intimations that subscriptions to support
it would be acceptable. We think this line of procedure
false in principle.
Mr. Frank Herne gave up paid mediumship more than
six months ago, and does not now sit for manifestations for
the public.
As the 15th of May falls upon a Sunday, the next number
of The Spiritualist will be published on the preceding
Saturday. Most of our new subscribers buy up the back
numbers of the journal, so that if the demand for them con¬
tinues as at present, they will all be sold off long before the
present volume is completed. It is therefore necessary to
repeat the caution to present subscribers, to get the back
numbers they want at once and preserve them, for in a few
months they will be out of print.
Baboo Keshub Chunder Sen.—This gentleman, who is
leader of the “Brahmo-Somaj,” or “Worshippers of one God,”
in India, is now working as a missionary in London, and he
will preach next Sunday morning at South-place Chapel,
Finsbury. The service will begin at 11T5 a.m., and will be
conducted by Mr, Moncure D. Conway.
Mr. Morse’s Mediumship.—The Friday evening seances
under the trance mediumship of Mr. Morse, still take place
weekly at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C., and they
are well attended. There will be no meeting there to-night.
Next Thursday evening Mr. Morse will deliver a lecture
under inspirational influence before the St. John’s Association
of Spiritualists.
Conference at the Cavendish Rooms.—Last Sunday
some Spiritualists and investigators of the phenomena of
Spiritualism met in these rooms at three o’clock, to canvass
the merits of the following proposition : “Resolved that
Spiritualism is superior to any form of religious organisation
in the world.” Mr. Peebles opened the conference in an ad¬
dress of twenty minutes’ duration; others followed, and for
the most part agreed with the first speaker in the general
tenor of his remarks; some differed however. There were
twice as many persons present at this conference as upon the
previous Sunday, and although there were differences of
opinion, general harmony and good feeling prevailed. These
Sunday conferences are to be continued.
The Dialectical Society.—One of the best physical
manifestations witnessed by five or six members of the Dia¬
lectical Society at the same time, was the free motion of a great
heavy table, in a good light, with nobody touching it, and all
the persons in the room kneeling on chairs, so that their feet
and legs were off the ground and all their hands in sight.
No professional medium was present. The medium was a
highly intelligent lady, the wife of the most determined op¬
ponent of the Spiritual theory upon the investigating com¬
mittee. During the past four weeks the committee of the
Dialectical Society has held two or three meetings with
closed doors, but the members have not yet agreed as to the
contents of the report which they will issue.
Mr. Shepard’s Mediumship.—Mr. Jesse B. Shepard,
the musical medium, whose advent in London was noticed in
our last, is giving Wednesday evening concerts at 15, South¬
ampton-row, Holborn. His playing is very fine and Mrs. C.
Berry has tested the spiritual origin of his playing, to the ex¬
tent of proving that it is better when he and the piano are in
pitch darkness instead of in the light. Still, what he does
might be done by very skilful persons, without the aid of in¬
visible friends, so this form of his mediumship is not of a con¬
vincing character to outsiders. As he is a genuine medium,
we see no reason to doubt his statement that he personally
knows nothing about music. His seeing mediumship is at
times largely developed, and in another column will be found
a narrative of how he described half a dozen or so of the
spirit relatives of a gentleman who was a stranger to him.
This was done so accurately that all the spirits were recog¬
nised, so Mr. Shepard came off with flying colours. We
think him to be a good medium, with powers more fitted to
be brought before experienced Spiritualists than before out¬
siders who surround sensitive media with unfavourable con¬
ditions.
Spiritual Research.—^Notwithstanding the vastness of
the field of inquiry there are certain facts in Spiritualism
which almost anyone can with care and patience establish.
1st. That those who have died, so far as the flesh and blood
body is concerned, do still exist, and can under certain con¬
ditions make known to those still in the earthly body that
they live and retain their identity and individuality. 2nd.
That the next stage of our existence is one of progress—rapid
with those who have been kindly natured and active here, and
who act up to the law promulgated by Confucius 2,300 years
ago, and adopted by every great subsequent lawgiver, namely,
“ Do you unto another what you would that that other should
do unto you.” Progress is slow with those who have been
brutal, slanderous, and guilty of high crimes causing great
suffering, such, for instance, as that imperfectly expressed by
the phrase “ sharp practice.” 3rd. It further seems to he
beyond doubt that in man’s next stage of existence he is unable
to conceal his true nature, his body in that state being formed
of what was his memory in this fife. The whole of his acts
and thoughts while on earth are constantly before himself and
his neighbours so long as the consequences of those acts and
thoughts remain in action.—Varley.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T. (Bloomsbury).—What force your letter contains is diluted over
too large an area, and much of your communication would be un¬
interesting to new subscribers, unless the letter by Mr. Gerrans
were reprinted by its side to show the points at issue.
A. B. T. (Lower Norwood).—Your letter presses as severely upon
Mr. Gerrans personally as it does upon his arguments, therefore
we can only publish it on condition that you add to it your name
and address. People on both sides have a natural tendency to
get angry over this Bible-Spiritualism controversy ; hitherto, the
letters have been reasonable and friendly, so we recommend you
not to introduce sarcasm into the discussion. If the letters begin
to assume a bitter tone, people may mistake this for a theological
instead of a scientific journal. Had not you and other corre¬
spondents better turn yourattention to the new question, whether
it is judicious to discuss this subject publicly ?
A. B. (Stoke Newington).—We are obliged to you for your unasked
subscription towards the expenses of this new newspaper, but on
principle cannot accept the same. The amount shall be returned to
you, or papers to the value of the remmittance be sent you, as you
may decide.
64
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 15, 1870
PACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
*o extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Bach individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
gained that denial is impossible.
SVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM; DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
•tronglyin favour of Mr Homs. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.E.G.S., M.E.I.:—
“ I, OromweU Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
& possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
•xperimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the ‘'occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and ohservers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“ Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. VARLHT
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un-
faid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
'rench, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred B. 'Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-cresceut,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.O.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says :—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, tilings called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be ehosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—by-
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas"
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Olifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
HOW TO RORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
thattherewill .be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
penoils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
f. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltlngs or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
Bitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get "them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
The good but not expensive
CLOTHING ESTABLISHMENT.
T. EVEBITT & SON,
26, PENTON-STEEET, PENTONVILLE, N.,
Desire to call attention to their new and well-selected
stock of SPEING AND SUMMEB FABBICS.
Fancy Trousers from 14s. 6d.; Black Doeskins from
16s. 6d. (all wool); Frock or Dress Coat from from the
woaded fast-coloured cloth, £2 2s.
Style, Fit, and Workmanship guaranteed.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STEAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Betail.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Becent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. Jambs Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.O.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITOBY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Beading-Boom supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Boom for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Booms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Blanchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Beform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism" and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-rowi
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, Jambs Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W\C..
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. Jambs Burns, 15
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
MR. J. L. OLIVE, Professor of Modern
Spiritual Science, 1; Gibson-place, Warrington-
crescent, Maida Vale, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
information relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Beliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Beligion.” Edited by
the Bev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemosterrrow. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Bawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
“THE NEWSPAPEB PBESS ’’—THE PEESS OEGAN
THIS JOURNAL is the adopted and re¬
cognised Bepresentative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Beporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers.
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post free, payable in ad¬
vance.
London: E. W. Allkn, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons:
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Bight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer :
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 17IAldersgate*street, E.Oj
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers :
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
■of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to laddies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies^
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
JLv ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability^ it;
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected.for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allbn, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Contents.
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’sjFamily. Part V. .. 57
The Relative Value of Spiritual Manifestations ... 57
Reports op Meetings:—John's Association of
Spiritualists  68
Private Stances.—Mr. Beattie’s Circle—Movements of
Objects without contact with Human Beings—A
Table Swimming in the Air—Mr. Home in Bristol 58
Seeing Mediumship—Thought Beading   59
Mr. Swinton’s Circle—The Conversion and Death¬
bed of a Spiritualist—Messages from a Newly-
released Spirit—Spirit Identity—Appaarance of a
Spirit to Surviving Relatives—Solid Matter Ren¬
dered Invisible       59
Mrs. Olive’s Mediumsbip—Curious Statement about
Sleep after Death ...     59
The Services in the Cavendish Rooms.—The Day of
Judgment—Punishment for Wrong Deeds—The
Discovery of the Chicago Water Supply and the
Pleasantville Petroleum Springs by spirits. ... ’59
Halifax Psychological Society ... ...    60
The Royal Institution.— The Ordnance Survey of
Sinai — Protoplasm — Professor Huxley on the
Evolution Theory ... »■. ...    ... 60
Leader :—The Principles of Spiritualism   61
Freedom of Expression of Thought   61-
Poetry:—Spu-itPoetry  ... ... 62
Correspondence:—The Bible Spiritualism Con¬
troversy—The Symbolical Language of Spirits—
Food ... ... ...    "... 62
Transmission of Messages by Spirits ... • ... ... 62
The Psychology of “Revivals’’...   03
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Hardinge’s Mediumship, 60;
Mr. D. D. Home, 60; Mrs. Marshall’s Mediumship, ,
61; Spiritualism in Australia, 63; , Dr. J. B.
Newton, 63; Photographing the “ Double,” 63; ’
New Spiritual Periodicals, 63; Baboo Keshub
Chunder Sen, 63; Mr. Morse’s Mediumship, 63;
Conference at the Cavendish Booms, 63'; The
Dialectical Society, 63; Mr. Shepard's Medium-
ship, 63; Spiritual Besearch, 63.
Answers to Correspondents ... ...■   
Printed for the Proprietor by James Bbtbridgb, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St' George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
