PR0QRE£3 OF the
3CIEJMCE /ND ETHJCjS OF
[REGISTERED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 35.—(Vol. IL, No. 7.)
LONDON: MONDAY, JULY 15, 1872.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Pourpence.
FUTURE MO YEMENIS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Or the many methods of promoting the spread of
Spiritualism, perhaps one of the best would be to make
all meetings connected with the movement rich in good
educational | information, such as the majority of the
listeners did not know before, and to take care that the
said knowledge is imparted in a pleasing, nay, in an
entertaining manner. All our meetings should he so
good that the outside public shall be knocking at the
door asking admittance, instead of having Spiritualism
forced upon them by commonplace preaching at noisy
meetings. Unlike other religious bodies. Spiritualists
are not in the slightest, degree afraid of the progress of
science, for the tables have already been most effec¬
tually turned in more senses than one, and men of
science are so thoroughly afraid of Spiritualism that,
like Nicodemus of old, they usually inquire into it
privately and secretly, then lock up what knowledge
they gain within their own breasts. But if they are
afraid of Spiritualism, it is no reason why we should
not, unlike other religious bodies, openly receive and
teach all the established truths of science, wherefore
we think that the first spiritual institution which may
be established in London should be a fountain-head of
the highest philosophy of all kinds, and very similar in
many respects to the Royal Institution.
Such is the lamentable state of education of the
general public, thanks to the interference of theologians
with the teaching in schools, that the great majority
know scarcely .anything of the many valuable and in¬
teresting discoveries made during the present century
by those most ardent and reverent students of the laws
and works of God—the. men of science. Their dis¬
coveries in one branch alone, namely, in that of the
action of the invisible forces at work in the physical
wurld, are of the utmost value to Spiritualists, and.
Spiritualism tends to spread more rapidly among those
of the public who are practically conversant with thq
v 1-ofi the said 'fi^ees,.. - wgp» an ignorapt man, that
^jp@Wf^^*r9«me1®^g^e^aes ''wifehf by :^esme7iic’
action, will relieve the pain of another person over
' whom “passes” may be made, and, as a rule, he will
reject the idea with contempt. "Why ? He sees nothing
coming from his fingers, consequently, knows that,
nothing does come from his fingers, so he will have
nothing to do with the visionary who imparts the in¬
formation. What a valuable power in Spiritualism it
would be, if we could take persons of this order of mind
to our proposed institution, and show them by experi¬
ment that most of the rays coming from the sun are
invisible; that these invisible rays can be filtered away
from those which the eye can see, and, further, that
some of the said invisible rays can make iron red hot,
whilst others can explode a bulb filled with chlorine
and hydrogen. This lesson might be supplemented by
multitudes of others, demonstrating to all present what
practical effects can be produced by imponderable in¬
visible forces. The man who witnesses the fact that
something perfectly invisible to the eye may be sent
across a room, and made to cause an explosion, has
thereby induced in him a mental state which makes
him more ready to receive the knowledge that something
invisible to him, perpetually streams out of the ends of
his fingers. Further, he might be taken into the dark
room of the institution, made for the multiplication and
verification of previous experiments on odic or psychic
force, and there be enabled to see for himself conclusive
evidence that an aura proceeds from the human body.
To Spiritualists who already acknowledge these truths
the educational value of such an institution will, never¬
theless, be very great; it will teach much that ought to
be taught in schools, and lead- the .listeners at the
lectures into philosophical habits of thought.
The time may not be far off when five or six such in¬
stitutions may be erected in London, so as to be within
very easy reach of the residences of those who attend
the meetings, but if we had one to begin with, and con¬
centrated all our energies upon it to make it perfect,
distance of residence from it would not be of much im¬
portance, railway communication throughout London
being so good. Metropolitan locomotion is now so rapid
as to raise the question whether it is desirable to build
■our first institution in town at all, or whether it would
not be better to build it a few miles out in the midst of
trees and flowers, near some railway which gives rapid
and cheap communication with the city.
A public building in which God’s physical as well as
moral and spiritual laws have to be discovered and
taught, should contain a theatre lighted only from the
roof, with the necessary appliances to shut out the
light, to place the audience in darkness whenever de¬
sired for the performance of particular experiments.
The observers should all be on raised benches, looking
down on the lecturer and his apparatus, so as to see
clearly what he is doing. The oxy-hydrogen lime
light should be constantly at command in the theatre,
which should also be supplied with an oxy-hydrogen
microscope, and all the necessary optical appliances for
projecting pictures and other things upon the screen,
since this is one of the most entertaining methods of
conveying information. A good stock of philosophical
apparatus of all kinds should belong permanently to
the establishment, and be increased from time to time,
as funds permit, and as new discoveries in science
demand. A good organ, also, should be provided, for
use at some of those meetings which deal with other
subjects than physics.
If some of the oldest and best workers in the
movement, in whom Spiritualists have confidence, were
to form themselves into a committee to carry out a
project like this, so as to give security to the contribu¬
tors that the funds would not be wasted, but invested
in an undertaking of a useful and permanent nature,
we think that there would not be much difficulty in
raising the money required, so much liberality having
been displayed on other occasions. Nor, if the institu¬
tion were erected, would there be much difficulty in
finding men to do the teaching. Exclusive of the well-
known men of science and learning connected with the
movement, who would give occasional lectures if they
would not accept a permanent appointment, there are
many gentlemen of ability, efiucated in science, who
have passed with high university honours; some of
these, if they had the opportunity to follow their inclin¬
ations, would, we think, -bo very glad to throw their
energies ii^ the work of supporting Spiritualism. If
there were to be one br-more permanent lecturers on the
establishment,' they .shoilkL be" appointed f ter^' "slowly
and c’autiously; plenty of men have the requisite know¬
ledge, but many qualifications are necessary to make a
good, instructive, entertaining lecturer and experi¬
mentalist.
If these ideas meet general approval, what could be
done at once, or at the beginning of next winter, when
people are returning to town ? If a good stock of ap¬
paratus were bought, and kept under lock and key
when not in use, in a public building temporarily en¬
gaged for lecturing purposes one day in the week, there
are not a few Spiritualists in London competent to
begin the work of showing the large amount of know¬
ledge which philosophers already possess of many of the
invisible forces of nature^ , There are others who can
teach what the learned world already knows of the
origin of religions and religious customs, and can prove,
by the aid of drawings and statistics, the firmness of
the evidence; uninformed unorthodox people often
talk much trash on these subjects, not in the least reli¬
able. There are other Spiritualists, who can lecture on
the higher teachings of Spiritualism, and deal with the
religious and social aspects of the subject.
Much in the shape of proselytising has been done in
Spiritualism, but we should like to see the movement
systematically strengthened within faster than it spreads
without. This may be done by building up a well-
deserved reputation, to the effect that better teachings
and more knowledge than anywhere else, can always be
obtained at the meetings of Spiritualists. Also, that if
men of science are afraid of Spiritualism, Spiritualists
are hot at all afraid of them, but will always welcome
them, and listen without the slightest prejudice to any
truths whatever they may have to teach, on the under¬
standing that they are to prove everything they state as
they proceed with their discourses, and leave nothing to
be accepted on authority. The Royal Society and Dr.
Carpenter have recently proved conclusively what their
authority is worth.
Articles by Mr. Beattie on spirit photography in Bristol
have been published in recent numbers of the British Journal
of Photography and Photographic News.
Spirit Photographs.—At the moment of going to press
Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park, has informed us that he is
getting spirit photographs in his own house at South Norwood,
with no stranger present. One of the pictures contains
“ doubles ” of some of the sitters, impossible to be accounted
for by accidental shifting of the camera, the attitudes and
positions being altogether different, and he states that the
glass plate employed had never been used before.
SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPHY.
No. II. '
We now purpose to consider a difficulty which has
beset many thoughtful English Spiritualists, who have
had long and varied practical experience in the mani¬
festations, namely, the rarity of the occasions on which
they have received absolute proof at seances, of the per¬
sonal identity of deceased friends whom they knew
intimately in earth-life. There are not a few
Spiritualists who, after working through the many
elementary difficulties of the subject, admit that disem¬
bodied spirits are at the root of the manifestations, but
question their personal identity. Perhaps the conside¬
ration of a few physical facts will help to give clear
ideas respecting a probable solution of the difficulty.
Suppose a pendulum, consisting of an ivory billiard
ball suspended from the ceiling by means of a string,
be made to swing over a distance of twelve inches, to
and from the face of the reader of these lines. If he
blow the ball every time it begins to recede from his
lips, a succession of such small puffs of wind will
accelerate the swing of the ball, and soon make it tra¬
verse several feet at each swing instead of twelve inches.
The puffs will play harmoniously upon the movements
of the ball.
If, on the other hand, he blow against the ball when¬
ever it is approaching his lips, such puffs will soon bring
it to a standstill altogether, because of their being timed
so as to play inharmoniously upon the ball.
If a motionless pendulum be suspended against a
wall, and another pendulum of exactly the same length
and make be suspended in a state of vibration against
the same wall, it will, after a time, set the first one
going. One clock has been known to set another clock
going in this way. The reason is that the accumula¬
tion of small impulses, conveyed through the wall and
the aii;.vfrqm. one pendulunn to the other, starts the
motionless one gradunlfy^into .a BwingV" But if one
'pe&dulnffiTbe in -the slightesUSegfee longer or different
frorfi the other, the experiment will fail. .
Something like this may be seen! in mediuinship.
Spirits are limited in their experiments by mental con¬
ditions, just as physical philosophers are firmly, ijound
in their experiments by physical conditions. There are
mental states which to manifesting spirits may be as
unyielding to their influence as iron bars are to a
prisoner in Newgate.
Just as one pendulum in a clockmaker’s shop, or in a
great public establishment, might not be able to find
another pendulum on the premises or in half the build¬
ings, in London, which it could set swinging in conse¬
quence of its being in physical harmony with itself,
even so a.disembodied spirit might not be able to find a
medium among the few we have, in England, in exact
spiritual and mental harmony with itself, and the more
the communicating spirit differs in spiritual nature from
the medium, the more does the medium suffer from the
attempts of the spirit to communicate. When the
spirit has found a suitable medium, the earthly friend
may not be there to receive the message, or inharmoni¬
ous persons present in the circle may prevent its trans¬
mission, or there may be a score or two spirits present,
all waiting to send messages and interfering with each
other.
Let any Spiritualist who particularly wishes for clear
messages from a deceased friend think of all the
mediums he knows, and weigh well, the question
whether any one of those mediums is a person of nearly
the same spiritual and mental nature as the deceased
friend. If not, why blame spirits or , Spiritualism
because spiritual laws are not broken, the said laws
being analogous to others in the realm of physics, hold¬
ing the physical philosopher unyieldingly in their
grasp ?
It is a very common thing at circles for a spirit who
has proved his identity, to tell his friend that,, he. had
tried to communicate dozens of times before and failed,
because he could not get the proper conditions. Also,
that sometimes he had sent messages, which had to be
transmitted between several spirits before reaching the
medium, and when they finally reached the outer world
were so changed as to be worthless. Many spirit mes¬
sages of this kind, narrating failures of attempts to
communicate, have during past years been printed in
the Banner of Light.
An incident may be quoted as one. example of how
what may be called “ synchronous mental states ”
affect the manifestations. A few evenings ago, we
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1872.
were present when a spirit, who has relatives living in
Brixton, communicated through the trance-mediumship
of Mrs. Bird, 98, Lothian-road, S.E. He said that he
was not happy; he wished that some of his friends
were present, as in a short time he should not be able
to communicate through the medium. He was asked
“ Why ? ” His reply was to this effect—raj The medium
is anxious to-night; I am in the same state of mind in
that and other respects, whereby a link is established
between us, enabling me to get near her temporarily.”
All this was stated without solicitation; no “ leading
question,” as the lawyers call it, was put. In Spiritu¬
alism it is a very important thing never to put leading
questions at seances; very often the opinions of the
questioner are forced upon the spirits by means of long
queries, instead of the spirits being left to tell their
own tale, and we have seen some of these opinions bf
inquirers in print as spiritual communications.
In spirit-life the divisions between people in widely
different spiritual and mental states are tremendous. A
case occurred a few weeks ago, where a person who had
attended one particular spirit-circle ‘‘off and on” for
two years, was told by the controlling spirit—‘‘ Your
sister Edith is near you now; I have never seen any
spirit near you before.” Yet the spirit who made this
remark had frequently, in the presence of this sitter,
given proofs to a portion of the strangers who visited
the circle, of the presence near them of certain of their
departed friends.
Although proofs of spirit identity are comparatively
rare in England to each individual inquirer, nearly
every experienced Spiritualist has had several such
proofs, not ascribable to thought-reading. American
Spiritualists are much better off, for they have several
good test-mediums, like Mr. Mansfield, whilst we in
England have none. A good test-medium is much
wanted here. Test-mediumship, except for its great
use in convincing people, does not seem to be a very
high form of the gift, but more allied to physical me-
diumship; that is to say, that the mediums who have
been so developed as to enable different spirits to give
names, dates, and statistical facts with accuracy, are
seldom so controlled as to transmit the higher teachings
of Spiritualism. We have been told of several instances
where young mediums first had the physical manifesta¬
tions ; next, test-mediumship; then lost both, and
became inspirational public speakers.
In thus attempting to solve the problem why proofs
of spirit identity are comparatively rarely received at
present in mixed circles in England, it is not forgotten
that there may be numberless other difficulties in the
way of the transmission of spirit messages, of which we
know nothing. The well-known circumstance, that
favourable conditions for good manifestations are fur¬
nished by small circles of five or six persons, who are
strongly bound together by the affections, and who all
join in quiet singing, proves that harmony and unani¬
mity of mental states powerfully favour spiritual influx
from the higher world.
“ GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.”
A little book, entitled Glimpses of a Brighter Land,
published by Messrs. Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox, con¬
sists of messages about the conditions of spirit-life,
given through the writing mediumship of a lady well-
known to London Spiritualists, and it is a book which
has hitherto met with less attention than it deserves.
Writing mediumship differs from all other kinds of me¬
diumship in the circumstance that the communications
have not to be reported by witnesses, so are free from
those sources of error which must ever have their in¬
fluence upon records which are the result of observation.
There is one kind of writing mediumship by which the
spirits can so control the movements of the pencil, as to
write out the proper names and the former addresses of
departed persons unknown to the medium, showing that
they have very complete control of the physical part of
the organism through which they act. There is another
in which they seem to act upon some part of the mental
organism of the medium, from which the spiritual ideas'
pass downwards, are without the consciousness of the
medium translated into words, and come into the
material world by the movements of the hand. Ideas
and high teachings can be given by such mediumship,
but not the names and addresses of persons unknown
to the medium; moreover, the spiritual ideas having to
pass through a process of translation, and to flow into
the outer world through one long channel, the phrase¬
ology of different messages will be found to be very
similar, and as if the composition of one person,
but the ideas and trains of thought in the different
messages will be found not to be the same. If this
kind of mediumship stood alone it might possibly
be explained as unconscious action of the brain, but
when it is considered in connection with the whole
range of spiritual phenomena, there can be little ques¬
tion that the messages are spiritual communications,
unconsciously translated and coloured by the channel
through which they flow. We think the mediumship
of the lady whose book is now under consideration to
be of this kind. She is unconscious of what her hand
writes, and has no idea whatever of the words or
sentences formed on the paper, until she reads them ;
there is much similarity in the composition of the
messages received from different spirits, just as in Judge
Edmonds’ book on Spiritualism, and in all the books we
have seen where high teachings are given through
writing mediumship. When the value of all accurate
records of spiritual phenomena is considered, and how
common a thing it is for private individuals to shrink
from publicity in connection with Spiritualism, all
Spiritualists should feel, grateful to the lady who has
issued the book now under notice.
We give a few quotations. In the first one the
communicating spirit tries to explain how degraded
spirits are tied down to the scenes and desires of earth,
but in the process of unconscious translation of the
spiritual message these mental bonds are pictured as
visible threads and ropes. In all such symbolical
messages the intelligent reader should cast aside the
literal statement, and seize the spiritual idea within, of
which it forms the clothing.
THE SPIEITtTAE STATE OP A BAD MAX AT DEATH.
u Again I was desired to go to earth, but this time
our mission was one of sorrow and grief. Stretched on
a bed of sickness, lay an old man, his eyes glared, and
his thin emaciated hands clutched the bed clothes. At
one side sat an aged woman, at the other knelt a boy
and girl, their hands clasped, and their sobs mingling
with the old man’s curses.
“ ‘ I will not die,’ he gasped, ‘ I am yet strong, I
feel the life-blood in my veins. Curses on you, you
want my money, my gold, my precious gold.’
11A shiver ran through the poor children at his side,
and they drew closer together.
“‘Father, father,’ said a tender voice, ‘we want
no gold; give us but your love, and bless us ere we
part.’
“ ‘ Part,’ screamed the old man, ‘ we shall not part,
give me wine, wine the elixir of life, ha ! ha! ’ and he
laughed wildly. * Curses on you, you old hag! ’ he
shrieked, turning to the woman, ‘ give me wine, or
must I fetch it ? ’
“ Sorrowfully the woman arose, and fetched a glass,
but unseen by him poured in a narcotic; he swallowed
the draught eagerly, and wanted more, but the head
fell back, and for a time all was quiet.
“It was the first death bed of an unhappy unrepentant
mortal I had seen, and my heart was stricken with
horror and misery. Seeing this my guardian angel
approached me, and light flowed into my mind, a veil
seemed taken from my eyes. I saw the selfish man’s
past life. I beheld his gentle wife, broken-hearted and
sorrowful, passing away, and leaving her children. I
now beheld her spiritually beside her children, trying
to infuse comfort and resignation into their minds. I
saw their thoughts, and their future spread before me,
and perceived that by the removal of their father and
his bad example they would be freed from contagion,
and looking to God for aid, clinging to and supporting
one another, they would battle on through life, de¬
veloping, purifying, and finally rise to happiness and
love; as I saw this I grew calm and no longer
sorrowed.
“An angel then advanced, and holding his hand
over the old man’s head, the dark forms retreated, and
the darkness cleared away, the old man’s face grew
calm, and I saw his wife approach and breathe upon
him. I then looked at the children; the girl’s head
had sunk on her brother’s shoulder, and she slept a
calm and peaceful slumber, while round her bright
spirits sought to communicate sweet words and ideas of
heavenly happiness. I thought that she perceived her
mother in her sleep, for she gently murmured the
word, ‘ Mother.’ Meantime I saw something like
rays of light streaming from the old man’s body, and
uniting in a point above him; as I watched, these in¬
creased and gradually assumed a form. His spirit
had passed away while the narcotic held his frail body
entranced; but, unlike the child’s spirit, the threads of
life were strong and entangled, and soon the body
became convulsed and horrid to see. I turned from it
with pain and looked at the children. Both slept, and
gentle spirits were around them. The mother breathed
on her daughter and kissed her soft hair, and seemed
trying to infuse thoughts of heaven and happiness into
her mind. Then she kissed her boy and breathed on
him, and both appeared happy, for smiles parted their
lips, and their hands clasped one another -tighter and
more lovingly. From time to time thtfFoy passed his
disengaged hand across his brow, and I then perceived
tbe struggle in his mind or inner brain, with sad
thoughts and glad visions. Behind and near the old
man was darkness, before the children and in front all
was light, and I then perceived it was the bad influence
of the old man which gave the boy sad visions, mingled
with the bright: the girl’s head being pillowed on the
boy she did not feel it. The old woman then arose, a
bright spirit leading her, and advanced to the children.
Gently raising the girl, she partly led and partly carried
her into the next room, then came back and touched the
boy; he sighed, shivered and looked up wildly, but on
seeing her, arose and followed her. I then saw the
dark cloud more distinctly, and perceived that it was
composed of a group of bad spirits, attracted by the old
man’s wicked life and passions. I became faint, for I
thought the evil tried to impede the good, and entangle
the skeins of life. The old man’s body was convulsed
and twisted and his face distorted.
“ The spirit appeared Unable to free itself from the
innumerable links or threads of life that bound it down
to earth; yet gradually light prevailed and he rose, and
I now beheld a light, yet surrounded by darkness, float¬
ing over the bed. I can only compare it to a star,
plunged amidst dense, dark clouds of pitchy blackness.
The star expanded, increased in brilliancy till I saw a
form above, even as on the bed. It became perfected
and then descended nearer and nearer to the body; it
appeared weighed down, and I saw that threads con¬
nected the two forms, then as I looked I perceived
countless spirits filled the apartment. The bright
beings were far outnumbered by the dark and dusky
forms that now crowded round. I turned to my
guardian for an explanation, and then I saw that the
bright figures held shining crosses, and eagerly en¬
deavoured to attract the new spirit’s attention ; but all
his looks were directed downwards, and the dark spirits
were anxiously speaking to him and breathing on him.
He looked dense and dark, and the light was becoming
each moment fainter; all around him appeared grey,
he heeded not the good spirits, and I could detect no
wish to rise. His eyes were rivetted on a black object,
which I saw was a bottle,—to this he was strongly
attracted. He drew near and tried to touch it, but
each time he stretched forth his hand a hidden power
controlled it. Then a tall dark form took up the coveted
bottle, and the old man’s spirit followed, attracted as
by a magnet.
“ I saw all the dark forms eagerly assisting to with¬
draw the threads holding them down, while the good
raised them up. It appeared to me as if the spirit
passed away slowly and heavily, that it was surrounded
by dark forms all clinging to the threads of life still
hanging around, and weighing him down. As I looked
steadily, I saw each thread appeared of a different colour
or shade, typical of earthly passions, inclinations and
desires. I saw one clearly—a thick strong yellow thread
that indicated love of gold, and one near it like a spotted
snake, yellow, streaked, and spotted with red, like
blood. This was the thread of the gambler’s life, that
bound him to the gaming table; again I saw a thread
of deep blood red, this was the one that made him draw
life from others. He had, as a child, tortured and tor¬
mented all animals unable to resist, also children smaller
than himself. He had ruthlessly seduced and aban¬
doned young confiding girls, and also married women,
and the blood of men was on his head ; a vision of duels
passed before me—another and yet another. I felt sick
and faint, and my guardian led me into the next room.
There I saw the poor children asleep, and the old woman
watching by their side. She was worn and exhausted;
but my guardian, approaching, held his hand above her
head, and soon a sweet and tranquil slumber rested on
her wearied body. He then advanced to the children,
where the mother soon joined him, and after conversing
awhile, we left her and ascended once more.
“ Thus do men lay up for themselves stores of suffer¬
ing and sorrow ; think of that old man when he wakes
from his present lethargy, and realises all the misery of
his existence; his sole idea of happiness being in sensual
enjoyments; his only wish to remain on earth, and his
inability to partake any longer of its delights, forming
his mental torture—no hope for the future, no repent¬
ance for the past; no wish to improve or rise. I shud¬
dered, as I thought on this, and sorrow filled my heart;
yet gladness arose on thinking what I might have been,
what my dear father might have suffered, and I felt
cheered and happier. Turning to my guardian, I ex¬
pressed a hope that I might be permitted to return and
see those children, to watch over them, help, aid, and
counsel them in their future life. He smiled, and said
that no tie held me, no power impeded me ; I had but
to wish and act, try and encourage good wishes, active
desires; to assist the sorrowful, and even seek to carry
out such desires, always hoping for celestial wisdom to
guide and aid in their fulfilment. With this my heart
was filled with joy, and I returned to my home happy
and content, to read in my precious well-loved Book,
words of love and guidance.
“ I have but little more at present, dear friend, to
say, though I often hope to be permitted to come and
write for you. I wish to tell you that the greatest part
of spirit writings are intended as types. By colours
are represented light, love, purity, and wisdom, celestial
and terrestrial; and the more spiritual you become, the
more will you see and comprehend the beauty of those
meanings now often dark to you.”
THE NATURE OP SPIRIT INFLUENCE.
“ To-day it is the spirit of one you never knew on
earth, but who watches over you daily and hourly, and
with anxious eyes sees your spiritual development.
Some days your flowers and leaves spread forth brightly
and gloriously to the sun of light and true knowledge,
and the petals expand in size and increase in brilliancy
of hue, also in fragrance.
July 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
“ At other times your petals close and shrink, and
even, wither; such are the days when thoughts of earth
fill your mind, and heaven fades away from your
thoughts; then do the flowers of your spiritual mind
seem tp close and wither and lose their fragrance and
brilliancy of tint: the golden streaks become brown,
and the bright blue turns black. Then are our hearts
filled with sorrow, and our prayers rise frequently and
fervently to the Creator, to send high and holy mes¬
sengers to call you back, and to help you to rise once
more.
“Yet think not by this we control your actions. You
can act and think, and we only try to influence your
actions through your mind, to purify and raise the tone
of thought; to ennoble your ideas, and help, not force,
you to progress. All this may seem strange, but it
will all become clear. As yet many of our inventions
are'unknown on earth, and many scientific discoveries
are still undeveloped, but by degrees we shall explain all,
and infuse new ideas into the brain of some one yet on
earth. To do this we must find a mind open to reception
—not prejudiced, but glad to learn; eager to try and
study and seek for knowledge, even though it be under
a new form, and contrary to preconceived ideas and
habits of thought. We find few such among men, and
hence arises our chief embarrassment. We must also
find a peculiar influence and atmosphere surrounding
the person, to enable us to ‘approach freely, and to act
upon him.”
MINTSTEBING SPIRITS.
“ People on earth have strange ideas of the spirit
world. It is simply the world you live in made per¬
fect, more beautiful, more splendid, and with no winter
or snow, or cold or rain—always summer, always genial.
We are so happy; but we are never idle. We all have
our appointed work to do. We are usually employed
at that in which we excelled in the world in which you
live, and also in useful works, such as tending the
sick and dying. It may seem absurd to those who
will not believe, that we are sent to help those who
pray for aid. We often hold up the sinking frame
and support weary heads and failing arms, and help
them to guide the shuttle at the loom, or ply the needle
through the weary hours of night. Many a poor semp¬
stress prays for aid and receives it invisibly; many a
poor weary artisan obtains help to finish his task. We
do not actually perform the work, as of olden days the
fairies were supposed to do; but we aid and help by
mesmerism, and support and strengthen the labourer
to do his task. We fan his brow, and cool the air
around him, and endeavour to help in every way we
can, and he feels happier and lighter-hearted j and
when we hear him pray or thank God, we feel we are
rewarded, and go back so happy.”
THE SEERESS OF PREYORST.
In 1829, nearly twenty years before the beginning of
modern Spiritualism in America, Dr. Justinius Kerner,
a poet and Government physician, published the life of
one of his patients, Madame Hauffe, now better known
as the “ Seeress of Prevorst,” who possessed clairvoyant
and spiritual powers of a high order. The book caused
great sensation in Germany. Some of the wisest men
in the nation, including Kant, Schubert, Eschenmayer,
Gorres, and Werner, went to Weinsberg to see Madame
Hauffe, and perfectly satisfied themselves of the truth
of the matter in all its details.
Many of the revelations of Swedenborg are proved
by modern Spiritualism to be true, mixed with a pro¬
portion of error; the same may be said of the revela¬
tions made through the mediumship of Madame Hauffe.
She, however, made known the following, among other
leading facts of spirij; life, namely :—that there] is no
eternal punishment; that the lower spirits can move
solid objects when favourable conditions are given them ;
that spirits bold different religious opinions, just as they
did while in the body; that the lower the spirit the
greater is its power over common matter; and that men
who have done evil become earth-bound spirits after
death—tied down to earth by their affections and
thoughts. Those spirits who held theological views
akin to her own, she considered to be higher than those
who held views at variance with her own. She noticed
that many of the lower spirits had their heads wrapped
up in a white fabric, so as not to show their hair, a fact
which harmonises with recent experiences in London
in the matter of face manifestations, though what the
meaning of it may be is at present a mystery.
The following are some of Madame Hauffe’s state¬
ments, extracted from Mrs. Crowe’s translation of
Dr. Kerner’s work
“ I see many spirits with whom I come into no
approximation, and others who come to me, with
whom I converse, and who remain near me for months;
I see them at various times by day and night, whether
I am alone or in company. I am perfectly awake at
the time, and am not sensible of any circumstance or
sensation that calls them up. I see them alike
whether I am strong or weak, plethoric or in a state of
inanition, glad or sorrowful, amused, or otherwise; and
I cannot dismiss them. Not that they are always with
me, but they come at their own pleasure, like mortal
visitors, and equally whether I am in a spiritual or cor¬
poreal state at the time. When I am in my calmest
and most healthy sleep, they awaken me—I know not
how, but I feel that I am awakened by them—and
that I should have slept on had they not come to my
bedside. I observe frequently, that, when a ghost
visits me by night, those who sleep in the same room
with me are, by their dreams, made aware of its
presence; they speak afterwards of the apparition
they saw in their dream, although I have not breathed
a syllable on the subject to them. Whilst the ghosts
are with me, I see and hear everything around me as
usual, and can think of other subjects; and though I
can avert my eyes from them, it is difficult for me to do
it—I feel in U sort of magnetic rapport with them.
They appear to me like a thin cloud, that one could
see through—which, however, I cannot do. I never
observed that they threw any shadow. I see them
more clearly by sun or moonlight than in the dark;
but whether I could see them in absolute darkness I do
not know. If any object comes between me and them,
they are hidden from me. I cannot see them with
closed eyes, nor when I turn my face from them; but
I am so sensible of their presence, that I could desig¬
nate the exact spot they are standing upon; and I can
hear them speak although I stop my ears. I cannot
endure that they should approach me very near; they
give me a feeling of debility. Other persons who do
not see them are frequently sensible of the effects of
their proximity when they are with me; they have a
disposition to faintness, and feel a constriction and
oppression of the nerves; even animals are not
exempt from this effect. The appearance of the ghosts
is the same as when they were alive, but colourless—
rather greyish; so is their attire—like a cloud. The
brighter and happier spirits are differently clothed;
they have a long loose shining robe, with a girdle round
the waist. The features of spectres are as when alive,
but mostly sad and gloomy. Their eyes are bright—
often like a flame. I have never seen any with hair.
All the female ghosts have the same head-covering—
even when over it, as is sometimes the case, they have
that they wore when alive. This consists in a sort of
veil, which comes over the forehead and covers the hair.
The forms of the good spirits appear bright—those of
the evil dusky.
“ Whether it is only under this form that my senses
can perceive them, and whether to a more spiritualized
being, they would not appear as spirits, I cannot say ;
but I suspect it. Their gait is like the gait of the
living, only that the better spirits seem to float, and
the evil ones tread heavier; so that their footsteps may
sometimes be heard, not by me alone, but by those who
are with me. They have various ways of attracting
attention by other sounds besides speech; and this
faculty they exercise frequently on those who can
neither see them nor hear their voices. These sounds
consist in sighing, knocking, noises as of the throwing
of sand or gravel, rustling of paper, rolling of a ball,
shuffling as in slippers, &c., &e. They are also able to
move heavy articles, and to open and shut doors,
although they can pass through them unopened, or
through the walls. I observe that the darker a spectre
is, the stronger is his voice, and the more ghostly
powers of making noises, and so forth, he seems to
have. The sounds they produce are by means of the
air, and the nerve-spirit, which is still with them. I
never saw a ghost when he was in the act of producing
any sound except speech, so that I conclude they can¬
not do it visibly; neither have I ever seen them in the
act of opening or shutting a door, only directly after¬
wards. They move their mouths in speaking, and their
voices are various as those of the living. They cannot
answer me all that I desire; wicked spirits are more
willing or able to do this, but I avoid conversing with
them. These I can dismiss with a written word, used
as an amulet, and free others from them as well as
myself.
“ When I talk to them piously, I have seen the
spirits, especially the darker ones, draw in my words,
as it were, whereby they become brighter; but I feel
much weaker. The spirits of the happy invigorate me,
and give me a very different feeling to the others. I
observe that the happy spirits have the same difficulty
in answering questions regarding earthly matters, as
the evil ones have in doing it with respect to heavenly
ones; the first belong not to earth, nor the last to
heaven. With the high and blessed spirits I am not in
a condition to converse; I can only venture on a short
interrogation. I am told that, when asleep, I often
spoke with my protecting spirit, who is amongst the
blessed. I know not if this be so; if it were, it must
have been in moments when my spirit was disjoined
from my soul. When soul and spirit are united, I
cannot converse with the blessed.
“ The spirits who come to me are mostly on the
inferior steps of the mid-region, which is in our
atmosphere; but mid-region is a misnomer, and I call
it so unwillingly. They are chiefly spirits of those who,
from the attraction of, and attachment to, the external
world, have remained below—or of those who have not
believed in the redemption of Christ—or who, in the
moment of dying, have been troubled with an earthly
thought which has clung to them, and impeded their
upward flight. Many, who were neither condemned nor
placed amongst the blessed immediately after death, are
on different stages of this mid-region; some, whose
spirits have been purified, are very high. On the
lowest degree, these spirits are still exposed to the
temptations of the wicked; but not in the higher,
where they already enjoy heavenly happiness, and the
purity of the blessed.
“ But it must not be thought that improvement is
easier there than here; it must originate with them¬
selves; there are no worldly distractions or dissipations;
the whole sinful life lies comprised in a single sign, or
character, before the spirit, and he has to choose be¬
twixt heaven or hell. Those in the lower degrees, who
are the heaviest, are in a continual twilight, with
nothing to delight their eyes. This dimness does not
belong to the place they are in, but proceeds from their
own souls. The orbit of the sun is no longer visible to
them; and, although they are in our atmosphere, they
have no eyes for earthly objects. It is only by their
inward improvement that they obtain light and the
power of seeing. As soon as they have light in their
souls, they can quit our atmosphere, and they can see
light again. These are they who mostly come to me;
whilst I am unhappily so constituted that I can see
them, and they me. They come to me that I may aid
them through prayer, and give them a word of con¬
solation. Others come under the erroneous persuasion
that the avowal of some crime, which weighs upon their
spirit, will bring them rest. Under the influence of
this error, they are often more anxious about some
single misdeed, than about all the rest of their ill-spent
lives ; and others still come to me to whom some earthly
feeling or thought has clung in death, which they can¬
not shake off. It were better they addressed themselves
to the spirits of the blest; but their weight draws them
more to men than spirits. They come to me and I see
them independently of my own will.
“ These revelations will appear to many incredible and
absurd—especially to those who are of opinion that a
spirit must know more than a human being; but I
answer that this is not the case with these spirits; they
are in a very inferior state, are mostly entangled in
error, and can more easily approach man, with whom
they are in a sort of nervous, relation, than heavenly
spirits. A spirit that has lived in darkness here on
earth, remains dark after death. And thus a weak
spirit becomes weaker after death, when it has no
longer the support of the soul, which then only serves it
for a shell; or rather the amount of his weakness is ex¬
posed by his standing alone and unsustained. A sinful
and worldly-minded man may shine on earth by the'
strength of his intellect; but his spirit is only the
weaker and darker, and wholly lost to its inner-life.
And thus also it arises that, in the kingdom of spirits,
such a one is much lower than his arrogant and lying
soul caused him to appear in the intellectual kingdom.
If, however, a man has highly cultivated his soul and
spirit, he cannot, after death, fall into this heavy and
impotent state; but, by cultivation, something is implied
of a much more elevated nature than is commonly un¬
derstood. But even in these powerless spirits, except
when completely given over to evil, the heavenly spark
is not wholly extinguished ; these seek always to draw
the soul to them, till it is at length purified, then they
become wholly spirits. Such spirits, when they are not
entirely pure, enjoy a certain degree of happiness in
the mid-region, in which they may rise higher, but "can
sink no more. The forms of these 'spirits appear to
me brighter, as does also their attire; in short, they are
spiritualized.”
Dalston Society oe Inquirers into Spiritualism:—
Last Monday at the fourth half-yearly meeting of this society,
at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, Mr. T. Wilks, president, occu¬
pied the chair. Among the members present were Messrs.
Gr. Biyton, P. Corner, J. Stephens, J. B. Ortton, W. H. Harrison,
S. Williams, H. Cook, Mrs. Corner and Miss Corner. Mr. T.
Biyton, secretary, read the report, which set forth that twenty-
two ordinary seances had been held during the past half-year
at which there was an average attendance of fifteen persons.
It was stated that the most successful seances were those at
which there were no discordant mental elements present,
but where all were bound together by unanimity and har¬
mony of feeling. Most of the failures were due to inharmo¬
nious elements in the circle, and a few to humidity of the
atmosphere. The accounts showed that there was a small
balance in hand, notwithstanding exceptionally heavy expen¬
ses. The number of members was about the' same as last
half-year, namely twenty-eight. The report was adopted
unanimously, after which Mr. T. Wilks was re-elected presi¬
dent and Mr. T. Biyton secretary and treasurer. The mem¬
bers of the council were then eleeted, Mrs. A. Corner being
added to these previously in office. Mr. J. B. Ortton
was appointed recorder to the society. Mr. H. Cook in propo¬
sing a vote of thanks to the president, council, and officers,
expressed the general feeling of all the members of the asso¬
ciation in stating how well they had all performed their
duties.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. D., Brighton.—We do not know the theological opinions of the
authoress mentioned. At present there is no security that you
can get .a genuine spirit photograph of a departed friend any¬
where in this country.
A few correspondents complain of irregular delivery of the
Spiritualist. It is the fault of the newsvendors, or their London
agents, if residents in the provinces or in foreign countries do
not receive their copies in proper time.
52
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 15,1872
INSPIRATIONAL POETRY.
When the Brixton Society of Spiritualists held its
meetings some time ago, at Mr. E. Bird’s, 98, Lothian-
road, Brixton, two young ladies, sisters, occasionally
attended the seances, and one of them developed into a
medium for the transmission of inspirational spirit
poetry, which has excited considerable interest among
the Spiritualists residing in the neighbourhood. She
does not desire her name to he published.
Last Thursday she made the following statement to
us about her mediumship:—“ I first saw something of
Spiritualism at Mr. Bird’s, in November, 1870; I sat
in a spirit circle there four or five times, and on a few
occasions sat at home by myself in the attempt to
obtain manifestations; my sewing-machine would
sometimes rock violently. One day, in April, 1871,1
was sitting at tea with my relatives, when I was en¬
tranced, unexpectedly to myself, and to the great
fright of my sister. Before that, the spirits would
sometimes cause my hand to move. Erom that time I
used to be entranced regularly, but did not entirely
lose consciousness at the time; I was made to answer
philosophical questions, and to explain difficult pas¬
sages of Scripture. Gradually I was impressed to speak
with my eyes open instead of shut, and I became con¬
scious of what my lips were saying. I often see scenes
at the same time that I describe them poetically, but it
is not exactly the same as ordinary vision; I cannot
describe the sensation; this seeing comes on at unex¬
pected times. The poetry came, first in May, 1871.
The spirits put pieces of poetry rapidly into my mind,
giving me one line at a time, and pausing while I
write down the words; sometimes I distinctly hear
the voices of the spirits. They will make poetry at
once upon almost any subject I or others give them;
sometimes friends present have chosen the subject.
Sometimes they have given three pieces of poetry
in one day, or single poems several days in succes¬
sion ; occasionally the power leaves me for one
or two weeks, and in two instances it left me
for three months. It has left me during the past
fortnight, but is coming back again. I know it is
coming back again, because the spirits impress me with
a few lines now and then, and then stop. I have no
power to Write poetry myself. I do not like it; seldom
read it; and'in my normal state have not poetical ideas.
The spirits say that they wish to give a higher class of
poetry through me than hitherto, but I cannot take it
yet. It gives a feeling of fullness in my head, and
makes it ache as if it would burst. I have two sisters
who are both mediums. One is a trance medium, the
other sees and hears spirits. I do not know that there
is anything hereditary in our mediumship. My father
laughs at it, and does not seem to know what to make
of it.”
The poetry, of which a great number of specimens
are lying before us, varies much in quality; but with
a very few careful alterations to make the rhyme and
metre more perfect, nearly the whole of it would be of
a superior order, the ideas being good and pure. The
verbal alterations required are so easy to make, and so
palpably required, that the absence of artificiality in
the verses is strikingly evident.
We now quote a few of the best pieces, beginning
■with one about the wind:—
“ ’Tis night, and the sky is heavy and dark,
With clouds like the raven’s plume,
And the bitter wind a-moaning keeps,
As through the silent street it sweeps,
Rousing the slumberers from their sleep,
With a solemn sobbing groan.
“ It passes the bridge with a whistling sound,
And a howling cry of pain,
Then over the field it goes with a bound,
Scattering the dead leaves all around,
Making the gloomy forest resound,
With its shout of wild disdain.
“ Now to the ocean grand it goes,
And laughs with frantic glee,
As the turbulent waves come rushing on,
Maddened by the mocking tone
Of the cutting blast’s deriding song,
And foaming angrily.
“ ‘ Ha! ha 1 proud sea! ’ it cries with a shout,
‘ I can rouse you from your gloom,
I can make your waves run mountains high,
And the foam from your white-flecked bosom fly,
As out of my. reach in vain you try.
To carry your waves along.’”
In tbe course of the poem tbe ocean boasts that it
has a greater store of riches, and is mightier than the
wind. The wind asks, “ If it did not help to sink
ships, where would the riches of the ocean be?” and
closes by saying,—
“ But I envy not the riches rare,
That are found beneath the sea ;
To hear your thundering billows roar,
To see them rolling o’er and o’er,
And then come dashing on the shore.
Is sport enough for me.”
A description of Yenice begins thus :—
“ The shades of evening gather overhead,
The birds have hushed their song, while all around
Is bathed in the rich glow of the setting sun,
Which gilds with gold the tall cathedral spires,
And turns the painted windowsdnto flames of fire,
Tinging with light the water, flowing calmly
Beneath the gloomy palaces of the high and wealthy
Dwellers in fair Yenice.”
Tbe following are extracts from a poem on “ The
Pall of Pompeii ” :—
“ ’Tis noon. The orb of day lies like a golden ball
Within its azure frame, emitting rays of light
Which flash across the bosom of the sky, in streams
Of yellow glory fading to palest gold, then die away.
No cloud disturbs the heavenly blue,
Except where yonder mountain rears its lofty head,
And from its gaping mouth pours forth a column vast
Of smoke. Grim as a giant of the olden times.
It guards with threatening brows the fair city
Which lies beneath, flooded with amber light.
The temples built of marble gleam white as ivory
’Tween verdant trees, amidst whose branches
Birds of rainbow hue flit to and fro,
Gay as the butterflies which sport o’er flowers,
And steal the glowing tints to deck their wings of gauze.
The citizens of that once famous town, Pompeii,
No wealth have spared to make their mansions
Gems of art and beauty. The floors of tesselated stone,
Are bright as glittering steel, in the soft beam
Which falls from silver lamps, mellowed to moonlight rays,
By shades of glass. Columns of arabesque
Support the painted roof, the carvings almost hid
By wreaths of flowers, on whose fresh leaves
Bright streams of perfumed water flow from jets of gold.
* * * * * * »
Hastening from the baths, they saunter home in groups,
To end the sultry day with feast and song.
Slowly the daylight disappears, as though ’twere loth
To leave a spot so fair. The sky, a dress
Of deeper blue has donned, spangled with stars,
And the pale moon a radiance sheds on lighted palaces,
From which gay laughter issues, mingled with bursts
Of music, wild and sweet. But as the hours wear on,
Yon furnace pours forth denser clouds of smoke,
And tongues of fire leap from the boiling depths,
Casting a lurid glare across the fated town.
The noisy revellers, unconscious of their doom,
Chant noisy odes to Bacchus, god of wine,
But whilst the words are trembling on their lips,
And joyful strains of music fill the rooms, a shout
Of horror breaks upon their ears. The song is hushed.
The startled guests spring from their cushioned seats.
And ask in anxious tones the meaning of that cry.
But hark 1 E’en as the question’s put, the sound is heard
Once more. Caught up, and echoed by a hundred tongues,
These words come wailing through the air :—“ Woe, bitter woe
Has fallen on us. The gods in wrath have loosed
Vesuvius, and we are lost 1” The streets are thronged
With young, and old, whose sands of life are nearly run.
Support their aged forms on knotted sticks, striving
To ’scape with all their feeble strength from fiery death.
Sons, who seek only their own safety, heedless of wives
And children, left alone to brave the frightful storm.
Matrons, who carry in their arms the little babes,
Too young to tread the pavement of the streets, and hold
In a despairing grasp the hands of older ones,
Whose wild affrighted eyes, and piercing screams,
Rend the poor mother’s heart, as struggling in the crowd
She calls in anguish on the gods to save. Youths
Who have left the banquet room in eager haste,
Their heated brows still garlanded with flowers,
Elbow their way amid the anxious throng;
Their rich and gorgeous dresses, sparkling with jewels,
Brush as they pass the naked flesh of him,
Who in that hour is free. Fair maidens, too,
Of noble birth are there, their dainty forms
Borne by the fleeing mass away from loving friends,
Are carried on until they fall beneath the feet
Of those behind, who onward press, across those fragile forms
With undiminished speed, caring for naught
But their own precious lives. The flaming cauldron
Belches forth a shower of red hot ashes upon
The land below. Torrents of liquid fire
Pour down the mountain sides, and flow in streams
Of scalding lava through the streets. The pillars
Of the Coliseum totter and shake, like corn
Beneath the reaper’s stroke, and rocking to and fro,
Fall to the ground a shapeless mass of granite. *
The earth whereon the fane of Isis stands, heaving
With mighty throes, is lifted as the billows of the sea
When tossed by storm ; then with a sharp
And cracking noise, slowly divides. Within that cavern grim
The fair and stately temple finds a gloomy grave.
The huge volcano still sends out its fires.
Whole streets have disappeared, and in their place
Lie smouldering heaps of ashes. Few citizens
Escaped to tell the horrors of that fearful night,
And those who did will ne’er forget the woe
And wretchedness of that dread time.
Thus what was once a rich and prosperous town
Has now become a city of the dead.
Here is one more quotation from these interesting
poems:—
“ I love to ride on the ocean wide,
And feel the spray of the foaming tide;
To watch the waves as they bound along
Murmuring ever their restless song ;
To catch a breath of the fluttering breeze,
As it skims across the open seas,
And whistles aloft amongst the sails,
Spreading the cloth with whispering gales.
I love to gaze on the sea-gulls white,
Soaring away on their pinions light;
To see them rest on the billow’s crest,
And shake the foam from each snowy breast.
And then to look on the monsters grim,
As they swim beneath like phantoms dim,
And watch the gleam in their hungry eyes,
Greedily waiting the coming prize.
To mark the glittering, shining wings
Of fish that fly with hurrying springs—
To see them leap from the briny deep,
And sink again ’neath the wavelets steep.
Such is the path I would ever tread,
Careless and wild'as the birds o’erhead;
My thoughts shall: be as free as the sea,
That vast’expanse of liberty.
Of all the poetical mediums, perhaps, Mr. T. L.
Harris is the most remarkable. He would pass into
the trance state, and then give forth whole volumes of
poetry of a high order; his words were taken down in
shorthand, and the poems afterwards published. We
select the following from his Lyric of the Golden
Age:—
“ To write a poem, a man should be as pure
As frost-flowers; every thought should be in tune
To heavenly Truth and Nature’s perfect law,
Bathing the soul in beauty, joy and peace.
His heart should ripen like the purple grape,
His country should be all the universe,
His friends the best and wisest of all time.
He should be universal as the light,
And rich as summer in ripe-fruited love;
He should have power to draw from common things
Essential truth, and, rising o’er all fear
Of Papal devils and of Pagan gods,
Of ancient satans and of modern ghosts,
Should recognize all spirits as his friends,
And see the worst but harps of golden string
Discordant now, but destined at the last
To thrill, inspired with God’s own harmony,
And make sweet music with the Heavenly Host.
He should forget his private preference
Of country or religion, and should see
All parties and all creeds with equal eye;
His the religion of true harmony,
Christ the ideal of His lofty aim,
The viewless Friend, the Comforter, the Guide:
The Joy in grief, whose every element
Of life, received in simple child-like faith,
Becomes a part of impulse, feeling, thought,
The central fire that lights his being’s sun.
He should not limit Nature by the known;
Nor limit God by what is known of Him;
Nor limit Man by present states and moods;
But see mankind at liberty to draw
Into their lives all Nature’s wealth and all
Harmonious essences of life from God,
And so, becoming god-like in their souls,
And universal in their faculties,
Informing all their age, enriching time,
And building up the temple of the world
With massive sculptures of eternity.
He should not fail to see how infinite
God is above Humanity: nor yet
That God is throned in universal man,
The greater Mind of pure intelligence,
. Unlimited by states, moods, periods, needs,
Self-adequate, self-balanced in his love,
And needing nothing and conferring all,
And asking nothing and receiving all,
Akin by love to every loving heart,
By nobleness to every noble mind,
By good to all who dwell in charity,
By truth to all who look through outward forms,
And feel the throbbing arteries of law
In every pulse of Nature and of Man.
He should be wise in simple things, and take
Delight in childhood, and to every child
Be near as Nature, fragrant as the rose;
Suggesting by his presence and his smile
A world above the natural. He should be
A scholar among scholars, deeply read
In Art and Science and Philosophy;
Familiar with the workings of the mind;
Not led away by fine-spun theories;
Facts should be welcome to him not the less
Because discredited by vulgar minds,
The occult and the wonderful should be
His constant meditation; he should feel
The inner movements of the outward world,
And hear a spirit-music in the air,
And feel a spirit-breathing on his cheek,
And walk illumined by a mental light
Forth-streaming from a sun of mind no less
Apparent to him than the sun of space.
He should be sceptical of all things base,
And charitable of the faults of men,
Discriminating ’twixt the faults that come
From the young heart, undisciplined, unwise,
But over-brimmed with generous impulses,
Even as a crystal cup too full of wine,
And those lean vices bred in monkish souls,
That neither multiply immortal deeds
By marriage of eternal Truth and Love,
In their own natures, nor beholcLthe deeds
Of other men, bold, free and beautiful,
Without attainting them as traitors all.
He should put off the fetters of his time;
Write not for present popularity,
But be content to wait for auditors,
Till men awake to feel their need of him.
He should not sing when wearied or infirm
Of mind or purpose, or oppressed with care,
Or fevered with the strife of outward things;
But hold in check the mounting faculties,
Pruning away the scions of the brain
And fruit-buds set too thickly. He should hold
His gift in reverence. He should mould his life
In beauty’s perfect fashion, holding on
Columbus-like through floods of thought unknown,
Till tropic archipelagoes of song,
Till virgin continents of stately verse,
And undiscovered worlds of harmony
Repay the bold adventure. Not elate
By sudden joy, like maudlin fools with wine,
He should remain the Lord of his new realms,
A Godlike sovereign, ruling his sweet verse
Like Prosper© in his enchanted isle.
When men grow envious of his blushing fame
He should surround himself with harmony,
Like a young Angel bosomed in a star,
Breathing such ravishing delights that soon
The critic-world, entranced and wrapt away,
The willing thralls of that resplendent Muse,
Dear to each mortal as his own fy’st love,
Would cease to cavil and begin to sing.
He should partake the bounty of the world,
The rich man’s banquet and the poor man’s cheer,
The wise man’s wisdom and the lover’s joy,
As if he were the universal guest.
Xuly 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
Death should grow beautiful at his approach,
And doff his starless mantle of the night,
And stand apparelled in empurpled gold,
And open that wide wonder-realm that lies
Beyond the confines of mortality;
And radiant Genii, ruling each a world
Of choiring Cherubim, should be his friends.
All the ripe season of his natural year
He should precipitate his thought in song,
As God precipitates His thought in worlds.
His death should be a journeying from the night
Into the golden land from whence he drew
Love, melody and joy. His life should lift
Mankind from out their death of wordy prose
To Poetry’s immortal life divine ;
For Poetry is not begotten of the Muse
By natural generation, as are born
Mere pedantries, that hold in thrall mankind.
True Poetry is God’s essential truth
Clothed in a form as various as the world;
And all the Angels teach him how to sing,—
The Poet-born,—true to his being’s law.
Mr. Harris’s character is one which forbids all idea
of wilful plagiarism, and the man who could write
poetry like the foregoing would scarcely need to help
himself to the verses of others. Mr. Gerald Massey, in
his clever little pamphlet Concerning Spiritualism, calls
attention to the following verse in one of Mr. Harris’s
poems:—
Thou art, 0 Lord 1 the life and light
Of that celestial world we see ;
Its angel songs of truth and right
Are but responses unto thee.
Through every soul thy glories shine,
And all things pure and true are thine.
Mr. Massey compares this with the following verse
by Thomas Moore :—
Thou art, O God 1 the life and light
Of all this wondrous world we see ;
Its glow by day, its smile by night,
Are but reflections caught from Thee.
"Where’er we turn, Thy glories shine,
And all things fair and bright are thine.
An analogous case has occurred in London. Mrs.
Everitt has long been in the habit of receiving mes¬
sages at her seances by direct spirit writing, without
the intervention of human hands; sometimes there are
sentences in foreign languages, not understood by any
members of the circle. One evening a brief description
of the Chinese people was given in this way; Mr.
Everitt shewed it to us, and we told him it was a quota¬
tion from one of the articles of a special correspondent
of the Times, published some years previously. Mr.
Everitt, perhaps, thought us in error in the statement;
at all events, he published the message shortly after¬
wards. The result was, that the newspapers discovered
it to be a quotation, and one of them—The Globe, if we
remember rightly—had an article about it. Yet no
Spiritualist who knows Mr. and Mrs. Everitt will
doubt that they received the said message by direct
spirit writing.
When we couple with this fact the character of the
high and pure teachings given through Mr. Harris,
both in his trance and normal states,—^teachings which
induced Mr. Laurence Oliphant to give up place and
power in England to become his follower,—it is easier
to suppose the identity of the verses quoted to be due
to one of the unknown mysteries of trance-mediumship,
rather than to plagiarism.
In the long communications now being given to Mr.
Everitt by the spirits, on the Christian religion, Mr.
Everitt has no security that all is new and original;
much of it reads like a monkish essay of the Middle
Ages. All he knows is that he receives the messages
in an inexplicable way from an unknown author.
A day or two ago we received from Hew York an
essay by Judge Edmonds on the poet Chatterton, rais¬
ing the novel question whether the great mystery of
his life cannot be explained by assuming him to have
been a medium. Judge Edmonds quotes the following
from an article on “Literary Forgeries,” published
recently in Harper's Monthly Magazine:—
“ He was but sixteen when he produced those so-called
poems of Eowley, which deceived so many excellent judges,
and which still hold a place in English literature.
* * *
“ From the old stores of pretended manuscripts of the monk
Rowley, Chatterton drew successively not only the drama of
‘ Ella,’ ballads, eclogues, and those poems which, as I have
just said, form to-day part of the English literature, but
even genealogies, &c.
* * *
“ There is no denying the superiority of Rowley’s poetry to
all that Chatterton subsequently published under his own
name, or that was found after his death; so that, even to this
day, we find ourselves confronted by that literary problem—
a writer who has shown infinitely more grace and talent in
imitations than in his own language : who, in an obsolete
dialect, has left admirable fragments, but who dropped to
mediocrity in the moment when he returned to the common
English of his own time.”
Judge Edmonds further says of Chatterton :—•
He was bom in 1752, three months after the death of his
father, who was a tailor in Bristol, England. At the age of
five he was sent to a charity school, but was withdrawn as an
incorrigible dunce in a year and a half’s time. Of his mother
he learned his letters. In his eighth year he was sent to
school to a pedant in poetry. There he remained seven years,
and was almost the only pupil whom his master could not
excite to poetical enthusiasm. During these seven years he
took no interest in his associates, and veiled, beneath an
appearance of incapacity and melancholy, the labours of an
original mind, and wrote some poetry even in his eleventh and
twelfth years. In his seventeenth year he imbibed infidel
principles, and contemplated suicide. He went to London,
where ultimately “ he suffered for want of food, while with a
gay exterior he frequented places of public amusement, re¬
tained his unconquerable pride and vanity, confided his dis¬
tress to no one, declined the invitation of his landlady to a
dinner after he had been three days without food, spent his
last penny for a dose of arsenic, and was found dead in his
room, surrounded by numerous manuscripts which he had torn
into shreds.” In the meantime he had “ made himself pro¬
ficient in the most various studies; created the person, history,
and language of an ancient poet; composed epics, tragedies,
satires, elegies, ballads, and a long narrative poem, and
exhibited powers which promised him a high position among
English poets.” He was buried in a pauper burying-ground
in London, and had a monument afterwards erected to his
memory by the citizens of Bristol!
During the time when he was-penning those works which
are now, and were at the time, denounced as “ literary for¬
geries,” may it not be that the spirit of some departed man of
those ancient times might have been using him, without his
being aware from whence the impulse came, as his medium
for communicating to earthly man the thoughts which, in this
life and the next, he had been gathering and enlarging ?
Judge Edmonds, who is a medium, states that on one
or two occasions he has seen spirits inspiring speakers,
who thought they were speaking with their own un¬
aided intellects; and that the spirits impressed him
with the Words which would he uttered, just before
they actually came out of the mouths of the speakers.
Many poets have written about “ The Winds,” and
we fancied we had heard lines before like some of
those in the poem at the beginning of this article ; hut,
after diligent search, have not been able to discover
that there is any truth in the idea.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN BRISTOL.
The last number of the Spiritual Magazine contains the
following account written by Mr. J. Beattie, of Westbourne-
place, Clifton, Bristol, of some manifestations which took place
recently in his own house :—
“ On the 12th of April, Mr. Home paid me a visit for a short
time ; only one friend knew of his arrival, and came to meet
him ; about 7.30 p.m. three gentlemen and one lady were sit¬
ting casually talking about general matters, when part of the
furniture of the room began moving, and sounds of invisible
feet were heard (Mr. Home was reclining at ease on a sofa a
long way from the moving bodies). This made us agree to
turn our attention to carefully watching what might occur.
Twilight soon supervened, but everything in the room con¬
tinued distinctly visible. First, a force was exerted which
shook violently, not only the things in the house, but the
house itself. Loud sounds were heard, not only answering
our questions, but often answering unspoken thought. A chair
was lifted and carried across the room and suspended in
mid-air for fifteen minutes ; it was allowed to fall on the
floor and was then lifted up again. A large cushion was car¬
ried from the sofa, and was moved up and down in the air by
hands seen distinctly. Another chair was then brought from
a distant corner of the room, and lifted from the floor over us,
and placed on the table in a lying forward position ; in this
position it seemed endowed with both feeling and life, it
moved about aud gently patted each one on the head, and
then returned to me, when it stroked and clapped me in a life¬
like manner.
“ At this time brilliant lights were seen in the room, in
some places light stars remaining for minutes, in others bright
soft lights passing about the room. Beings were visible
moving about, hands and other parts of figures were often
seen ; a figure was distinctly seen to come and lift both me
and my chair. I had here the most remarkable experience
during my fourteen years’ careful investigation of these
phenomena. I never could get any communication in any
way from my father, who passed away under peculiar circum¬
stances, twenty-five years ago. I had no positive reason for
it, yet the idea came often into my mind that he might have
been buried while in a deep trance ; this sometimes, on ac¬
count of my great love for him, gave me much uneasiness. I
had long given up thinking of him during seances, but on this
occasion I was impressed to ask if he was present; in reply
came a perfect shower of raps of all kinds, and in all places,
with heavy shaking of the table and the room.
“ On my beginning to ask questions, two hands were seen to
take a newspaper lying on the table and fold it, then with it
strike on the back of my hands in answer to my questions, all
of which were answered convincingly. While that was taking
place, my father’s hand was stroking and fondling the palm
of mine from under the table cloth. At this time we could
hear voices, and my name was distinctly uttered. The
alphabet was asked for, and it was written, “ There never was
a happier spirit.” Then birds were heard moving and chirp¬
ing in the room. The paper that struck my hands then rose
in the air, floated towards the door, and slowly crossed the
room. The lady asked that it should be given to her, when it
went and slowly fell in her lap. After this manifestation
beautiful lights were again seen in the room, when the in¬
fluence came to a close.
“ On Saturday evening a few gentlemen, all well known in
Clifton, met to see Mr. Home, some of them eminent in
science—one an M.D., one a minister of the gospel, one a
teacher of classics in a public school, another a cultured pri¬
vate gentleman, with a lady and myself. Manifestations
occurred, not the same as above, but equally strange. On
this occasion, however, Mr. Home was entranced. I will not
take up space to describe the transfiguration that then took
place, nor the, to me and others, positive proof given that we
were in the presence of intelligent beings that were once in
bodies like our own. I will only say that while in this state
his body was raised three times from the floor, and floated in
the room, and while doing so the lady went and took his shoes
off his feet, these being the height of her shoulder. He then
was lowered gently to the floor. While in this state birds
were again heard chirping and moving about the room. In
this description I have omitted, for want of room, much that
would have been far more interesting to Spiritualists, and
confined myself chiefly to those manifestations best adapted
to impress doubting minds.
*• In conclusion, let me state, once for all, that the theoiy of
deception has here no foothold whatever; in each case there
were three senses at work, and the phenomena were not
quietly accepted, but in each case carefully examined and
tested.”
Miss Kate Fox is now in London.
A copt of a pamphlet, written by Professor Denton, has
been sent us from America, expressing his objections to the
character of the God proposed to he recognised by the govern¬
ment of the "United States.
Sham Spieit Photographs.—"We regret to see that the
Spiritual Magazine, one of the oldest and best journals con¬
nected with Spiritualism, gives full support to Mr. Hudson
and the large number of sham spirit photographs he has turned
out, mixed with a few real ones; our contemporary would never
knowingly aid trickery, and has, doubtless, fallen into this
error through listening to the ex parte statements of; a few
individuals, instead of employing a correspondent to make an
official and searching inquiry into the facts. The evidence of
the spurious character of the photographs is in the hands of
several different persons whohave given attention to the subject,
and is of three kinds, namely:—Clear marks of double exposure
of the plate in some of the printed photographs; facts detected
by observers who visited the premises ; and statements made
by persons aware of much that has actually taken place in the
studio. Those who condemn most of the pictures as shams,
and who made careful inquiry and examination before coming
to a decision are Mr. J. T. Taylor, a photographic acquaint¬
ance of Mr. Taylor’s, Mr. Beattie (of Clifton), Mr. Henderson,
Mr. Guppy, Mr. John Jones, Mr. Pycock, and ourselves.
All these eight gentlemen are more or less favourably in¬
clined to Spiritualism, so condemn most of the pictures with
reluctance ; six of these witnesses have considerable knowledge
of photography, and most of them have given prolonged atten¬
tion to Mr. Hudson’s doings and his pictures—of which latter
a very complete set has been accumulated. Among them are
a few very barefaced specimens, the circulation of which was
stopped after only two or three had been issued. We have
one of a young man and his “double,” in shirt, drawers, and
stockings—a costume anything but ghostly : of this picture,
produced by double exposure, very few copies were issued; but
another one, in which flowing white fabrics were added to
the foregoing costume, was allowed to circulate more freely.
Those Spiritualists who are now, after being fairly warned, gua¬
ranteeing the genuine character of pictures which Mr. Hudson
has published that he will not guarantee himself, are either
not photographers, or include one or two photographers who
have paid a solitary visit to the place, and perhaps obtained
genuine pictures. They are, none of them, people who have
made long and patient inquiry. The theory of the Spiritual¬
ists who guarantee more of the pictures than Mr. Hudson will
do, is that spirits, for some inscrutable reason, have put the
marks of double exposure on the plates, to make real spirit
pictures look palpable shams ! We have one of the pictures
where the dark part of the sitter’s dress, which would show
the superposition of the carpet and the line of the background,
has been scratched off the negative with some sharp-pointed
instrument, such as a pin or needle, and plenty of the scratches
are left on the edges of the collodion adjacent to the part re¬
moved. The explanation, we suppose, will be that spirits
first put the marks of trickery in the picture, and after it was
dry they performed a physical manifestation by raising the
negative in the air, and scratching off the marks of trickery
with a pin. Much money was spent over this picture by the
sitter, who purchased many copies, believing it to be a spirit
photograph. Mr. Guppy has written to the British Journal
of Photography, saying that it was not his fault that his five
genuine pictures fell into the bad company of those produced
afterwards, and adds that had he been consulted in the matter
he should have said, “ Honesty is the best policy.” The editor
of the British Journal of Photography of July 5th gives the
following answer to one of his correspondents :—“ We regard
the three so-called ‘spirit photographs’ enclosed by you as
such palpable impostures as should not for a moment deceive
any one acquainted with photography. Our reasons for giving
this strong expression of opinion are the following:—In one
picture containing two figures of a young man—one appa¬
rently asleep or in a trance, and the other when he has decked
himself in a white fabric—evidences of double exposure exist
in the outline of the sitter’s back being visible through the
end of the white cloth held up by the right hand of the
sham ghost; further, the carpet photographed with the standing
figure is shown through the legs of the acknowledged ‘ flesh-
and-blood ’ sitter, and nice versd. There have been two sepa¬
rate exposures of the plate—one with the ‘ medium ’ dressed
as a ghost, and the other when he was professing to be, or
possibly really was, asleep. The other binary picture of the
same person is of a similar character, the difference between
the two pictures in respect of general arrangement being that
in one the ghost was taken with the table, and in the other
the table was an adjunct of the corporeal figure. The third
picture, with the semi-nude figure of a man is of too gross
and vulgar a character to require comment. Surely it could
deceive none but silly, credulous persons, whose faith is much
stronger than their intellects. One may admire cleverness,
even when misdirected ; but in this picture there is neither
cleverness of design nor excellence of execution ; it is simply
a disgrace to the person, whether he be a ‘ medium ’ or not,
who, by making such an exhibition of himself, could thus
pander to low tastes. If we mistake not, one of the three
pictures just referred to (which we have returned as requested)
is the same that was exposed as an imposture in the columns
of the Spiritualist." After a month’s silence and absence
from London, Mr. Heme wrote us a note, in which he denies
ever having stood as a sham ghost. He and Mr. Hudson
have1 both signed a document to the same effect, and published
it in last Friday’s Medium; in that document Mr. Herne
says:—“ Until I returned to London on Saturday last, I had
not seen last month’s Spiritualist, nor heard of the accusa¬
tions which were published against me.” The truth is that
Mr. Henry Morris, a gentleman well known and much
respected in Manchester, called Mr. Herne’s attention to the
accusations directly after they were published; and Mr.
Charles Blackburn, with other people of like standing, are
aware that Mr. Herne had the accusations brought under his
personal notice in Manchester, immediately after the last
number of the Spiritualist was issued. We regret that the
mediums have forced us to return to the subject of the
photographs this month, and. that the duty has fallen upon
us.of making known these facts ; we have dealt very leniently
indeed with Mr. Herne, Mr. Hudson, and others. For in¬
stance, we spoke last month of only one picture produced by
double exposure, in which Mr. Herne acted the ghost. There
are three at least. Mrs. Burns received one of them as a
spirit picture, and another is on public view, in a frame in
Mr. Burns’s shop. Again, we have spoken almost entirely of
incidents coming within our own knowledge ; if we were to
add the facts which the other seven investigators have col¬
lected, very little would be left for Mr. Hudson to reveal, if
he confessed all that has taken place on his premises. A great
deal more has oozed out than the many persons who have as¬
sisted in the manufacture of the ghost pictures are aware.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1872
(ftfltrespntieiTce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.}
THE EFFICACY OF PEAYEE.
Sib,—A correspondent who signs to his commnnication the
letters “ W. L. A., B. Sc. (what they indicate, I cannot tell),
argues against the efficacy of prayer ; his main objection to
prayer being that it “ tends to produce a habit of dependence
upon another which saps the strength of the character,” and
so forth. That is to say, if man prays to God, he does a very
silly thing ; for either there is no God to answer, or a God
who will not answer ; and, consequently, it is wiser to “ act
on one’s own judgment than to rely on the guidance of any
other being, finite or infinite.”
Yet it is more than likely your correspondent with the
many initials would consult a physician if he were ill, and a
stock-broker if he were about to invest money in the funds.
It is only from a being “ infinite ” he would ask no instruc¬
tion, no protection, no comfort, no hope ; for, of beings “ finite,”
he will admit, he has often need of advice, and seeks for it,
more or less, daily, as citizen, neighbour, parent, husband,
or son.
No doubt there is a base on which his arguments rest, and
he has authority for the information he communicates to your
readers ! Where he gets his knowledge he does not say;
guided by “ a great logician—Guess,”—he is able to advise
us to get rid of the needless trammels of prayer.
There are writers and teachers who have taught us other¬
wise ; there is an old book the testimony of which, in a
thousand places, is to be rejected ; the soundest thinkers,
the most intellectual men and women of all ages and
nations have reasoned differently: but they are all wrong ;
the instinct that suggests to every people of whom there are
any records—whether those who see God in clouds and hear
Him in the wind, or worship Him in a piece of painted stick
<—is a mere nothing ; its universality is no proof.
The writer with the many initials is at least as likely to be
right as are any of the many great men who have studied the
vast subject all their lives long, who have thought and taught
that there is a God, and that fie does hear and answer prayer.
Your correspondent rests his views mainly on the argument
that because we do not always get what we ask for, there is
no use in asking for anything. How often do we receive evi¬
dence that What we most desired was what we should have
most avoided ; that what we coveted as a blessing was in reality
a curse ! * How often is it demonstrated to us that—
“ What seem to us hut sad funereal tapers
May be Heaven’s distant lamps.”
I might quote largely from the Book of Books and from a
thousand other volumes to show the utter fallacy of your cor¬
respondent’s argument: the statements of writers compared
with whom “ W. L. A., B. Sc.” is as the glowworm to the
mid-day sun.
Sir, it is far more than mischievous, it is downright wicked,
so to labour that millions may be deprived of the comfort
they derive from prayer. Admitting, for a moment, that it is
a mere waste of time, that it does impair self-dependence, by
luring us to depend on Him who made us, what possible good
can arise from destroying a delusion that is the very fountain¬
head of happiness.
What will the Sceptic give us in compensation ?
He who deprives us of belief in the efficacy of prayer takes
from us all sense of responsibility; all consolation in trouble ;
all trust in superintending and directing Providence ; all hope
in Hereafter; all that can support us throughout life, and in
death ; all that guides us in prosperity and sustains us in
adversity ; all that sways the affections and regulates the
passions; all, in a word, that raises man above the brute,
and gives him place only a little lower than the angels.
He makes it a mockery to say “ God bless you gratitude
a mere .sound ; selfishness the only policy and duty. He sets
at naught the ties that unite the parent to the child, the child
to the parent, and breaks up all the social bonds that impel to
bear and forbear because of hope in a future; and all this that
he may be “ independent” of God who cannot be independent
of man.
He who teaches this is a criminal of the deepest dye. He
is labouring not only to destroy the mind, he is working to
kill the soul.
I have been tempted into writing a much longer letter than
I contemplated ; yet I should like to make it much longer. In
truth, I took up my 'pen only with the intention of setting
your correspondent right in reference to a very small matter.
If he does give a quotation, let him, at least, do it correctly ;
the couplet he quotes from Pope is not as he writes it—
“Who sees -with equal eye, as Lord of all,
A Arero perish or a sparrow fall,”
but as I here write it—
“Who sees with equal eye, as God of all,
A hero perish or a sparrow fall.”
He might have read a little further on, and quoted these
lines from the same poem—
“Go wiser thou, and in thy scale of sense,
Weigh thy opinion against Providence ;
Call imperfection what thou fanciest such,
Say here he gives too little—there too much.
* *. * * * *
Snatch from His hand the balance and the rod,
Bejudge His justice—be the god of God.”
I detest anonymous writings, and I append my name to this
letter. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.
Sie,—A few more words on the subject of prayer. Your
last correspondent writes as if the sole object of prayer were
to change the will of the Creator. Rightly considered, this is
not so. Prayer is not petition, not supplication, but com¬
munion with the Highest, whereby we seek to strengthen and
purify our own inner spirit, in order that we may be enabled
the better to overcome our circumstances in the calm exercise
of an enlightened judgment.
By this means self-reliance is increased, for having sepa¬
rated ourselves from all mere worldly considerations, we • do
not fear to be influenced by any low motive, or by the opinion
of those around .us.
Prayer also makes us susceptible of impressions, or those
* I could easily quote a hundred cases in point. Though it be of very
minor importance, I will state one recently communicated to me by a
friend. During three nights he had been so restless as to be deprived for
several hours of sleep; he rose, and lit his candle and read. Several years
afterwards, it came to his knowledge that on those very nights burglars
were about his house waiting to break in and rob, and probably murder
him. But alarmed by the light, they postponed the attempt, and finally
abandened it. The deprivation of sleep, which he considered a grievous
evil, was the means of his preservation from a great danger.
sudden promptings, tbe following out of which has proved a
turning-point in the lives of many of us.
Mediums of a certain order have undoubtedly the faculty of
prayer. In recent spirit-communications received by me, the
teaching has been that no spirit circle should be without its
prayer medium, corresponding to the priest or priestess of
religious ceremonies. The audible prayer of the medium first
raises the level of the minds of the sitters, produces harm ony
between them, and renders them receptive of the best in¬
fluences. The spiritual atmosphere is also purified, and in
dark circles the likelihood of deception, and the need of sus¬
picion are equally lessened.
The tone thus given does not necessitate the exclusion of
cheerfulness or even merriment. The modern or western mind
has associated religion with lugubriousness, but in earlier
ages religious festivals were, we know, hilarious, even to ex¬
cess.
We Spiritualists may inaugurate a new mode, and avoid
either extreme : despair and inconsolable distress being for
ever banished by our bright, hopeful, joyous faith, and
frivolity and sensuousness being equally incompatible with
jthe spirit of earnestness and aspiration induced in circles
seriously undertaken and rightly conducted.
Adamanta.
“ Prayer is the Christian’s vital breath,
The Christian’s native air;
His watchword at the gate of death,
He enters heaven by prayer.”
Sie,—The less a man is a true Spiritualist, the less he
knows of the value of prayer. The man or woman who is
often in communion with “ministering spirits ” (call them
angels if you will), whether by hearing, by seeing, or by other
physical methods, and from them, and through them, obtains
advice—obtains guidance in the hour of trouble—can only
pity any person like your athlete of ninety-one lines long, with
the big name of six capital letters, who, in your June number,
inculcated the non-use of prayer “ either to finite or infinite.”
No right-minded pupil in a school would adopt the proposed
plan 9 to act on one’s judgment, calmly formed, even though
failure result,” instead of going to the master to be informed
as to the method by which the problem is to be solved, not
despising an answer through the assistant left by the master
in charge of the education of the pupils. That the problems
of practical life have been often too hard for my brain-power to
solve I well know, whether in the form of business, relatives
beyond home life, home incidents, or new friendships. Yet.
with a will to solve, but an inadequate knowledge of the ele¬
ments involved and evolvable from each, the same problems
have anxiously puzzled others ; and some of them and I have
gone at once, when the problem bothered us, to the Power
“ higher than I,’’and obtained a straight answer to a straight
question. That I call prayer, and prayer answered. Some¬
times to our straight question we have had no answer ; in that
event, we have given credit that our puzzled powers must
work a while longer, and work it out. 1 know we are only pupils
while in the flesh. Life lessons are our studies, our tasks.
“ Athlete ” may think himself very clever, too clever to do
other than to “ calmly ” hit or miss, it matters not. Not so
with us, who are of the ordinary mould of humanity. We
desire to understand our problems, and work them out with¬
out failure. Therefore, when needful, we ask (pray), we are
guided, we songfully rejoice. Knowing we shall soon be dis¬
embodied angels like others, our heart wish is, to be fit for
the higher duties which will then devolve on us if found
capable of becoming assistants under the Great Master Spirit,
God. John Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
BODY AND MIND.
Sie,—The letter of “ Senex,” in your last, gives expression
to a doubt that oppresses multitudes of thinking persons;
once it weighed heavily on myself. Perhaps an answer to
it expressed as briefly as the subject will permit, may help to
relieve many minds besides that of your correspondent. He
asks, “ How is it that, if the mind is immaterial, the intelli¬
gence is destroyed by the absorption of a poison by the blood?”
We must start with a clear conception of the distinction
between soul and body. The soul merely inhabits the body ;
not dwelling in any particular part of it, but permeating the
whole material structure. There is no proof of the fact, but
there can be little doubt, that the soul builds the body, crystal-
ising, as it were, the organic matter about itself in definite
forms. Placed in a material world, the soul, under its
ordinary conditions, can communicate with that world only by
by the material of the body, through which alone it re¬
ceives its impression of the external world, and conveys
its will for operating upon that world. The machinery by
which the soul thus works in this mundane existence is a
delicate nerve structure, of which the brain is the centre,
which runs, by branching cords, through the whole frame.
These nerve cords carry to the brain the impressions made
upon them at the surface of the body, and also carry to the
limbs the will of the individual, in obedience to which will
they act. The brain is a part of the material structure, as
much as the muscles or bones; and this central seat of intelli¬
gence is not the soul, but the organ in direct communication
with the soul. All impressions are carried to the brain, and
the soul receives them from the brain. So, likewise, the soul
can operate only through this brain. It is true that, in certain
abnormal conditions—as in trance or in natural and artificial
somnambulism—the soul can receive perceptions by some
other means than through the brain; and in those states, and
possibly some others, the brain also can act upon the body
without the control of the soul: but in the ordinary condi¬
tions of health, the process of intellectual life is somewhat
after this fashion. The brain, it must be remembered, is an
organ made up of many parts, each of which has a distinct
function, and the communications made to the soul, or by the
soul, are not made by the whole brain, but by particular parts
of it, to which we have given the name of mental faculties.
Now for an illustration. The nerve of sight carries to the
brain a picture of a man suffering severe pain. That image
in the brain instantly excites that portion of the brain whose
action we call our emotions, and then that part of the brain
gives us the desire to relieve suffering. The soul is thus,
through the brain, made conscious of pain by something out¬
side itself, and of a wish to relieve that pain. Then it sets in
action the part of the brain occupied by what are called the
intellectual faculties, and those faculties, by the process we call
thinking, work together to devise a plan for the gratification
of the faculty of benevolence for the relief of that pain, and
this also being communicated to the soul, it wills that the
thing be done; and this will is flashed through the brain and
nerves to the limbs, and they act in obedience to it.
Of course, this is only a very abbreviated outline of the
whole process, which would take a volume for its minute ex¬
position.
While the body is in health the process is performed with
such ease and rapidity that we are not conscious of its compli¬
cations ; but when disease mars the operation of any of the
organs concerned in it, we at once discover what a marvellous
contrivance it is.
A poison taken into it disorganises the blood which flows in
the small vessels of the brain, and then, instead of stimulating
the brain to action, the blood clogs its motions and paralyses
its functions. One after another they lose their power to
obey the will of the soul. They act automatically at first
by the irregular action caused by the irregular flow of the
blood, then intelligence dies away by degrees, and ultimately
the body dies—that is to say, it ceases to be an organ fitted
for the soul’s uses in communication with the material world.
But the soul does not die with it. The soul severs itself from
the dead and useless body, or, to speak more correctly, the
dead matter falls from the soul, whose fate thereafter is a
question too large for this letter.
In the case referred to by Senex, the brain was poisoned,
and the brain is the organ by which the soul communicates
with the outer world. The brain is the organ of the mind, if
it is not that itself which we call mind. The brain often desires to
do something, but is restrained by a superior will. That re¬
straining power is the soul. What we call the will is the
soul—the individual I, the being for whom the body, includ¬
ing the brain, is the machine by which it works in this stage
of existence. When the machine falls out of order, it seems
to us on-lookers as if the central motive power were out of
order also. But it is not so. All that we outsiders can see is
the machine itself ; we witness the muttering imbecility of
the brain, but it is'that of the brain alone. It is not alto¬
gether unlike the case of the steam engine moving delicate
machinery. A wheel breaks in the machine. Instantly it
works imperfectly or not at all. But we may not thence
conclude that the steam engine, which is the soul of the
mechanism, is disordered.
I hope this will at least satisfy “ Senex,” and others
who share his doubts, that the difficulty he has stated is capable
of rational and sensible explanation.
Psychologist.
[There was a printer’s error in our foot-note to “ Senex’s ” letter last
month.—Ed.]
SPIBITUALISM AND EVOLUTION.
Sie,—According to the theory of natural selection, however
amended and modified by Mr. Wallace, and to some extent
by Mr. Darwin, the whole animated world is comprised in one
mighty family of progressive beings—fish, fowl, beast, insect,
reptile. It is no mere question of degree and mode of develop¬
ment and line of divergence which differentiates the whole ;
and no doubt this is a master conception of two mighty minds,
even those of Messrs. Darwin and Wallace, supposing always
the theory be consistent with facts, and all the facts con¬
cerned, from first to last, and from high to low. Now at
the lowest point Mr. Darwin leaves spontaneous generation or
natural evolution for a creator, nor am I aware that he follows
Mr. Wallace up to the higher point in the belief in the exist¬
ence and progression of the man as a spirit after what we
term death. Mr. Wallace is such an ardent advocate of Spi¬
ritualism that one cannot but be anxious to learn how he
dovetails the two theories together. For instance, how does
he get rid of the spirit of the lower creation,—that is, of our
ancestors and progenitors in the great scheme of life, or at
what exact point in the scheme of slow advancement and
development does the soul begin its claim to a future life, if
it be really disallowed to the lower developments. The ques¬
tion is an open one, independent of Spiritualism, for “ many
philosophers have furnished the brutes with a soul,” says
Gall; “ The pious and benevolent Bonnet promised them
immortality.” But I am not unmindful of Mr. Wallace’s
very sage and proper admonition, when he says, “ The pro¬
blem (of Spiritualism) we have now to solve is,—How much
of the facts are true ? Till this be done by some better test
than individual experience, it is premature to discuss what
theories may or may not explain them.” Now this is but
common sense and true Baconian wisdom, only it comes rather
strangely from a man who is one of the most notorious theo-
risers of all the eminent philosophers of the day, and one
would rather have expected him to have advocated, as many
do, the theorising method of Kepler, and which was very much
that of Faraday,—theorising for present instances, but hold¬
ing such as no more than theory until verified by experiments.
They had suggested, just as the fall of the apple suggested to
Newton’s far-seeing mind, the theory of universal gravitation,
and also suggested the experiments by which the theory
might be tested, both methods equally resting on fact; that is
pure induction, or suggestion, waiting on verification, so that
Mr. Wallace need not be offended at any suggestion that his
admonition and practice do not quite run together. But his
intention was quite right to restrain the theorising tendency
of the incompetent for want of the special knowledge requisite,
jumping to conclusions with insolent haste out of|sheer preju¬
dice as to the non-existence of the facts properly or improperly
deemed spiritual, or of the incompetence of the observers and the
fraudulent practices of the exhibitors as honest, and in many
instances at least as competent as themselves. In fact, it is
ju st acting over again not the Pope, but the learned professors in
Galileo’s time, who tried before the grand dukes to argue the
new planet out of the sky, and positively refused even to look
through the glass, or in doing so, tried to make delusion or
collusion to appear in some way, so runs the letter of Gallileo
to his friend Kepler. All then I would say to inquirers into
these new phenomena, “ Never mind the- professors, for
authorities are ever most prejudiced in novel matters, and
jealous of authority. Your facts will become authority and a
recognised science in due course, and create its own men of
science and professors, and who may probably be just as
wrong in their conduct towards others who may then be more
in advance than themselves ; such is human nature, and the
exceptions are rare.” I should like to add a few words on
the supposed religious bearing of belief in a spontaneous
generation, not as a mere law of growth and development, as
supposed in the theory of natural selection by Messrs. Darwin
and Wallace,, but really in regard to the origin of life upon
earth by a living nature. I find clergymen making a great
point in their argument in favour of design—in reply to the
view of the unbeliever—of the absence of all scientific proof
of the inherent capacity of the earth to produce living form
without some fresh exertion, humanly speaking, on the part
of God, as though it was a question of vital importance,
whereas “ the design argument,” as it is called, was main¬
tained long ago, when all the world believed in the so-called
spontaneous generation, and gave it as evidence of design,
that is, of a Divine law or principle permeating all creation ;
July 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
and on the supposition of creation by an all-powerful being
laying down laws towards the accomplishment of a definite
purpose, how can the question afiect the belief in a Divine
rule ? Then how strange appears the present attitude of the
clergy in dealing with this very old question of design, in
seeming altogether to forget how the argument stood not so
many years ago, when the evolution of life, not from “ dead
matter” (whatever that can mean), but from the living prin¬
ciple inherent in all matter, and by a law of nature acting
under the essential condition of a matter then fully believed
in, by the first naturalists of the day, as well as by divines.
Boulogne-sur-Mer. Henry G. Atkinson.
miss cook’s meditjmship.
Sir,—With reference to Miss Cook’s mediumship, I find
that I cannot command the manifestations, and that I must
be content to take what I can get. That Miss Cook has never
attempted to impose upon me in any way is the conclusion
I have arrived at after mature study and comparison of all the
evidence, external and internal, connected with this difficult
case. She is a wonderful medium, and, what is better, is one
who is not afraid to show the dark side any more than the
light. John E. Purdon, M.B.
Sandown, Isle of Wight, 11th July, 1872.
[All who are acquainted with Miss Cook and her mediumship have full
confidence in her.—Ed.]
[advertisement. ]
Snt,—The favour of your publishing the accompanying
amende would be gratefully received by your obedient servant,
A. C. SWINTON.
In a recent posthumous publication entitled Life Lectures,
by the late Ed. N. Dennys (J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row),
a passage appears at page 273 (written some eleven years
since), attributing certain views to Professor Jas. Martineau,
and however its substance might, by some persons, be deemed
applicable to the philosophic bearing of the Professor’s teach¬
ings, the passage seems to be given as his literal words, and
as he not only denies its authorship, but states that it con¬
veys the direct opposite of his teachings from first to last, the
editor of the Life Lectures now cancels the personal allusion,
and expresses his deep regret to Professor Martineau for what¬
ever injustice, injury, or pain may have thence arisen. Due
care will be taken to eliminate all that relates to him on the
subject, and a proper notice of it made in the volume of Life
Lectures. A. C. Swinton.
“ 8, Belsize Park-terrace, Belsize Park, N.W.
“ July 3, 1872.”
EXPERIMENTS IN SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN
BRISTOL.
BY JOHN BEATTIE.
Science has its speculative as well as its demonstrative
aspect; and when we hear of strange results being produced,
it is for us to look behind, and well survey the ground travelled
over before we come to the conclusion that experiment in any
speculative direction will be fruitless of result.
When experiments are said to have led to conclusions ex¬
tremely strange, and apparently unexpected, viewed from the
stand-point of demonstrated truth, we, as reasonable men, re¬
quire the evidence to be proportionate to the strangeness of
the conclusion; results may be announced, like many which
have been made public during the last year by Spiritualists,
which cannot be accepted by reasonable men, except upon
evidence equal to the case. If I report that a man or woman
was passed through the ceiling of my room, leaving all com¬
plete as before, a reasonable man would ask me not only about
the conditions of so extraordinary an occurrence, but on those
conditions being given, he would see that every gateway to any
other possibility was shut, and even then he would be entitled
to ask for many repetitions of such a manifestation before he
would be reasonably led to class such a result as demonstrated.
We would get sadly into the mist, were it not for the keen
analysis of scientific men forcing us to probe every step we
take, in order that we may have firm foothold upon the plane
of demonstrated truth.
In the experiments I am about to describe, you will find a
great part of the evidence required exists in the registered
results, and does not altogether depend upon the testimony of
witnesses to one or more of the experiments.
With this much as an introduction, I will now try and give the
history of these experiments, and how I was led to make them.
I was convinced by the American evidence that there was truth
in the statement that photographic impressions had been made
through the instrumentality of invisible, intelligent beings.
We generally find, if credence be given by many people to a
statement, it may nevertheless contain much falsehood; but
it must have had some root in truth. A falsehood wholly as
such, cannot live, unless it draw nutriment from some hidden
truth.
When I heard that spirit photographs had been made in
London, I was pleased, and looked eagerly for the evidence.
In the spiritual journals I found much that had been written
in proof of the statement, by men whom I considered of su¬
perior judgment, and I was therefore full of belief.
One morning the post brought from a friend a number of
these spirit pictures, all with signatures upon them. A few
days after, a friend came from London to consult me about
them, and brought with him a few more. Now, sir, in spite of
all I had read from the pens of those who had written in defence
of these pictures I was then looking at, I had no choice left me
but to denounce them as a deception (for reasons that could
not be mistaken). And more, they were a deception of a
clumsy kind, and, in my opinion, extremely wicked.
I did not for a moment believe that all, however, was decep¬
tion. I thought some true results must have been obtained,
upon which impostors afterwards tried to engraft their decep¬
tion. All falsehood proceeds from either idiotcy or ignorance.
There are so many who adopt either honesty or dishonesty as
simple systems of policy, that they are to be bought by the
apparent advantage of any circumstances that may occur.
One correspondent tells me, “ I shall live to repent having
said that these photographs were shams, and by inference,
having disturbed the character of the honest man who made
them; ” and one picture gave my correspondent such special
interest—the one in which a man is both ghost and sitter—
that I am pleased you directed attention to the very pic¬
ture in your last issue. I must likewise say that I received
from another clever man a letter of fifteen pages, pleading
for the truth of these productions with great ingenuity.
I resolved from the above to try if any result could be ob¬
tained in my own experience. I called upon an intimate
friend (Mr. Butland), a good trance-medium; his duties
allowed him but little time, nevertheless, I was successful in
getting him to try the experiments with me. Two other gen¬
tlemen, Dr. Thompson and Mr. Tommy, agreed also to assist me.
I next went to Mr. Josty, a professional photographer, and
arranged with him for the use of his studio, glass, instruments,
and such assistance from himself as we might require. The
studio is lighted from nearly north. The camera takes three
pictures or exposures on one plate, 8 in. by 5 in. in size ; lens,
Boss’s, 6^ in. in focus ; all other conditions as usual, only no
dipping bath used, but a flat porcelain tray instead, with a lid
to it, called, by some, a developing tray. Time of day, 6 p.m.;
light “ well curtained,” and lens stopped down to lengthen the
exposure to about two, and sometimes four minutes. The
background was a common one used in everyday work, dark
brown in colour, and standing close against the wall.
The medium sat with his back to it, with a little table in
front of him. Dr. Thompson and Mr. Tommy sat at one side,
and I, during exposure, at the other.
First seance^—nine exposures and no result. Second one, a
week after, on the ninth exposure ; * if nothing had then taken
place, we were resolved to give the matter up. We were pleased,
however, to find on the developer touching the plate, that an
appearance leaped out at once. After long discussion, we
found that the effect could not be classed in any category of
ills that photography was heir to. This induced us to make
farther trials. Let me mention that Mr. Josty, up to this
point, was laughing at the mere idea of the experiments,
although the result in the second seance had staggered him a
little. In our third sitting, on the first plate no result, on the
second plate a manifestation on each exposure ; the first two
like a luminous bust, with the hands crossed and raised; in
the third the same form, but the figure elongated; above and
in front of the figure is a strange angular form, differing
in size and position in each exposure on the same plate. In
the next the figure changes nearer to the human form, and the
other image above has grown like a star. This seeming evolu¬
tion goes on for three more exposures, until the star assumes
the outline of a head. While we were exposing one of this
series, Mr. Josty uncapped the lens, and was sitting by the
camera on a chair. We heard the cap of the lens fall
out of his hands; on our looking he was in a deep trance,
from which he awoke greatly excited and frightened. After
he calmed down a little, he said the last thing he saw was a
white figure in front of us, like his wife. After that took place,
for the rest of the evening, he could not be induced even to
touch the camera or slide, he was so superstitiously afraid. He
did not laugh any more that evening.
In the third series of experiments, the results took other
forms more wonderful. First, we get a cone about three-
quarters of an inch long, with a shorter cone above it; both
like sections of a wax candle. In the second, these forms
radiate light laterally; in the third, the cone is changed into
a form like a Florence flask, and the short one into a shape
like a star; on the fourth the same forms appear, with a
duplicate of the star given in addition. On the fifth, the
effect is exactly as if an ignited magnesium wire had been
dropped into each ; the star is now like an illuminated flying
bird, and the flask shape has burst into light.
At our next seance we had eighteen exposures and no result;
but the day was very wet. Then on Saturday, the 15th, wC
had most strange effects both physically and spiritually. I will
try my best to give a truthful description. Twelve exposures,
and no result. Then Mr. Butland and Mr. Josty were both
entranced, and from that trance Mr. Josty never entirely re¬
covered for the whole evening. He kept saying, “ Fat is dis ?
I feel queer 1 I am tied (we smiled at the expression) 1 Fat
you say in England when you too much beer ? ” In fact, he
felt the stupid sensation of semi-trance. On the next ex¬
posure his duty was to uncap the lens. When he had done so,
he walked quickly and stood behind us, at which we were sur¬
prised. When the time was up, he ran and replaced the cap.
Observe—on this one came out a white form in front of him,
just leaving his head exposed. Now, to this hour, he will not
believe he went and stood there; he evidently was guided to
do so in the trance state.
Next experiment, Mrs. Josty sat with us, and Dr. Thomp¬
son uncapped the lens. During the sitting, Mr. Josty said,
“ I see a fog, all like a London fog.” On the next part of the
plate going on, he said, “ Now I see nothing—all white,” and
he stretched out his hands to convince himself we were there.
On the third part of the plate going on for exposure, he said
he saw a fog again, and Mr. Butland said, “I see a figure
before me.” Now, observe, these statements were made during
the exposure. When I touched the plate with the de¬
veloper, the result was most, nay, inconceivably, strange. The
first came out covered by an equal semi-transparent veil, and
the natural images neutralised, or destroyed; not only was an
effect produced, but one prevented. On the next one was
complete opacity. Oh the third a thin veil and figure, as seen
by Mr. Butland.
Next seance, only one result out of fifteen exposures. A
figure like a dragon: I can attach no meaning to it. This
was followed by an interesting session, in which the plates
were covered with strange flames, in each case minutely
described by both mediums as to number, position, and
brightness during the exposure. One last trial on the 22nd,
Mr. John Jones from London present. Mr. Josty was suffer¬
ing from a severe headache, and Mr. Butland was much
fatigued by other duties. Twenty-one exposures, and only
three results: one a luminosity only, the other two forms like
trusses, well rounded, with a clear line in front, and light
radiating from behind.
In this report I have given as well as I can a sort of skeleton
of these 'experiments. During their progress much occurred
that required to be seen and heard. The experiments were
undertaken for our own satisfaction only. We closed every
door from which there was the remotest suspicion of wrong
getting entrance. Having done so, we commenced our work
earnestly, hopefully, but truthfully. The results have well
repaid us, even if we get-no more. I enclose you for inspec¬
tion a set of these results. I am sure you cannot fail to see
their immense value in a scientific sense. Suppose, instead
of these, we had obtained portraits, I fear, however much we
might have been satisfied, the world about us would not have
been so, and we could not have expected them to believe us.
Now just as many I saw from London had on the face of
them the proof of how they were made, so you will, I think,
at once see, on observing carefully, that these manifestations
contain on their face, when seen as a whole, proof of their
strange and uncommon birth. During the whole of our
experiments we have had explicit directions given us as to
light, time of beginning and stopping of the lens. Before we
begin our work, the table comes round and individually salutes
us. I do all the photographic manipulating. The images
jump out at once, long before the normal images, and this
* The first manifestation was, therefore, on the eighteenth exposure.
shows the great energy at work. The negatives require no
intensifying, a wash with iron solution being all that is
required. The invisible friends never know whether they
have been successful or not until we tell them. They often
express great disappointment at there being no result, saying,
they tried their best.
These experiments, if they have been rightly conducted, in
my opinion tend to prove that the luminous substance, said
to have been seen by sensitives arising from magnets, crystals,
shells, &e., has a positive existence in an objective sense.
These substances when condensed exert powerful chemical
force; and the energy thrown off from them strikes the
plate with an impact, equal to that of strong solar light. But
the most unbelievable statement is to follow, namely, that
these substances are taken up by invisible intelligent beings,
and moulded into shapes, like clay in the hand of the artist,
which shapes, when exposed through a lens, can be photo¬
graphed, whether they be likenesses of human beings or
otherwise. By people whose retina can be impressed by these
forms, they can be described exactly, before they are made
visible to the common eye by development.
I may be wrong, but I again repeat that these things have a
value not easily described. To the purely physical philosopher
they reveal a mode of action confirming his notion of the
subtle nature of force. And if the doctrine of the unity of
force is true, then this is but another mode of the manifesta¬
tion of force. To the Christian and spiritual philosopher the
experiments confirm their leading idea of the persistence of
life, and the existence of unseen intelligent beings, who,
though freed from material bodies, are yet working with and
for those they care for on this plane of life. Thousands care
little for the next world so long as they have it all right in
this. Thousands are anxious to make the best of both worlds.
They mean to live richly in this, and insure for the next. A
great many think this world might be dispensed with, and are
of opinion it tends to what they call sin. I believe this world
is both good and sublime in its beauty, and that there are a
vast number of beings who have performed most of their
journey through it, but who think they somehow have missed
their way. For convincing these persons that there is time
ahead in which they may correct their reckoning, and gain a
course in which they may more freely breathe, and live a life
in harmony with true beauty, such manifestations as I have
described will be of great use.
Westbourne-place, Clifton, Bristol.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, last week, at a meeting of the St.
John’s Association of Spiritualists, St. John’s Hall, Corpora¬
tion-row, Clerkenwell, London, Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-
medium, gave an inspirational address under spirit influence.
Mr. Cogman presided. Mr. Morse is quite unconscious when
entranced, and when he wakes up, does not know what he has
been saying.
The spirit controlling the medium said that it was his privi¬
lege to once again speak a few words for a few moments to
some of the dwellers in the mortal world, and he would try
to execute his task to the best of his ability. Principles and
laws, he said, never change, but the apprehension of them by
humanity is ever unfolding; the knowledge of man to-day is
circumscribed only by the present stage of advancement of
his intellect, and in the future his knowledge will, in extent,
surpass that of to-day, as the wisdom of to-day surpasses that
of ages gone by. To facilitate this progress, the human mind
must be free, and those who would shackle it are the greatest
enemies of the human race ; the laws of nature should
be interpreted by human consciousness alone and unaided,
without the interposition of enforced authority. Truth is
born of error; the bitter experience which is the result of
error, is man’s guardian angel, teaching him to shun such
errors for t)ie future . What matters it that a thousand
errors die, when it is certain that every truth will live for
ever ? In consequence of the relationship of modern
Spiritualism to popular theology, the Spiritualist is now
attacked from almost every point of the social compass,
causing him to be censured, ignored, or threatened with pains
from the wheels of the ponderous engine of persecution;
therefore, he does well to pause sometimes and to consider
the position in which he is placed.. In dealing with this sub¬
ject, it was not desirable to consider it from a sectarian point
of view, for the wrangling sects of Christianity are cheeking
and killing themselves; dissension being the forerunner if
destruction, they may be left to that death which is surely
before them. There are, however, principles at the root if
sectarian opinions, which must be worthy either of support if
true, or of the keenest opposition if false; he might cite, for
instance, the doctrines of original sin, total depravity, atone¬
ment for sin by the death of Christ, the cessation of miracles,
two states only of mankind after death, the resurrection of
the body, a final day of judgment, and eternal punishment.
Spiritualists knew very well that these were doctrines which
serve to frighten unthinking people, and children too young
and too tender in mind to be able to stand against the improper
use of mental authority. The Spiritualist is able to prove
that miracles have not ceased ; that spiritual communion still
exists, not with the inhabitants of hell, but with spirits living
in a rational state of existence. The facts of the spirit circle
contradict most of the leading teachings of popular theology.
The visitors from the silent land bear witness that the burning
blazing hell has no existence save in the fevered imaginations
of those who penned its description ; the infinite love of the
great Creator could no more descend to such an horrible act,
than the purest angel could descend to the meanness of a lie.
The condition of every spirit in the next world differs from
that of his neighbour; there are extremes of good and bad in
the next life, and an infinite number of grades between them.
In one sense it is true that the age of miracles has ceased, and
remains only for the ignorant and credulous; for the spiritual
manifestations of to-day stand forth in all their radiant
beauty, governed by immutable law, veiled and obscure at
present to man, but in due time the laws will be read, and
transcribed into the book of human experience. Spiritualism
removes the uncertainty about the reality and nature of the
future life, and brings the knowledge that deeds done in the
body influence the life hereafter. To become a Spiritualist is
not simply to believe in the moving of tables, or to talk with
spirits, but to understand the philosophy which underlies the
facts, and to act up to the knowledge thus gained.
Mr. Morse left London a few days ago on a visit to Paris,
where he is likely to remain a day or two.
Mr. Francis Galton, F.R.S., recently read a long and
thoughtful paper before the Royal Society on the transmission
of hereditary characteristics. It was published in Nature
last month.
56
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 15, 1872
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, tnai it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESEBVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses, that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. 0. P. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
Prench, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances.
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Mattes' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should mate unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
Arm under me.”
Mr 0. P. Varley, C.E., P.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
veiy eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, P.R.S. (editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that Certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age ? —No : for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism X see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate Sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
TfAere reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Smritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are. therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether abree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO EOEM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the, sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other Should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tfitings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals.be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message f ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
_ 8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
^questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms !
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
In the Press. A new Volume of Poems, price 2s. 6d.
N INVALID’S CASKET. By J. H.
Powell, author of “ Life Incidents and Poetic Pic¬
tures,” &c. “An Invalid’s Casket” is the result of
nearly seven years’ poetic musings, the majority of the
pieces being composed in America. The object of the
present issue is to secure (if possible) means, from its
sale, to enable the author to support his family. He has
now for fifteen months been growing daily less able to
perform any kind of labour, owing to a disease which
keeps him in continual pain.
Intending Subscribers will confer a favour by forward¬
ing their Names, Addresses, and Subscriptions at once
to J.H. Powell, 179, Copenhagen-street, Caledonian-road,
London, N.
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Bev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,”
“ The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger,”
&c., &c., &c.
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light on the subject of Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to illustrate the correspondence of the soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid under any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.O.
EGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d.
Trousers, from  013 6
Vests     0 7 0
Black Suit, from     3 0 0
Unrivalled Black Doe    110
Tweed Suit  2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos, Blyton, Secretary, &c.
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares op £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET,
MANCHESTER.
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Baypord, LL.D., Senior Regis¬
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodlifpe, Accountant General,
India Office, Westminster, London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.O.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 57£, Old Broad-
street, London, E.C.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and
Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial ” (originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, and adopted with some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by the Registrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN,
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
British national insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.
BROWN-STREET AND MARSDEN-STREET,
MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
I of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has
been made upon the Corporation during the year pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten, Per cent, will be returned on
the payment of Renewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE CORPORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
TPSYCHIC
FORCE.—The
proofs of the
Ja_ existence of a Psychic Force are fully set forth in
the New Edition of “ SPIRITUALISM ANSWERED
BY SCIENCE,” by EDWARD W. COX, S.L., F.R.G.S.
Price Half-a-Crown. This New Edition has been re¬
written, and doubled in size.
Longman & Co., Patemoster-fow.
J1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Price 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
vJT Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
P P S ’ S COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the operas
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.” ,
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Ready, Crown 8vo., pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the eyidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Patemoster-row.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED. —Part II. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave-Maria lane, E.C., or F. J. T., 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenseum.
“It contains more truth,poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pomdr;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr, Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, L4on Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
'New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con*
cisely and faithfully setrforth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. IL
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Contents.
Future Movements in Spiritualism   49
Spiritual Telegraphy.—No. IL   49
Spirit Photographs     49
Glimpses of a Brighter Land  SO
The Seeress of Prevorst  51
Dalston Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism  51
Answers to Correspondents   51
Inspirational Poetry  52
Spiritual Manifestations in Bristol     53
Sham Spirit Photographs   53
Correspondence:—Efficacy of Prayer; Body and
Mind; Spiritualism and Evolution; Miss Cook’s
Mediumship   54
Experiments in Spirit Photography in Bristol  55
St. John's Association of Spiritualists   55
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
