AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEBED FOB TEANSHISSION ABBOAD,]
No. 158.—(Yol. YII.—No. 10.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 3, 1875. Published "Weekly; Price Twopence*
orotuents.
Mesmeric Experiments. By J. M. Gully, M.D    109
The British Association at Bristol:—The' Beligious Influence of the
British Association—The Nebular Hypothesis of the Origin of the
Earth—Prehistoric Man—A Ourious “Creature"—The Mental
and Spiritual Development of Primeval Man—The Gradual De¬
velopment of Civilisation—Bhabdomahcy and Belomancy   110
A Story of a Prophetic Dream        113
Extraordinary Manifestations in Manchester. By William Oxley ... 114
The Future of Spiritualism  ' ...   114
Shooting at a “ Spirit ”      115
Important News from Paris     115
Poetry:—Scraps   ...        116
Correspondence :— Spiritualism in Germany—Spiritualism in the
North of England—The Belncarnation Controversy—A Strange
and Startling Story—Test Experiments—Dr. Tyndall on the
Nature of Things—Mesmeric Experiments at a Seance  llg
Provincial News:—^Liverpool   ...       119
Answers to Correspondents      ...'     120
Paragraphs:—Mr. Dale Owen, 112; Spiritualism in Brussels, 115;
Turning to the East ...  ’■ ...     I ... 115
East London spiritual meetings. — leg-
tubes giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FBANOIS BAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVEB PLACE, REGENT’S PAEK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cathedrals, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Bue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GBEAT EEPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BBEATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ABCANA OF CHEISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SEBIES OF SEEMONS. Is.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mrs. Connor, 16, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, land the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of fiVe shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Busseil-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT BUSSELL-SBEET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KAEDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Trice 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Bev. John Paul, Rector of
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching."—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 87, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J.Tykrman,
Price Threepence. To behad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
NE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 44d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 3, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS, (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presid&nts.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpobl.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs.,46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W,
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road., Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading. *
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fijz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixtob, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W,
Mawson, Wm. Bryham,!, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road.t S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. 0., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mali,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., L The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common,S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camrp'
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bahdjd Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gortobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.'
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St, Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect. 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein. '
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ghamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York; U.S.A.
J. H Peebles. Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A, .
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. O. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Gartenhaus, Leipslc.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Olinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, TT.9.A.
M. F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M, Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, IJ.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussfee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby. 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Oowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
ME. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFOEDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At homo Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.   ,
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour;
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. .Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
Sea. Terms for private i seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
TVJOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JLi of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily! from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes,, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter,
VOU-UJVIE JBEVEJ\f. J^UjVlBEF} TEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 3rd, 1876.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS: —Half-a-crown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Eoduced terms
for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O,
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr..E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be oi'dei'ed of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office, of
Mr. J. Selwood, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Lifejof Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. O. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London .-—SiurKiN, Marshall & Co.
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
The debate on Mesmerism at the Brixton Psycho¬
logical Association on the 18th inst,, and reported in
your journal of the 27th, tempts me to record two
experiences, of no ordinary character, of mine in mes¬
merism. I should not do this were it not that the mes¬
meric influence seems in some way, which I admit to he
obscure, to bear upon the spirit influence which it is
the function of The Spiritualist to investigate. It is
forty years since I first gave myself to the inquiry into
mesmerism, and in my long medical career I had abun¬
dant opportunity of putting the subject to practical
test. Here are two such, for the complete accuracy of
which I pledge my veracity. In the year 1847 a
married lady patient of mine was afflicted with neu¬
ralgia of the most aggravated and almost universal
kind—face, head, limbs, loins. The pains came on
every night about nine o’clock, and destroyed her
sleep for the whole night. All kinds of opiates,
tonics, aperients, had been administered ineffec¬
tually for more than two years. My own hydrothera-
peutic treatment also failed. The purely neuropathic
character of the complaint suggested a trial of mes¬
merism, which, indeed, I used in very many and varied
cases. I mesmerised the patient myself; every night
at nine o’clock I was making passes all down the
body, at first for two hours, then for one, and
so on diminuendo, until at the end of four months
I had obtained such mesmeric influence over her
nervous system that it sufficed for me to look
for five minutes on her closed eyes to stop all pain
and put her into a profound sleep for seven, eight, or
nine hours. In this way the periodicity of the pains
was broken, and in about seven months they were
cured by mesmerism alone. During these months I
made varied experiments on her susceptibility to the
influence. Ofttimes when she was seated at any time
of the day, talking to her husband or to our sister, I
would, from the further end of the room, and behind a
newspaper or book, which I pretended to read, will her
to sleep, and after five or six minutes the crochet*
needle, or whatever she might be holding, would fall
from her hands, her head fall on her chest, which
heaved a deep sigh, and she was asleep for an hour or
more. I then used to will her to sleep from an adjoin¬
ing room, totally unsuspected by her, and the same
sleepy sigh and sleep itself followed in ten or twelve
minutes after the exertion of my will. At length I
judged it better she should have change, and she and
her husband went to Cheltenham, twenty-one miles
from Malvern, where I then resided. I told them I
was about to try to influence her at that distance at
nine o’clock on that night, Wednesday j the same on
Thursday, but that on Friday I should be in crowded
company, and could not. After that date I told them
nothing, and they expected nothing. On the Wednes¬
day I willed her to sleep from Malvern at the usual
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
hour, and she fell asleep soon after nine. On Thursday
the same; on Friday I did not will her to sleep, and
she did not sleep until past midnight. On Saturday I
did not will her to sleep, and she did not sleep; she
did not know what to expect, be it remembered.
Sunday night came, and, employed in writing, I forgot
all about her until I gave up writing at half-past
eleven ; then, which was not the usual hour, I willed
her to sleep. The account sent to me by the husband
was this : “ As no sleep came on Friday or Saturday
nights we concluded you had given up trying to pro¬
duce it. On Sunday evening we thought nothing
about it, and were conversing with two friends, when,
at about half-past eleven, my wife suddenly heaved
that well-known sigh and dropped her head, and in
two minutes she was fast asleep. I laid her on the
sofa, and at half-past two in the morning carried her
to bed, still in a profound sleep.” Here there was a
crucial experiment, sleep coming when the will influ¬
ence was employed, and not coming where it was
withheld, and this both when the patient knew and
when she did not know what course I should take
regarding her.
The second instance is that of a lady of twenty-
eight years, who had lost walking power for nearly two
years, though I had no doubt that the palsy was of
the hysterical kind; if she attempted to stand, her
loins and legs gave way immediately, and she dropped
like a stone. The very first time I mesmerised her she
stood up firmly for ten minutes. After a dozen times
the influence was such that she could not resist follow¬
ing me about the room, although she held by the sofa and
declared she would not come to me as I beckoned her
from the other end of the room. By this sort of
applications he totally recovered her locomotive power
in the course of three months. All this time, if, when
I was in the room at some distance from her, any one
else touched her or even brushed by her dress, the
most powerful convulsions seized her whole frame,
and she foamed at the mouth just as an epileptic
patient does; but this all ceased the instant I took her
hand or laid my hand upon her shoulder; and always
after mesmerising her I took the precaution of moving
the air strongly about her. If I failed to do this, as w&s
once the case, the convulsions came on as soon as her
sister touched her, and they were obliged to send for
me instantly. She left Malvern for Essex; and now
comes the most curious part of the story. Although
she had recovered her walking she had not recovered
her sleep, which was very had when I did not procure
it by mesmerism. 'When she left, therefore, I proposed
to send her three or four large amber beads in a small silk
bag or closed in a jeweller’s card box every second post,
which beads I had carried in my pocket for forty-eight
hours. These beads she tied on the crown of her head,
and they invariably produced a good night’s sleep. I
always put them up and despatched them myself, so that
nothing should touch them but my own hands. But it
happened one day that being in a great hurry to leave
home I only placed the beads in the bag and box, and
told my amanuensis to cover and seal and post it.
As soon as the post could let me know, I got this
note from the lady; “ What have you done with
the last set of beads: I am sure some one has
touched them since you did, for the instant I
placed them on my head one of the old con¬
vulsions came on. Do inquire about it.” I did so,
and found, sure enough, that my amanuensis had
Sept. 3, 1875.
opened the bag and taken out the beads before
posting them, his curiosity being keen to know what
it could be that I always put up and posted with my
own hands. These are two facts as certain and
accurately given as my own present existence. What
was the agent at work in both of them ? “ Imagina¬
tion,” says one learned gentleman; “ cerebration,”
says another. But these are mere words, until they
tell us what the action in both is, and how it is pro¬
duced. Since no agent at present recognised by
scientists can account for them, it is our duty as sin¬
cere seekers not to pooh-pooh them because those
agents cannot explain them, but to go on seeking
until we find by what force I caused sleep at a distance
of twenty-one miles, and what force I and my
amanuensis sent in the beads that caused the violent
act of convulsion in a third person one hundred and
forty miles distant.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL.
THE KELIGIOUS INFLUENCE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
The Bristol Daily Post has published a series of
leading articles bearing upon the religious influence of
the British Association, and the weak points of some
of the strongholds of Materialism. The following is
from last Friday’s issue of that journal:—
In every town visited by the British Association, the
general result is a loosening of the more stringently orthodox
bonds of public opinion, the proved facts of science being irre¬
concilable with some of the more rigidly narrow dogmas based
upon the letter rather than upon the spirit of true religion.
At Belfast, last year, Professor Tyndall gave more force to
this relaxing influence than had ever been previously done .
[ from the presidential chair, the result being that every preacher
in Belfast attacked him from the pulpit on the following Sun¬
day, and later on all the clerical influence of the United King¬
dom was brought to bear upon his devoted head, no doubt to his
own pleasure rather than otherwise, for the storm and the
tempest are more to his taste than sailing in smooth water.
Although he may attempt to lead in a line of action of this
kind, a practically-minded body of men with materialistic ten¬
dencies, like many of those comprising the British Association,
may not of necessity follow; hence in Bristol this year a
reaction is apparent. The mutual relations of theology and
science have as yet been ignored here as topics of discussion,
and the presidential address of Sir John Hawkshaw dealt so
purely with matters of pounds, shillings, and pence, with road¬
making and irrigation, and kept the minds of the listeners in
such close contact with mother earth as to give no play to any
of the nobler aspirations of the human mind, which has an innato
love for higher things than manipulating mud in wheelbarrows
to make roads, or in blast furnaces to make iron, or in innume¬
rable other ways to make gold. The address was of the earth,
earthy, and on that ground met the approval of many members
of the British Association—of those who would rather be classed
as materialists than as transcendentalists.
Will this line of action, taken intuitively and without con¬
certed arrangement, continue ? If it does, it will be from the
pressure brought to bear by sound judgment, and not from
inclination, for men who are constantly unravelling the good
and the marvellous laws of God, as displayed in the phenomena
of the material universe, in the depths of their own hearts often
pause to speculate on the nature of their Author ; for most men
of science have outgrown the vulgar taste for wealth, and not a
few of them the somewhat higher love of fame and power.
Moreover, their dearly-bought experience has proved to them
that the elements of personal happiness are not to be found
solely in a deep knowledge of physics. Hence one and all are
constrained to pause now and then to ponder upon the nature
and laws of the human soul, its origin and its destiny.
These reflections have not only been prompted by the cir¬
cumstance that scientific men here are inclined to class their
ex-President as an idealist, all the time that the orthodox world
.'is attacking him as a materialist, but that all the elements were
present yesterday, in Section A, to bring these deeper questions
to the surface in an exciting manner, had the programme or
I sound judgment rendered such a course possible. Dr. Balfour
Sept. 3, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
Stewart, the President of Section A, is one of the' anonymons
authors of the book entitled The Unseen Universe, which
recently has been so warmly criticised both in scientific and
religious periodicals. With a deep knowledge of physical
science—so deep that he has been selected to write standard
educational scientific works for the Clarendon Press series at
Oxford—he combines a strong belief in many of the points of
the most orthodox creeds, and has done his best to substantiate
those views in The Unseen Universe. Professor Clifford, who
from the • point of uncompromising materialism attacked the
book violently in the Fortnightly Revieio, was present among
the listeners yesterday; and at the same time Professor
Tyndall, who has an idealistic tone of mind, although he does
not endorse the points of creed supported by Dr. Stewart, was
on the platform. Hence it is evident that had these subjects
come up, in which everybody is interested, but to which the
British Association this year may not be inclined to give atten¬
tion, elements were present in the Physical Science Section to
evolve an exceedingly warm debate.
THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS OP THE ORIGIN OP THE EARTH.
The Bristol Post of last Monday published the fol¬
lowing remarks on the nebular hypothesis of the origin
of the earth :—
Much has been said from presidential chairs at various sec¬
tions of the British Association during the past week about the
doctrines of evolution and of continuity, for the tendency of the
scientific mind is to regard the universe, both in its mental and
material aspects, as in process of growth, new conditions and new
phenomena being evolved from the old under fixed irrevocable
laws. This line of thought tends also to ascribe the great
cosmical changes of the past entirely to the action of forces
which are still at work, and to exclude all idea of the interven¬
tion of miracle or abnormal intelligent action. The nebular
hypothesis of the origin of the earth, which was endorsed in
Lieutenant-General Strachey’s presidential address to the
Geographical Section, assumes that a mass of nebulous matter
once occupied rather more than the whole area now covered by
our sun and all its attendant planets; that as this matter con¬
densed and the particles fell together, great heat was of neces¬
sity evolved; and that certain fused masses then assumed a
globular form, flattened at the poles; in short, became planets.
The sun is all that is left in an active state of the original
nebula: even he is supposed to be still contracting, and the
hypothesis assumes that after the lapse of untold ages he will
cool down and. roll a blackened ball through space, for it is con¬
tended that the solar system, like everything else in nature, has
within itself the seeds of decay. The nebular hypothesis
further assumes that as each hot planet gradually cooled, a
crust formed upon its external surface, and that, so far as our
globe is concerned, after rain and river began to act upon the
old igneous rocks, low forms of vegetation and of animal life
began; these were succeeded by higher forms, until by this pro¬
cess of evolution man at last appeared upon the scene, and
began to take his part in the eventful drama of life.
There is plenty of collateral evidence in support of the
nebular hypothesis. The size of the sun being known, it is
also mathematically known that if it were a solid globe of coal,
freely supplied with oxygen, it would burn itself out in a com¬
paratively short time ; so, putting all the evidence together, it
is very clear that the heat of the sun is not due to common
combustion. Stones and meteorites falling into it at planetary
velocities would generate an enormous amount of heat by the
force of impact; but although this source of heat is undoubtedly
present to some extent, the general conclusion is that there is
not a sufficient supply of such stony food to counterbalance the
full amount of heat given off by the sun daily, so the general
idea is that the sun is a hot body slowly cooling. As to the
planets, there is a limited amount of evidence that Jupiter is
still very hot, and Mars somewhat cold. So far as our own
earth is concerned, the deeper we go below the level where
surface changes in temperature cease to operate, the hotter it
gets; and if the heat increases in the same ratio at depths
which man cannot reach, there is heat enough at a few score
miles below the surface to keep granite and all the metals
known to man in a state of fusion. The temperature increases
at the rate of about one degree Fahrenheit for every 50 or 60 feet
of increased depth. As the earth cools it contracts, the result
being a series of tangential thrusts, which crumple up moun¬
tain ranges. Mountains are rarely formed by direct upheaval,
but in most cases by this crumpling action ; in this way was
the Snowdon range formed in the neighbouring Principality of
Wales,
Materialists dwell complacently on the strong evidence in
favour of the evolution hypothesis, but do not like to have
their own arguments pushed a little further, for then incon¬
venient questions may arise. Where did the original nebulous
matter come from, and who placed the particles asunder before
they began to fall together ? Suppose our solar system to be
dead, the planets swallowed up in the sun, and the sun reduced
to a cold cinder, is that the miserably contemptible end of
creation, and cannot the Power which has produced the present
living universes of intelligent beings do so again ? It may be
that the general conclusions of physicists about the nature of
the material universe are right, but that the material universe
as seen by man is but a very small portion of creation.
PREHISTORIC MAN—A CURIOUS “ CREATURE ”—THE MENTAL AND
SPIRITUAL DEVELOPMENT OF PRIMEVAL MAN.
The same article goes on to say :—
This evolution theory naturally leads to the consideration of
the exciting problem of the ape origin of man. Evidence of the
gradual progress of man from the savage to the civilised state
is seen everywhere, not only in our own country—in which our
forefathers once clothed themselves with thin coats of paint, and
not much else—but all over the globe. There is, however, one
striking case of apparent retrogression from civilisation, in the
decadence of the art and culture of ancient Greece; neverthe¬
less, the advanced stage reached by that empire seems not to
have been lost, but to have been scattered throughout Europe.
Ingenious and amusing speculations have been made about
our assumed earliest forefathers. One is, that as the ape became
studious by excess of reading, so much mental work in a sitting
posture gradually wore off his tail; this problem, it is true, has
never been considered by scientific men, so some person with an
inquiring turn of mind is at liberty to put it to the President of
the Anthropological Department. Colonel Lane Fox, in a very
clever lecture recently delivered at the Royal Institution on “ The
Evolution of Culture,” while dwelling upon the Subject of the
manufacture of flint arrow-heads by primitive man, said:—
“ The ape employs both sticks and stones as missiles, and as hammers to
crack the shells of nuts. But we have no evidence that he ever selects
special forms for special uses. The arts therefore afford us a clearly defined
starting point for the commencement of culture.
“ To go in search of a particular form of stick or stone in order to apply
it to a particular use would require greater effort of the will in fixing atten¬
tion continuously on the matter in hand than is found to exist amongst the
lower animals, except in cases of instinct, which term, I understand to
mean an inherited congenital nervous organism, which adapts the mind to
the ready reception of experience of a particular kind. But this instinct
does not exist in the case in question; there is no tool-making instinct; our
tool has to be evolved through reason and experience, without the aid of
any special organism for the purpose.
“ The process we have to assume, therefore, is that, in using stones as
hammers, they would occasionally split. In using certain stratified rocks
this would occur frequently, and so force itself on the attention of the
creature. The creature going on hammering, it would force itself on his
notice that the sharp fractured end was doing better work than before. It
would be perceived that there were hard things and soft things, that the
hard things split the stone, and the soft things were cut by it; and so there
would grow up in the mind an association of ideas between striking hard
things and splitting, and striking soft things and cutting, and also a
sequence by which it would be perceived that the fracture of the stone was
a necessary preliminary to the other ; and in the course of many genera¬
tions, during which the internal organism of the mind grew in harmony
with this experience, the creature would be led to perform the motions
which had been found effectual in splitting the stone before applying it to
the purposes for which it was to be used.”
Note how judiciously Colonel Fox avoids expressing an
opinion about the identity of his “ earliest ancestor; ” he calls
him neither an ape nor a savage, but a “ creature,” somewhat
as vulgar wealth, when in search of a governess, advertises
neither for a young “ lady ” nor a young “ woman,” but for a
young “ person,” as a judicious mean between two extremes of
expression.
Awkward questions may be put as to the reliability of the
speculation about the ape origin of man. For instance, there
are plenty of monkeys to be had, so why does not the Anthro¬
pological Institute buy a few, to try to develop them or their
descendants into noble savages, and to teach them when in the
“ creature ” stage how to make flint arrow-heads ? Science
contends that it has no cause to be afraid of putting its specu¬
lations to the test of experiment, and the perfect fairness of the
one now suggested cannot be denied. Then, again, if men came
from monkeys, how is it that neither geologists nor anatomists
can produce the “ missing link ? ” The oldest skeletons of
primeval man are very slightly more ape-like in type than the
man of to-day ;in short, nothing resembling the missing link
has yet been found. Once, however, a jawbone about half way
between that of a man and a monkey was dug up in the presence
of Lord Talbot de Malahide, in one of the Belgian bone caves,
and it caused more excitement in the Anthropological Society
112
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 3,. 1875.
than would the production of the identical jawbone used as an
offensive weapon by Samson of old.
Perhaps this brief notice of some of the well-authenticated as
well as of some of the wildest speculations of scientific men
cannot better be closed than by quoting from Gerald Massey’s
essay on Spiritualism, the hope that those who are searching in
the drift of the floods of the fore-world for their long-lost grand¬
father of earth, may unexpectedly succeed in finding their
Father in heaven.
THE GKADTJAL DEVELOPMENT OF CIVILISATION.
Last Friday the Anthropological Department of the British
Association met at the Royal Hotel, the Assembly-room being
crowded. Professor Rolleston, M.A., M.D., F.R.S., F.S.A., de¬
livered his presidential address, and commenced by referring to
a recent visit he had paid to the Somersetshire caves; he then
proceeded to speak of Polynesia and Australasia, which were
just now rendered doubly interesting by our recent acquisition
of Fiji. No question could be of closer concernment than that
of the possibility of rescuing the inhabitants of Polynesia from
that gradual sliding into extinction which some writers appeared
to acquiesce in as the natural fate of such races. If they did
slide into extinction it was owing to distinct causes, such as were
thus poetically described by Job :—“ For want and famine they
were solitary, fleeing into the wilderness in former times desolate
and waste. Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper-
roots for their meat. They were driven forth from among men
(they cried after them as after a thief) to dwell in the cliffs of
the valleys, in caves of the earth, and in the rocks ; among the
bushes they brayed, under the nettles they were gathered
together. They were children of fools, yea, children of base
men; they were viler than the earth ” (Job, chap. xxx. vers. 3-8).
I opine (said the speaker) that these unhappy savages must have
wasted away under these conditions; and that there is no need,
with such actual verra caussa at hand, to postulate the working
of any mysterious agency, any inscrutable poisonous action of
the breath of civilisation. What is mysterious to me is not
civilisation, but the fact that people who are in relation with it
dp not act pp to its behests. (Hear, hear.) And what is the
mystery to me is not how an epidemic can, when introduced
amongst helpless Polynesians, work havoc, but how .it is that
epidemics should be allowed to do so here in England from time
to time. (Hear, hear.) We are but some four years away from the
last small-pox epidemic, of the management, or rather misman¬
agement, of which I had myself some little opportunity of taking
stock; and what we saw then in England renders it a little
superfluous to search for recondite causes to account for depopu¬
lation in countries without Local Boards. (Hear, hear, and
laughter.) You owe much in Bristol to your able, energetic,
and eminently successful officer of health, Dr. David Davies.
(Applause.) I hope he may favour us with his views upon this
very interesting subject, and may, knowing, as he well does, how
much energy and knowledge are required for the reduction of a
rate of mortality, tell us how much wickedness, perversity, and
ignorance are necessary for increasing such a rate, whether in
Great or Greater Britain. I think that he will tell us that what is
mysterious is not the power of the principles of action I have just
mentioned, but the toleration of them. Such, at least, are my views.
Of the possible curative application of some of the leading
principles of modern anthropology to some of the prevalent
errors of the day, I should be glad to be allowed to say a few
words. The most important lesson as regards the future—I
do not say the immediate future—which the modern study
of human progress (for such all men who think, except the
Duke of Argyll, are now agreed is the study of anthropology),
is the folly and impossibility of attempting to break abruptly
with the past. This principle is now enforced with persistent
iteration from many anthropological platforms; and I cannot
but think it might advantageously be substituted in certain
portfolios for the older maxim, “ Whatever is certainly new is
certainly false,” a maxim which seems at first sight somewhat
like it, but which, as being based on pure ignorance of the past,
and teaching only distrust of the future, is really quite different
from it. I am not sure that Prichard ever put forward the
former of these two doctrines, though it is just the doctrine
which would have commended itself to his large, philosophical,
many-sided, well-balanced judgment. He died in 1848, the
very year which, perhaps, of all save one in history, and. that
one the year 1793 (a year in which he was yet a child), showed
in the most palpable way* the absurdity of attempting to make
civilisation by pattern, and of hoping to procure a wholesome
future in any other way than that of evolution from the past.
What have been called the senile, what could equally well have
been called the cynical ethics of pessimism, had not in Prichard’s
time found an advocate in this country; indeed, so far as I have
observed, they are of a more recent importation than most
other modern heresies. I do not deny that at times it is
possible to give way to certain pressing temptations to think
that we are living in a certainly deteriorated and a surely dete¬
riorating age, and that it is hopeless and useless to set up, or
look up to, aspirations or ideals. When, for example, we take
stock of the avidity with which we have all of us within the
last twelve months read the memoirs of a man whom one of his
reviewers has called a “high-toned aristocrat,” but whom I
should call by quite another set of epithets, we may think
that we are not, after all, so much the better for the three thou¬
sand years which separate us from the time when it was consi¬
dered foul play for a man to act the part of a familiar friend, to
eat of another man’s bread, and then to lay wait for him. Or
can we, in these days, bear the contrast to this miserable
spectacle of mean treachery and paltry disloyalty which is
forced upon us in the same history, by the conduct of the
chivalrous son of Zeruiah, who, when he had fought against
Rabbah and taken the city of waters, sent for his king, who had
tarried in Jerusalem, lest that city should thenceforward bear the
name, not of David, hut of Joab ? Or again, as I have been asked,
have we got very far above the level of sentiment and sympathy
which Helen, an unimpeachable witness, tells us the Trojan
Hector had attained to, and manifested in his treatment of her—
“ With tender feeling and with gentle words ? ’*
Would the utterances of any modem epic poet have so sorely
brought tears into the eyes of the noble-hearted boy depicted by
Mr. Hughes, as the passage of Homer just alluded to, and
characterised by him “ as the most touching thing in Homer,
perhaps in all profane poetry put together ? ” What answer can
be made to all this by those who maintain that the old times
were not better than these, who maintain the doctrine of pro¬
gress, and hold that man has been gradually-improving from the
earliest times, and may be expected to go on thus advancing in
the future ? An answer based upon the employment of simple
scientific method, and upon the observance of a very simple
scientific rule—upon, to wit, the simple method of takihg
averages, and the simple rule of enumerating all the circum¬
stances of the case. Noble actions, when we come to count
them up, were not, after all, so very common in the olden times,
and side by side with them there existed, and indeed flourished,
practices which the moral sense of all civilised nations has now
definitely repudiated. It is a disagreeable task, that of learning
the whole truth; but it is unfair to draw dark conclusions as to
the future, based on evidence drawn from an exclusive contem¬
plation of the bright side of the past.
EHABDOMANCY AND BELOMANGY.
Last Friday, at the Anthropological Department of the British
Association, Miss A. W. Buckland, M.A.I., read a paper on these
subjects. She contended that rhabdomancy is still practised in
England in certain localities, and that it is a survival of a very
ancient superstition, originating in the use of rods as symbols of
power. She considered that the arts of magic and divination
were not of Aryan origin, but a remnant of the Turanian or pre-
Aryan fai.th, which once overspread the world, this being proved
by their present existence among aboriginal non-Aryan races,
and may, perhaps, even be used as a test of race, so that those
who in Somersetshire and Cornwall are said to possess the power
of divination by the rod may possibly have some remote affinity
with the aboriginal inhabitants of Britain. Belomancy, or divi¬
nation by marked arrows, said to be of Semitic origin, was prac¬
tised in Babylon, Judsea, and Arabia, and traces of it may still
be found in folk tales of Russia and Siberia.
The subject of Spiritualism did not come up this
year in Bristol. Mr. Crookes arrived in Bristol on
Tuesday, and returned to town last Wednesday evening,
but read no paper on any subject during his stay. The
Bristol meeting of the British Association has been an
exceptionally quiet one.
Mr. Dale Owen.—Dr. G-. Bloede, in a letter from
New York to the editor of Psychic Studies on the subject of
Mr. Dale Owen’s insanity, quotes the words of the great Ger¬
man thinker, Lessing: “ He who on certain subjects never loses
his reason, has none to lose.” Bloede is of opinion that, so far
from Spiritualism being the cause of Mr. Owen’s misfortune,
there is every appearance of its being due to his writings on
theological subjects, to which he had latterly devoted a large
amount of time and labour, having on one occasion written
during four consecutive hours at night in his bed.
Sept. 3, 1875.
113
THE SPIBITUALIST.
A STORY OF A PROPHETIC DREAM.
“ Fanny,” said a manly voice from the further corner of the
room, as we sat talking of Spiritualism and dream-warnings,
M you remember that pretty girl who used to visit at Aunt
Dora’s in Beacon-street, when you were a child. She certainly
had no air of being gifted with second sight; and yet I can tell
you of something connected with her that is totally inexplicable
by any known laws that govern the universe. Some years ago
I went into Aunt Dora’s one winter’s night just before dinner,
and found aunty in great distress. Old John, her coachman,
had gone off suddenly on one of his periodical sprees, and she
had no one to send to the station to meet Miss S-—, who was-
going to pay a long-talked-of visit.
“‘Aunty,’ I said, ‘don’t fret; I will go with pleasure.’ I
easily set aside her objection—that I had never seen the ex¬
pected guest—and after asking her to describe Miss S -, I
hurried off, reaching the station just in time to see the long
passenger train come in. I walked quickly through the cars,
and had little or no difficulty in finding Miss S . Prompt,
however, as I flattered myself I had been in my successful
efforts, some one was before me, and as I reached the young
lady I found her greeting with no little agitation my old friend
Phil Andrews. I waited for a moment before either of them
noticed me, and then going forward introduced myself to the
lady, and was kindly received by her.
“ I'saw enough, however, in the brief moments we three stood
together, to convince me that neither of them would have com¬
plained of Aunt Dora, had she neglected to send for her guest.
I was afterwards told that M^ss S and Phil were engaged,
and only waited until prudence permitted them to marry. All
these facts, however, were at that time only guessed at by me,
and had I known them I certainly could not have found therein
any explanation of the state of painful agitation into which Miss
S was evidently plunged.
“‘What is it, sweetheart?’ I heard Phil whisper tenderly.
‘ Are you ill ? ’
“‘No, no,’ she answered huskily. ‘I am foolish and nervous.’
“ ‘ Has any one dared to insult you ? ’ asked Phil, with a
ferocious air.
“ ‘Indeed, no,’ said Miss S ; ‘ it is only the old story.’
“ Phil looked troubled and annoyed, but said no more, and
Miss S , turning away silently, struggled for composure.
The luggage was at last found, and we all soon stood in my
aunt’s warmed, well-lighted, and flower-scented rooms.
“ Aunty received Miss S with loving arms, and I heard
her say, ‘ Well, dearie, has all gone well with you to-day ? ’
“ That something definite was intended by the question was
certain from the earnestness of the girl’s tone as she answered:
‘ Aunt Dora ’—all young people called her aunt—‘ I could never
have summoned courage to travel by rail to-day had it not been
to visit you.’
“Phil took his leave, and Miss S , accompanied by her
hostess, soon went to her own apartment, my aunt begging me
to remain until she came down again, which, however, was not
until I had grown very tired of waiting for her.
“ Aunty came in with a worried expression on her gentle
face.
“ ‘ Were I in the least superstitious,’ she said, as she took the
easy chair I had drawn toward the fire for her,’ I should implore
Miss S never to put her foot in a railway car again. I must
tell you, Phil, the strangest story. I don’t know whether to call
it a dream or a trance. You will doubtless put it down as
merely imagination; it is nevertheless true that for years Miss
S has never travelled by train without having a most singular
dream. The dream in itself is singular from its vividness ; but
more singular from the fact that in its many repetitions the
details never vary.”
“ ‘ But,’ I exclaimed with, I admit, lamentable lack of gal¬
lantry, ‘ why in the name of wonder is Miss S so stupid as
to go to sleep in the cars if their motion or their noise gives her
bad dreams ?’
“ ‘ She does not really sleep,’ cried my aunt energetically;
‘ she is' I think, in a mesmeric trance.’
“ ‘ Pshaw! ’ I answered; “ that is all nonsense. Let us hear
the dream, however.’
“ And my aunt, prefacing the story with the entreaty that
Miss S should never know that the subject had been men¬
tioned to me, went on to say that Miss S  could only be
induced to give a vague description of noise, hurry, and con¬
fusion, of pain and anguish, not as endured by herself, but as
going on about her. From all this -confusion, however, soon
emerged one central figure, and that a woman’s head, crowned
by a braid of blonde hair fastened by knots of black velvet. This
head seemed to be elevated above a surging crowd, and to be
borne slowly past the windows of the car. ‘ Of course,’ said my
aunt, ‘ I told her that she had fallen asleep, and that she had
dreamed of some tragic event in the French Revolution—of the
Princess Lamballe, perhaps.
. “ ‘ At the same time,’ continued my superstitious aunt, ‘ I
could not but shudder as I glanced at her own fair hair, and the
knots of black velvet that adorned it.
“ ‘ My dear boy,’ she continued, with a reproachful look at
my unimpressed, smiling countenance, f you must remember
that this dream or trance, or whatever you please to call it, is
not a thing that has occurred once or twice, but dozens of times
in the last five years. Remember, too, that Miss S  has
never had any fear of an accident to herself—that she does not
regard the dream as any premonition, or indeed as in any way
personal, but dreads its recurrence only as a shock to her
nerves.’
“ ‘ But, aunty,’ I questioned, ‘ is the head seen but once in
each dream ? And whose are the features of the face ?
“‘The head,” answered my aunt gravely, “is carried on a
pike asjtwere, many times to and fro.^Or, as Miss S -describes
the scene, a procession of heads all alike, and giving the im¬
pression of being one and the same, are borne slowly past the
windows of the car, in the glare of torches. The poor child
has never seen the features, for the face is always covered
by a delicate, half transparent handkerchief, in the corner of
which is a coronet aijid cipher of delicate embroidery. Miss S 
says that she is conscious of a vivid curiosity at each recur¬
rence of this dream, only as to the cipher on the handkerchief;
she never thinks whose features it veils.
“ ‘ I dare not,’ continued my aunt, ‘ counsel her never to
travel by rail, lest I should inspire her with fears which hitherto
she has never felt. For, alas! I feel absolutely certain that
some fearful accident will happen to her.’
“ ‘ Some fearful accident will happen to me,” I said, laughing,
‘ if I sit longer by this too tempting fire. I must be off and to
bed, for I have a long journey before me to-morrow.’
“ The next day I went south, and was detained there week
after week. Spring, in fact, reached Boston before I did. Of
course I at once went to call on Aunt Dora, whom I found
rather out of spirits and lonely, as Miss S t had left her a
day or two before, having been suddenly summoned to the far
West by an invalid sister.
“ While we sat talking in the soft, dusky twilight the servant
entered with the evening paper. I took it from his hand, and,
carelessly opening it, my eye fell upon the heading, ‘ Fearful
Railroad Accident.’
“ First on the list of ‘ killed ’ was the name of Miss S .
My aunt saw my agitation, and insisted on being told its cause.
Thankful enough was I that she was not alone when the sad
intelligence reached her.
“ ‘ And Phil! ’ I said, hurriedly reading on, only to find
his name among the injured. Weeks passed before Phil was
sufficiently recovered to be brought to his mother’s house, and
a still longer time elapsed before the name of Miss S passed
his lips.
“ ‘ You remember,’ he said to me one night, breaking a long
sad silence, ‘ you remember the strange and persistent warnings
received by Christine—warnings to which she paid so little
heed, to which we were all so shamefully indifferent—but you
do not know,’ he continued, ‘ all the details of the tragedy. I
must unseal my lips to you now, for if I lie here longer, and
brood in solitude over the mystery and horror of it all, I shall
certainly go mad.’
“ In vain did I beg my poor friend to wait until he was
stronger.
“ ‘ I shall never be stronger,’ he exclaimed, ‘ until I have
spoken. You know,’ he murmured, as a convulsive shud¬
der shook the bench on which he lay, ‘ that Christine was
killed instantly, but you do not know that I was not at her
side at the moment of the accident; I was in the smoking
oar, and was not myself hurt at that time. My injuries
were received afterwards, from the falling of a burning
beam of the station house. When Miss S was found the
body was decapitated; the guillotine itself might have -done
the dreadful deed. In my anguish no thought of her dreams
came to me. But when a pitying woman’s hand veiled with
tender reverence the pale, tranquil features of my dead love,
and I saw the masses of fair hair all undisturbed, there came a
flash of memory.’ Phil was silent. At last he spoke. ‘ Give
me that desk, dear friend.’
“ Reluctantly, and with many fears, I gave it him. He took
from it with trembling, emaciated fingers,’ a small package.
Reverently opening it, he unfolded a delicate handkerchief. In
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 3, 1875.
the corner was the coronet, under it the cipher—all as had been
foreshadowed to Miss S .
“ ‘ Yes,’ said Phil’s trembling voice, ‘ here it is. That day we
had noticed and admired a French woman evidently of rank
whose seat was near ours, and she it was who completed the
dream’s fulfilment.’
“ As Phil uttered these words his sister entered the room with
peremptory injunctions to silence.
“ I was only permitted to clasp his hand in warm sympathy,
and to say good night to him, as I now do to you all.” And the
speaker hastily left the room.—Bnstol Mercury.
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS IN
MANCHESTER.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
Heakino that Dr. Monck was out of health, I invited
him to spend a short time with me in Manchester.
When he came he was very prostrate and weak, but I
am happy to say that after he had been with us a week
his physical strength and mediumistic power returned
in great force. As my object in inviting him was to
give him rest and quiet, the manifestations that have
occurred were impromptu and unexpected.
One evening we called at the hou^e of a mutual
friend, and in the twilight, while sitting carelessly in
the room, raps suddenly came telling us to sit round
the table, which was a four-legged one. The top was
about four feet square. I sat next Dr. Monck on the
sofa, and there were seven of us in all in the room.
The table then swayed to and fro, and rose up six feet,
and I was requested to stand beneath it, when it gently
descended and rested upon my head. I then put out
my hands and touched two of the legs, when it rose up
as high as I could follow it (about 18 inches), and again
gently descended and rested upon my head. I was then
told to stand upon the table, when it rose from four to
six inches (as near as I could tell), swayed to and fro,
and then descended to the floor. This was repeated
with all who were present (one gentleman weighed 15
stone). Dr. Monck never moved from his seat on the
sofa during the sitting.
On another occasion Dr. Monck joined our circle,
composed then of fifteen persons, when he was suddenly
controlled and went to the window, where he stood
erect, with his back to the window, which was covered
by a Venetian blind, through which there came sufficient
light from the lamps in the street for us to see every
person and object in the room. He called two gentlemen
to come and hold his feet to the floor, I taking my stand
directly opposite. Dr. Monck’s body was then elongated,
and I called out one, two, three, four, as his head
crossed the battens of the blind. He then suddenly
dropped, when the two gentlemen declared the feet had
been close to the floor all the time. The total height
he rose up was 7 inches.
Dr. Monck then sat down at the table, on which
happened to be a tumbler and decanter of water.
Taking the tumbler in his left hand, with his right
hand he took the decanter and poured water into the
tumbler till it was two-thirds full; he then gave the
tumbler to a lady on his left hand, saying, “ Pass it
round.” The company passed it from one to the other,
till coming to the tenth, a lady, he asked, “ How much
water have you in the glass ?” The reply was, “ About
half a teaspoonful,” when the lady poured out the re¬
mains on the table. Dr. Monck then asked for the
empty tumbler, and taking it in his right hand, with
the decanter in his left hand, the tumbler had actually
become two-thirds full of water in its passage from the
hands of the lady to his own. He then poured the
water back again into the decanter. This most extra¬
ordinary phenomenon took place in light sufficient for
all to see plainly. Dr. Monck then filled the tumbler
again with water, and turning it upside down with the
water inside, he gave it to the lady who sat on'his left
hand, who held it up for some seconds for all to see, in
its inverted position, and handing it to the medium he
again returned the contents to the decanter. I am at
liberty to say that all the fifteen ladies and gentlemen
—who are respectable, God-fearing people—will testify
to the above facts, and, if need be, furnish their names
and addresses.
On Sunday evening, August 22nd, the meeting was
held at my house, and was of a purely devotional
character. During the meeting, Dr. Monck was con¬
trolled by Samuel, his chief guide, who gave a brilliant
orative description of the “ Temple of Truth.” The
tone and manner in which it was uttered were truly
majestic, and none who were privileged to listen will
ever forget that magnificent oration ; the unfolding of
the mysteries of that glorious temple by the great law
of “ Correspondences ” (which is the concord existing
between spirit and nature, and of which Dr. Monck
himself is ignorant) was truly marvellous. On our
congratulating Samuel on the success of the effort, he
replied, “ I have to express the pleasure it has afforded
me to be present with you this evening. The thoughts
that have been uttered through me and my medium are
due to the inspiration of One who is much higher than
me, and for whom I have been only the instrument; I
have to testify that I have been able to ascend one step
higher and my medium half-a-step, and neither will
ever recede.”
Much more was said and done at the various private
meetings Dr. Monck attended while with us; at one
he was informed that his mediumship would assume a
different character, when the purely physical manifes¬
tations would become subordinate to a much higher and
more elevated order, so that I doubt not his future
career will be honourable and useful, and that, with
even greater power than heretofore, he will be used as
an instrument for ushering in the spiritual power and
life which is to characterise the new age and dis¬
pensation.
Higher Broughton, Manchester,
August 26th, 1875.
THE FUTURE OF SPIRITUALISM.
The road to experiment is opened; the oft-derided
“ table-turning ” will become the means of solving the
deepest problems of man’s nature, of uprooting all
superstition, but of reinstating much that has been
classed as superstition amongst the natural processes of
a magic creative activity in the spirit of man. That
ill-reputedtable-turning,” a word that every man of
culture now fears to utter in a believing sense, will one
day aid both the philosopher and the psychologist
in the explanation of their problems, and the physicist
will be compelled unwillingly to those experiments
which to-day are revolting to his inner nature. The
first step is as yet scarcely taken, for experiment is
difficult, the conditions of success are unknown to us,
and it is not easy to seize the exact points and moments
at which it is most necessary to watch for and to arrest
any possible hidden error and deception; and if even
lifeless metal only gives up reluctantly to man the
Sept. 3, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
secret of its working, much more obstinately does the
living organism keep a tight seal upon its mysteries.”
“ Mysteriously in garish day
Does nature hide herself, her beauty veiling;
And when she wills not secrets to betray,
Nor screws nor levers will be found availing.”—Faust.
—Schindler’s Magic Life of the Spirit, 1857.
SHOOTING AT A “ SPIRIT.”
Ip we may believe the St. Louis Republican of August 10th,
Spiritualism has been put to rather a severe test at an exhibi¬
tion which took place at the concert hall of that place, when Mr.
W. 0. Clark, a St. Louis medium, permitted one of his mate¬
rialisations to stand the test of a rifle shot. It has for some time
been contended by the sceptical that the true way to prove the
spiritual nature of these phenomena was with a shot-gun. If a
face smiling through an unglazed window could receive a charge
of shot and still smile, it was thought the test might be accepted
as proof at least that the face was not human. The exhibition
grew out of a challenge to Mr. Clark from Henry Timkens, a
carriage-maker. Mr. Timkens offered 50 dols. for the privilege
of loading and firing a rifle at a face which Mr. Clark should
produce at the aperture of a cabinet, the medium to disrobe
before entering the cabinet and put on clothes which the
challenger should produce. After this the challenger was to
fasten the medium to the bottom of the cabinet. This was done
to the satisfaction of every one present. After the usual noisy
demonstrations within the cabinet, the story runs : “ Suddenly
the curtain moved aside and the face appeared. There it was,
a pale, ghostly countenance, that looked as though it might have
belonged to a girl of seventeen at some previous time of the
world’s history. All who saw it were fairly transfixed with
astonishment. The features were perfectly clear and distinct,
being illuminated by a soft light. There was not the slightest
movement of a muscle or an eyelid that could be distinguished.
While all were eagerly gazing at the vision there was an ex¬
plosion that caused a rude interruption to the imaginative
reveries the more superstitious had fallen into. As soon as the
face appeared, Mr. A. B. Cunningham, at Mr. Timkens’ request,
had coolly sighted a small rifle at it. The wide open eyes
looked almost into the muzzle of the gun without any sign of
flinching. Without the tremor of a muscle, Cunningham fired,
apparently thinking no more of shooting a couple of girls than
a Comanche would. At the shot the face remained steadfast. It
wasn’t scared, and didn’t wink. A few seconds it remained as
before, and then the curtain mysteriously slid across and
obscured it from view. After about ten minutes’ waiting the
medium asked for a glass of water. This was given him, and
in a little time after he asked to be let out. When the door was
opened he was found tied just as he was left when the doors
were first closed. The cords had evidently been strained a
little, and that was all. Everybody said it was a good thing,
and nobody could tell how it was done if the spirits didn’t do it.
The medium professed to be very much exhausted by the
exhibition, and said he wouldn’t do it again for anything. The
bullet certainly went through the aperture and through the face,
whatever it was. This was ascertained beyond a doubt by the
finding of the ball, it having passed through the back of the
cabinet and imbedded itself in a board.”—The Globe, Aug. 25.
The Athenceum recently published a shallow review of
The Spifits’ Book. The writer, however, pays- Miss Blackwell
the compliment of wishing that, instead of translating it, she
had favoured the world with some of her own spirit communi¬
cations.
Spiritualism in Brussels.—La Presse Beige gives
a lengthy and fair account of a physical seance at Brussels, with
a medium of twelve years of age. The phenomena appear to
have been similar to those occurring through Mrs. Fay’s
mediumship. The writer concludes with the following remarks:
“ Cheating was out of the question, for we were in the presence
of honourable and enlightened persons, acting in good faith.
How was it done then? We do not • know, and we shall take
care how we attempt to explain phenomena of which we do not
hold the key. Reason may reject the idea of the intervention
of spirits of the dead in our earthly affairs, and yet we can find
no explanation of the facts we have witnessed.” When the
press begins to own it does not know, and hesitates to explain,
it has already taken the first step towards knowledge,
IMPORTANT NEWS FROM PARIS.
(From our own Correspondent.')
Paris, Wednesday Night.
Buguet has filled up the cup of his treachery by
absconding from Paris, forfeiting his bail, and leaving
Leymarie and Firman to pay the full costs of the trial.
He is at present in Brussels, a place he could not have
reached without the connivance of the police. Mr.
O’Sullivan’s letter, with further details, will be pub¬
lished in full next week.
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., is travelling in Switzerland.
The sum of seven hundred francs has been contributed
by the readers of the Revue Spirite for the benefit of the
sufferers from the floods in the South of France.
The portrait of D. D. Home, by H. W. Pickersgill, R.A.,
lately presented to the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists was painted about twelve years ago, and that of Robert
Owen about forty years ago.
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy arrived at Boston on Saturday,
Aug. 14th. They are about to visit the Lake Pleasant camp
meeting, where our own medium, J. J. Morse, has been like¬
wise gaining fresh experiences.
In the Christian Spiritualist for Sept. 1st, the editor
announces the discontinuance of that journal on account of the
scanty support afforded it by those whose principles it was
intended specially to set forth, and to which it has been con¬
scientiously devoted.
A great variety of chemists seem to be springing up in
France. In a circular we find one individual designated as a
“ chemist-expert,” another as a “ chemist-hydrophast,” and a
third as “ engineer-chemist,” which is possibly a new name for
a “ Jack-of-all-trades and master of none.” Another gentle¬
man rejoices in the style of “President of the Society of In¬
dustrious Sciences.”—Chemical Revieiv.
The Revue Spirite for this month opens with an ad¬
dress to its readers, signed by A. Bourges, captain of cavalry.
The writer states that he has been requested by M. Leymarie,
on account of the adverse judgment of the Court of Appeal, to
co-operate with him in the administration of the Society and the
Revue, which he has much pleasure in accepting, holding M.
Leymarie, in common with all who know him, in the highest
esteem. On account of the press of work at the office of the
Revue, it is requested that all friends will pay their visits on
Wednesdays and Pridays only, between the hours of one and five
in the afternoon, and that all letters should be addressed to the
Society pour la continuation des oeuvres spirites d'Allan Kardec,
7, Rue de Lille.
Turning to the East.—On the subject of the Ritualistic
practice of “ facing eastwards,” a writer in the Pall Mall
Gazette says: “ No one who has attentively observed the pro-
gress of this ‘ facing ’ in divine worship among ourselves can
doubt for a moment what underlies the novelty—namely, a
superstitious reverence for the ‘ altar.’ I say ‘ altar ’ advisedly,
for whereas an intelligent Romanist will not genuflect in that
direction unless the pyx is there, their shallow copyists turn
and bow thitherward on many occasions when* the table is bare
—except, it may be, of candles, or flowers, or the unconsecrated
elements—not because it is eastward, and because they believe
such ‘ facing ’ to be symbolical of ‘ watching,’ for they praise
and pray at other times looking at all the other points of the
compass, but because it is the locality of the ‘ altar.’ Talk of
Comtism and other forms of scepticism inculcated by a grow¬
ing and influential band of free-thinkers, the clergy of the
Church of England who practise and teach such pernicious
usages as these do more to materialize the minds of their con¬
gregations, to degrade the Almighty into a fetish and Christi¬
anity into fetishism, than all the infidels and free-thinkers put
together. The emasculation of the men and the enfeeblement
of the women which this system has produced in other countries
—whenever it has not let both into infidelity—ought to be a
special warning to Englishmen to eschew materialism under the
garb of religion.”
116
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 3, 1875;
SCRAPS.
ft When thy struggling soul hath conquered,
When the path lies fair and clear,
When thou art prepared for heaven,
Thou wilt find that heaven is here.”
The Lont One.
“ Who blesses others in his daily deeds
Will find the healing that his spirit needs,
For every flower in other’s pathway strewn,
Confers its fragrant beauty on our own,’’
Magie Staff.
(ftomspnlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—I had just posted my last communication undei* the
above title, when I received a review of a book against Spiritual¬
ism “ The Revived Belief in Miracles, by Alexander Wiessner,
Leipzig, 1875.” When in Leipzig, Dr. Wittig showed me the
hook, and I eagerly seized it in order to be converted from my
errors; bqt my question, “ Has the author investigated him¬
self? ” being answered in the negative, I just as quickly closed
it again, and felt satisfied at the sign of progress in the former
simple shrugging of shoulders having given way to handsome
volumes, to combat the growing strength of Spiritualism. The
author, of course, tries to prove that the facts are of a sub¬
jective nature, and the works of our Wallace and of the Baroness
von Yay are attacked mercilessly. If I may divide the off¬
hand modes of treatment into three classes—the philosophical,
the fashionable, and the commonplace—Glass 1: Mr. Wallace,
although eminent on his own ground, has by an unconscious
turn of his mind gradually been influenced by illusions, and
has identified imaginary impressions with realities. Glass 2 :
Mr. Wallace has a liking for the wonderful and sensational, so
cleverly-conducted manifestations have outwitted him. Class
3 (to which I sometimes like to grind down humbugging with
high-sounding phases): Mr. Wallace is a donkey to lose the con¬
trol of his five senses.1 I, for my part, take such attacks, how¬
ever elegant they may be dressed up, as downright insults, if I
have to understand them as the serious products of a truly
scientific purpose. But they may as well be taken for experi¬
ments of dexterity in the art of word-constructing, a kind of
performance a la virtuoso on musical instruments, or in daring
acrobatic antics—attempts to twist and bend logical processes
into- astonishing forms. When David Strauss proved to demon¬
stration that Christ never existed, but was a purely mythical
invention, another vyriter succeeded in like manner in throwing
doubt as to whether Napoleon the First ever lived. If that
author had tested his art of persuading upon one of the old
invalids who fought under the Emperor, the answer would pro¬
bably be condensed into a sound Napoleonic box on the ear, to
bring about a conclusion. But, from another point of view,
such brilliant mental fireworks are highly entertaining, par¬
ticularly when one is standing far enough off not to get the
smell of the powder. If these my lines have a little touch of
indignation, it must be explained by my respect for Mr. Wal¬
lace’s admirable woi'ks so handled. Baroness von Vay’s book, I
hear, contains statements which are perplexing and difficult to
out-and-out Spiritualists, and may possibly have excited Mr.
Wiessner to an undue degree. Here I may point out a fault
which is overlooked too much, and interferes sadly with pro¬
gress ; I mean the over-enthusiastic reports of investigators,
the publication of details which, although harmless for the
“ pure in heart,” may be made to turn the whole account into
ridicule; for there is a far. greater amount of disposition to be¬
spatter with mud (one of the triumphs of modern Materialism)
than a simple mind is aware of. The other day I gave a paper
to a gentleman here who read a report of a seance to his friends.
I observed the effect from a distance, and found the faces now
and then expressing the closest attention, but as often inter¬
rupted by bursts of laughter, which at last got the best of it.
This did not, of course, indicate oyer-refinement on the part of
the leader and listeners, but I rightly guessed the points where
sarcasm had a chance. The kiss of a male spirit given to a
lady in the circle ; the minute description of the soft beard, lips,
perfume, etc., broke the spell, and the final effect was disas¬
trous at the time for the cause. In another report we read how
a Spiritualist flings sharp words of hatred against brother
Spiritualists, differing from him in certain views, thereby show¬
ing plainly that the spiritual territory has no effect on ugly
blotches of human weakness. In one paper, thoroughly power¬
ful and convincing in its columns, the mentioning of a spirit
dog will act against its message, and so we find in most
numbers of the weeklies some sore point which challenges the
ridicule of the new inquirer. If the papers are intended not
only for the experienced, but for widening the field of inquirers,
the curtailing of such dangerous details might be highly
recommended, whilst scientific accuracy miglqfc be separately
preserved. Between the witnessing and the reading of facts is
a tremendous gulf. Enthusiasm is natural and elevating on
the spot of its creation, but loses much of its flavour in the
press, leaving often only those fragments which are welcome to
the caricaturist. Therefore, if reports are to be published
with an eye to business (in the noblest sense), let my sug¬
gestions not pass unnoticed. Where plenty of actual facts
abound, such caution would scarcely be thought of, but in
countries where theoretical battling precedes experience, a
calm, simple description of facts tells more than glbwingly-
coloured recitals, which so often kill the kernel of truth by the
fictious-looking drapery around them.
In conclusion, the predominance of love for theories where
practical handling would shorten the way to knowledge, is
characteristic, of many German students. I may try to shape
this state of things into a little picture. Suppose two German
professors and an Englishman discover a new tree somewhere
(the reader may invent the country for himself). The very
peculiar structure and twisting of the branches surprise them
equally. They speculate as to the form the root must neces¬
sarily present. They go home with drawings of that particular
tree, write volumes (the German professors), and get into con¬
troversies about the most probable formation of the root; and
for a long time these theories brilliantly shine as the out¬
pourings of master minds on the horizons of scientific amateurs.
But the Englishman finished his account of tree and root long
ago, for he took a shovel, dug up the ground, and inquired a
little in the proper quarter. So Germans speculate, gesticulate,
and subjectiviza with great pomp here, whilst a long time ago
the facts were known at 61, Lamb’s-conduit-street, 15, South¬
ampton-row, and are now nicely sorted and sifted at 38, Great
Russell-street. We would not like all nations to be like each
other ; each has its virtues and its follies, and when we admire
the grandeur of philosophical genius, why should we ignore the
indispensable assistance of practical experimentalists in this
our cause? for they are the real originators and pioneers of the
new science. Christian Reimers.
Pontresina, Switzerland, Aug. 13th, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE NORTH OF ENGLAND.
Sir,—I herewith hand you a few notes of experiences among
Spiritualists which I have observed while travelling.
About a month ago Mr. Thomas Brown, trance and physical
medium, of Howden-le-Wear, spent a Sabbath with us while
journeying northward. We had in all four seances. I could
not, on paper, give you an idea of the nature of these addresses;
I have listened to many of our leading pulpit and platform
orators, and have never failed to mark the chief characteristics of
their power over the listeners, but I may state that for grasp of
thought, beauty of imagery, and sublimity of diction, one of
the spirits, speaking through his medium, to my taste, excels
all. I simply give this as my opinion, leaving others to judge
for themselves. It is an eternal disgrace to this grand move¬
ment that this gifted medium has to toil so hard (his occupation
being that of a coke-burner). He spoke to large audiences;
many ’local preachers and other religious persons attended the
seances, and expressed themselves inconceivably gratified.
The movement is cutting its way rapidly in this locality.
We have something like sixteen mediums under development.
Many individuals who have embraced Spiritualism are con¬
nected with the churches; some have become mediums who
previously were notorious for bad lives, and now, instead of
scenes of riot, their houses have been turned into “ Bethels,”
and family devotion instituted therein. Many are wondering
what these strange things mean. The “Devil ” theory has quite
died out here, as the changes just noticed prove its untruthful¬
ness. The “ mesmeric ” theory, however, finds acceptance with
the disciples of Bradlaugh. Amongst the mediums, male and
female, we have healers, trance, physical, and clairvoyant—in
fact, every manifestation that we see recorded in your paper
weekly.
Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton is still giving us his wonderful
and interesting experiences. Since he passed into the next life,
and we are given to know that some members of his family are
j! investigating the matter through having read our last commu-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
Sept. 3, 1875.
nication in The Medium, Sir Thomas is prepared to afford any
of them thousands of tests of his identity, if prejudice on their
part does not shut him out.* His addresses have been listened
to by numbers of highly intelligent and respectable citizens,
who have gone away charmed and satisfied.
I visited Seghill, Delival, Ohoppington, and Oskington lately,
in Northumberland, and enjoyed seances with Misses Forster
and Smith, also Messrs. R. Elliott, Scepsy, James, and a host of
other energetic spirits. The manifestation witnessed and heard
surpassed everything that I ever anticipated to meet with on
this side of the grave. Often do I exclaim “ What hath God
wrought! ” Last week I visited Cockfield, where Mr. Joseph
Briggs and his kind lady collected a few friends to let me see
what they obtained through the mediumship of Miss Suxhmers.
A moderately largo table was floated up to the ceiling, eight
feet high; books were brought on to the table, and there were
various other manifestations. I had a seance with Mr. Thomas
Fawcett, of Bishop Auckland; he is a powerful healing medium.
I also listened to a beautiful discourse from his spirit guide on
the “ Philosophy of Death.” In illustration he detailed the par¬
ticulars of the late “passing away” of one of the Darlington
friends, and showed us, philosophically, the process by which
the spirit shook itself free from the mortal coil. The address
was replete with instruction of the highest order.
William H. Robinson.
Chester-le-Street.
* As good tests of spirit identity are not often obtained, he must be a re¬
markable medium through whom they can give thousands.—Ed,
THE REINCARNATION CONTROVERSY.
Sir,—As a partisan of Allan Kardec’s exposition of the
Spiritist philosophy, I have been pained to notice the violent
hostility entertained towards it by English Spiritualists.
The subject of reincarnation seems to be the one which more
especially attracts the vehement vituperation of the believers of
the new science on this side of the Channel. And, although the
belief in reincarnation is decried, it is noteworthy that no other
theory is opposed to it; for, though English Spiritualists are
unwilling to reflect on the inherent probability of reincarnation,
yet they have no definite information as to what becomes of the
souls, during centuries of time, of those who have inhabited our
planet. It will of course be granted that they are again em¬
bodied in some world, if not in ours, for, if incarnation is neces¬
sary or useful for furthering our moral and intellectual advance¬
ment, it must be admitted that one incarnation age, and scores
of incarnations, would not be sufficient to attain that end,
especially when we consider that there can be no limit to such
advancement.
One of the reasons given for deprecating Kardec’s teachings
in this respect is, that they are merely theoretical, and not based
on physical and experimental facts. But, without wishing to
disparage the form of research adopted in England, I may be
allowed to state that notwithstanding the length of time during
which English Spiritualists have been occupied in sifting physi¬
cal and experimental phenomena, no compact philosophy has
been evolved therefrom,* and beyond the well-attested fact of
the possibility of communion between this world and the next,
wo have nothing to learn from the pursuit of the English form
of Spiritualism.
The reasons that have biassed the Continental school of
Spiritist philosophy in their belief in reincarnation are not, I
grieve to say, physical and experimental, since it would be
found difficult to place one’s hands on a person whose reincar¬
nation could be made evident to the sense, but all spirits evinc¬
ing a certain degree of mental culture who manifest on the Con¬
tinent have testified to the fact, and it is from their widespread
and concurrent testimony that the doctrine has been educed.
Moreover, Kardec merely compiled and expurgated the scat¬
tered fragments of a philosophy which was then simultaneously
Studied by many circles, societies, and families throughout the
Continent, and which only required a master hand to mould
them into a homogeneous structure.
In examining the question of reincarnation upon its merits,
independently of testimony, it should be considered that there
could be no object in passing into some other planet if we had
not been successful in progressing in this, and also that our
object being not only to progress ourselves, but to further the
progress of all we come in contact with, our fellow-beings,
animals, and the earth we dwell in, it is necessary for the suc¬
cessful results of such advancement that it should be carried
* Because we are in no hurry to advance a philosophy before we have
collected and classiSed enough facts to prove it to be true, and not a
speculation.—Ed.
out in the same plane of existence; seeing that we would be
unable to observe the far-reaching consequences of our good or
evil deeds from Jupiter, Mars, or Saturn.
Spiritualists receive every day communications from friends
and celebrated men who have entered the spirit-world one, two,
or three centuries ago. How comes it that these spirits still
hover over our earth, and are able to communicate at the
slightest notice, provided the conditions, be not unfavourable ?
There is at the present moment a spirit who is writing his ex¬
periences, through the pen of a powerful medium, and who
affects to have lived at the time of Jesus Christ.
Will it be said that after attaining a certain degree of moral
and intellectual advancement the human spirit passes to another
sphere ? This could be admitted if individual progress were
the sole end in view, but, on the contrary, everything tends to
confirm the belief that our advancement is indissolubly united
with that of the world we inhabit—that is, we either march in
the van, leading humanity on to brighter prospects, or lag
miserably in the rear, to be dragged along by it.
The fact of the existence in different epochs of such men as
Manco, Capac, Confucius, Cadmus, Zoroaster, Minos, Christna,
Solon, Socrates, &c., seems to prove the utility of advanced
spirits being reincarnated ; and if our faculties are no more
than the gradual result of acquired experience in relation to the
world we inhabit, we would be evidently unfit to become em¬
bodied in another world, unless that world were in an identical
moral and intellectual stage with this one; for were it more
advanced we would find our faculties totally inadequate, and
were it more backward we would be there, entirely out of our
element.
If also our humanity were not homogeneous, but composed of
desultory and unconnected elements, how could we acquire ex¬
perience in relation to our world, since it will not be denied
that the experience we attain is in relation to the sphere we
traverse, whatever others may bo in relation to other planets.
Let us fancy, for instance, an extensive estate, which in lieu of
continuing in the same, were constantly to pass into different
hands, renewed throughout.
The discovery and examination of nature’s laws has until
now placed us in possession of the fact that their simplicity is
as marvellous as their immutability. The assignment therefore
of a humanity to each globe seems to shock one’s reason as
little as that of a swarm to each hive, or a molluso to each
shell.
What more natural than that, having failed to profit by the
lessons of one incarnation, we should have to repeat it until
Our success may enable us to associate with those spirits who
are capable and willing to promote human advancement and
welfare ?
While observing at the present moment the attachment felt
by the Icelanders to their inhospitable home, which they refuse
to leave, that of the Esquimaux to theirs, can wo wonder that
spirits retain an ineradicable affection for the planet which has
been the scene of their efforts and emotions ? Gould they, un¬
mindful of the family ties that bind them to earth, share in the
life of planets so distant from the one where they have con¬
tracted them, and where perchance they are still beloved and
wept for ?
No ! The antipathy felt at first sight to this doctrine cannot
fail to wear off, as has been the case in America, and it will be
found that the fears and reluctances primarily entertained were
groundless and imaginary.
We have not to seek for what is pleasant a priori, but for
whatever is true.
French research has endeavoured, by penetrating into the
core of these matters, to avoid the question so often enunciated
in this country with regard to Spiritualism of “ Cui bono ? ” and
the information sought to be wrung at this moment by some
Spiritualists from the occult sciences may'be more effectually
met by a conscientious study of the works of Kardec.
  B. P. J.
A STRANGE AND STARTLING STORY,
Sir,—In yours of the 20th inst. you copy from The New York
Sun the details of a most remarkable seance, and, whilst with¬
holding any opinion as to the cause thereof, I cannot accept the
correspondent’s proof as decisive that the witnesses were not
psychologised. For, presuming the sitters to have been psycho-
logised, or biologised—
1. Why not the lady sleeping in the other part of the house, if
her presence there was known to the operator ?
2. If the operator did not know of the presence of a third
party in the house, it is not by any means an unusual thing
whilst operating on one sensitive to similarly affect unawares
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 3, 1875,
another in sympathy with the same, although in another room
or building even a long distance away.
3. The lady referred to might have heard the music ; but
this is no proof whatever that the sitters in another room were
not psychologised as to who played the guitar.
Knowing a little of Mesmerism, as well as of Spiritualism, I
strongly object to see credit given to either for any seance in
which there is the slightest doubt as to the cause thereof.
George Button.
2, Albert-road, Dalston, 23rd August, 1875.
TEST EXPERIMENTS.
Sir,—As you have declared your publication open for the
free discussion of the subject of which it is the organ, you will
perhaps allow the insertion of a letter from one who, although
at present sceptical, takes a lively interest in the discovery of
truth.
I have read the recent volumes of Messrs. Wallace and
Crookes, and have no hesitation in saying that if one-tenth part
of the phenomena therein referred to can be verified, modern
Spiritualists will have the honour of having furnished the most
important addition to human knowledge which it has received
since the commencement of the Christian era. The first thing,
however, is to establish the truth of the phenomena in the eyes
of a sceptical world. We all know the marvellous dexterity of
practitioners in legerdemain, and how difficult it is to detect
their modus operandi, and this renders extreme strictness in our
examinations of all Spiritualistic exhibitions necessary, if scien¬
tific men are to be convinced.
Feeling unsatisfied in this respect, after perusing the works
of Messrs. Wallace and Crookes, I wrote to those eminent gentle¬
men, suggesting the necessity, not of elaborate experiments
such as some of those founded by Mr. Crookes, but rather of
the simplest possible experiments, because these can be much
more easily seen, understood, and guarded from fraud than any
performed by means of elaborate machinery, mysterious
cabinets, or hanging drapery. I suggested that, for instance, a
certain small number of competent inquirers should write short
sentences and place them in separate sealed envelopes exactly
similar in external appearance. If these, or any of them, could
be read, it is evident that such an exhibition of power would,
or at least should, at once satisfy even the most sceptical
physical philosophers, and convert them into valuable and in¬
fluential believers.
I suggested also that the inquirers should place a common
lead pencil, say on a folded newspaper laid on a table, and
carefully covered with a fine wire gauze cover, or, better still,
with a glass shade, after which the Spiritualistic medium may be
admitted. If the pencil in these circumstances could be seen
to raise itself even half an inch off the table, and give a few
distinct taps; or if it could be made to write a single word
on the paper, this would satisfy all honest spectators, who
assuredly would not refuse then and there to certify as to
what they had seen.
I write at present not from any desire to throw discredit
on Spiritualism, but with the honest view of inducing some
one or more of its professors to submit to a few thoroughly
testing experiments; and surely it is reasonable to expect
that if the great marvels are performed of which we read,
there should be no difficulty in obtaining the performance of
experiments so very simple as those I have suggested.
Egbert S. Wyld.
Oraggan, Grantown, Strathspey, 17th Aug., 1875.
DR. TYNDALL ON THE NATURE OF THINGS.
Sir,—^Whatever may be Dr. Tyndall’s opinions, or however
foolish we may think them, we must be sure that we do not
misrepresent them. Now, if Dr. Gully will turn to Tyndall’s
lecture on “The Scientific Use of the Imagination,” he will
find the theory of evolution from “ a fiery cloud ” set forth
with great clearness, but his own conclusion is given in these
words: “ Surely these notions represent an absurdity too mon¬
strous to bo entertained by any sane mind. Let us, however,
give them fair play,” and he thinks that there was a primeval
union between matter and spirit as one nature, and says,
“What God has joined together let no man put asunder,” or
suppose one side of the created fact to be less noble than the
other.
If Dr. Tyndall has expressed himself differently elsewhere,
it is for him to reconcile the contradiction, since to hold con¬
tradictory opinions is the same as having no opinion at all.
I think it clear that he does refer all effects in nature to
matter—or call it substance ; but as he speaks also of creation,
he is a materialist in one sense, but is not an atheist, and would
perhaps agree with Lord Bacon that it is a nobler idea of God
to suppose that, after creating matter endowed with all the
ability to work out His will and purpose by its own innate
nature and capacity and eternal laws, He then rested from
further interference. Under this conception there would be
the Divine sanction for materialism, and even for the theory of
evolution, yes, even from a “ fiery cloud,” Dr. Tyndall’s above
opinion notwithstanding.
But how Mr. Wallace reconciles his particular theory of evo¬
lution by natural selection with the view he takes in respect to
the facts of Spiritualism I never could understand, and much
less his attributing mind and instinct to inherited experiences.
But I say with Tyndall, “ fair play ” to all theories, only men
must be consistent and carry out their premises to their logical
conclusions. There is nothing else for it if we would ever
escape an eternal confusion, and make real progress both in
fact, and philosophical and scientific agreement. Tyndall said
that matter “ at bottom is essentially mystical and transcen¬
dental,” as it is said that truth lies at the bottom of a well, but
surely there is no bottom to matter, and truth is as much at the
top of the well as at the bottom or in the middle; but we must
look to history and the beginning of things, and observe the
nature of the cause in its results, and there is nothing more to
know that may be called “ mystical and transcendental.” No
one thing in nature is more wonderful than another, it being
only a question of the known and the unknown. Thought latent
in a cloud is no more wonderful than in the germ cell, since
both statements are absolutely incomprehensible.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sor-Mer.
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS AT A SEANCE.
Sir,—In continuation of my letter of the 14th inst., having
observed in 2’Ae Spiritualist some advertisements and paragraphs
relative to mesmerism, I jumped rather hastily to the conclu¬
sion that by this agency persons had been made to believe that
their departed friends and relations had reappeared in the flesh.
Not having witnessed any mesmeric phenomena, I obtained the
work on Will Ability, by Mr. Hands, and proceeded to experi¬
ment. My first experiment was successful, and a few more led
me to believe that I should prove Spiritualism to be imposture
carried on by the agency of the mesmeric influence.
Provided with this key (as I supposed) to the mysteries of
Spiritualism, I attended my first seance with a professional
medium. Arriving early, I examined the seance room, and
observed nothing suspicious. A table about twelve or fourteen
feet in length occupied the centre of the room, and upon it
were lying an iron ring, a guitar, and two cardboard tubes or
speaking trumpets. The medium entering the room, desired
the sitters to take their places, motioning me to a seat at the
end of the table opposite to that at which he sat, and leaving
the seats near him to be filled by persons who evidently were
habitues—to a stranger, a very suspicious course to adopt.
We were then desired to clasp hands, which made me still
more suspicious. However, as all the sitters (including the
medium) joined hands, there was no alternative, and I had to
complete the circle, which I did by clasping the hands of the
sitters next me in such a manner as to leave my own free
to lay hold of the individual who was about to enact the
part of spirit, although how he was to move about the room
without the knowledge of all the sitters was a puzzle to me, for
I noticed that on one side there was barely room for a man to
pass behind the sitters, and on the other side there was a sofa
behind them, and not room for a person to pass without climbing
over it; while behind my own chair, where there was more
room, I felt satisfied that a person could not pass without my
knowledge.
The circle being completed, the medium became agitated, as
if under the influence of galvanism; the light was blown out
by one of the sitters, and almost immediately the guitar was
floating about the room, touching the ceiling and the heads of
the sitters from time to time as requested, the strings twanging
as it moved, until it finally fell upon the table from a height
apparently of five or six inches.
The next thing I heard was, “ Well! how are you all V
uttered in a tolerably loud voice, followed by exclamations from
the sitters of “Here’s Peter;” “How are you, Peter?” and I
was given to understand that it was the voice of the spirit
Peter that was speaking. A second voice announced the arrival
of John King, a third of Katie, and a fourth of Daisy, for so I
was told these so-called spirits were designated.
My first impression was to shout with laughter at the cre¬
dulity of the sitters; my next to sit still and find how far this
credulity would lead them to be gulled by this rather clever
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
Sept. 3, 1875.
ventriloquist, who chatted familiarly, made jokes, was quick at
repartee, and poked fun at the sitters, completely upsetting the
orthodox notion of a ghost.
These so-called spirits several times made the tour of the
table, touching and patting the sitters, but entirely ignoring
me, for I was not once touched or spoken to during the seance.
How this clever ventriloquist moved about the table noiselessly
and vapidly, how he contrived in the dark to touch any sitter
who asked him, and why he avoided me, were puzzling
questions.
Ventriloquism would have accounted for the voices, and mes¬
merism explained the touches, only that Katie’s voice came
through one of the cardboard tubes held certainly not eighteen
inches from my face, and the sitters were also tapped with one
of these tubes, for there was no mistaking the hollow sound of
the tube as it struck the sitters who were close to me.
A test was asked for by one of the sitters, and the “ ring-
test” was suggested by him. Peter’s voice promised it provided
there was “ powerand apparently there was, for in a few
minutes the ring was on the arms of a gentleman sitting next
the medium, whose hand he declared had not quitted his grasp.
As the ring was apparently of solid iron, as thick as one’s
finger, and without a joint that could be detected by ordinary
examination, no doubt the majority of the sitters accepted the
test as a proof of the passage of matter "through matter. I came
to the conclusion either that the sitter was a confederate, or that
he had been under mesmeric influence when the ring was
slipped on his arm.
The lamp was now lighted, and there was an interval of ten
minutes, during which the medium left the room with one of the
habitues, who on his return sat next to me ; and as the sitter on
my right was also moved to make room for another, my suspi¬
cion became almost certainty, that a combination of trickery,
mesmerism, and ventriloquism had been employed to produce
the deception, and that I had failed to detect how it was
managed. •
The second part of the seance commenced. We all joined
hands, and the light was blown out, which was promptly fol¬
lowed by the return of Peter, who chatted with and touched the
sitters.
A shock of mesmeric influence from me caused Peter’s voice
to vanish, and the medium to be violently agitated and to shout
“ Oh 1 ” A second shock had the same effect.
I now tried a third shock, sending it through the sitters on
my left to the medium ; hut this time it did not affect him or
Peter, as the two previous shocks sent through the sitters on
my right had done. I repeated it more powerfully and without
success, for it was apparently intercepted by a gentleman
sitting near the medium. One of the sitters remarked, “ Mr.
W is controlled; ” and as Mr. W continued to twitch vio¬
lently like a person afflicted with St. Vitus’ dance so long as I sent
him mesmeric influence,* and stopped when I ceased, my in¬
fluence must have been useful to the spirit that controlled him.
As soon as Mr. W became violently agitated Peter spoke in
a hesitating kind of manner and then stopped.
On my resuming the passive state, Peter quickly returned,
and the sitter next to me desired him to shake hands, holding
out his hand for the purpose, and of course my, hand which
joined his. Judging by Peter’s voice (which sounded as if
approaching), he intended to comply, when a powerful effort of
my will sent him off like lightning, for a remark he was making
was finished, judging by the sound in the farthest corner of the
room. The sitter was apparently familiar with Peter, for he
remarked, “ He’s gone,” in a tone that indicated he didn’t
understand why.
When Peter returned and was making the tour of the table,
touching the sitters with the cardboard tube, I listened intently,
and heard first the tap of the tube, then the usual “ Thank you,
Peter ”; and when he was two sitters from me I heard in ad¬
dition a “ thud” “thud” on the table, as if a cat were walking
on two paws. The sitter next me was touched, and then with
all the influence I could throw off I willed that Peter, the cat,
the Devil, or whatever it was, should hit the medium on the nose.
I heard the sound of the tube as it was carried by something
to the other end of the table, the sound of the blow struck by
the cardboard tube, and the exclamation, “ What did you hit me
on the nose like that for, Peter ? ”
Once while thinking over the occurrences of the evening, and
paying no attention to what Peter and the sitters were saying, I
became aware by sensation that something on the table was very
close to me, and not relishing the close proximity of an intelligent
“ something ” that passed my comprehension, I threw off mes¬
* Does this mean that the writer was "willing” the medium to do
certain things ?»En.
meric influence. There was a noise like the “ spit ” of a cat, the
iron ring came down on the table with some force close to my
finger tips, as if it had fallen about two feet, and the cardboard
tubes were thrown, striking the sitter next me.
I was informed after the seance that one of the sitters had
asked Peter to put the ring on my arm.
Feeling uncomfortable at the presence of “ something” on
the table that could throw tubes, and might throw the iron ring
with better aim, I kept my mesmeric power active. Willing
that the sitters on my left should see a light, was followed by
two of them seeing a light. Willing that the only lady present
should see a light, was followed by the medium saying, “I see
clairvoyantly a spirit near you, Miss,” and the young lady soon
saw an old lady’s face, and as she became alarmed the door was
opened.
Whether the two, sitters saw a light, the medium clair¬
voyantly a spirit, and the young lady an old lady’s face, or only
fancied they saw these things, it is impossible for me to say.
This seance took place in February or March last, and this
account of it is given from memory. With the exception of a
friend who accompanied me, all present were strangers to me,
and no person was aware that mesmerism was being used as a
test.
This seance completely upset my theory that sitters were
electro-biologised. It convinced me—
(1) That there was an agent that obeyed my will promptly,
although I did not express it in words.
(2) That this agent carried and threw material objects.
(3) That this agent was not a. human being in the ordinary
acceptation of the term.
On these points I am absolutely certain. Whether the agent
that carried the tubes and obeyed my will also conversed in¬
telligently and joked with the sitters, I am not absolutely
certain, although, as a matter of opinion, I am inclined to believe
that all the phenomena (including the four different voices)
were caused by this same agent. My reasons for so believing
will be given after my narrative of facts is concluded.
With reference to your editorial foot-note to my letter of the
17th inst., allow me to remark that so long as my friends believe
the devil to be the prime mover and his imps the active agents
at work in the production of Spiritualistic phenomena, I must
be excused from publishing my name and address.
If sceptics will not accept facts authenticated by such names
as “ Crookes,” “ Varley,” and “ Wallace,” they will not accept
mine. I do not wish them to accept them, as they have oppor¬
tunities to investigate and satisfy themselves.
Common Sense.
Ang. 28,1875.
ilnibinctal ftetoss.
LIVERPOOL.
Mr. John Priest, last Sunday week, delivered an eloquent
address. The subject was “ Mysticism.” It is expected that
Mr. Priest will be among the number who will represent the
Liverpool Psychological Society at the Annual National Con¬
ference of Spiritualists in London.
Mrs. Tappan is expected in Liverpool in the second week of
September.
lectures on mesmerism.
Mesmeric seances at the Liverpool Psychopathic Institute are
for the present to be discontinued. As previously announced,
Mr. Coates has taken one of the finest halls in the country,
namely, the Blackburn Exchange, where he will, assisted by
Mr. Meredith, deliver a conrse of lectures on Mesmerism. The
hall has been taken for some time, and it is to be hoped the
enterprising undertaking will be successful. He says that he
has always looked upon Mesmerism as the thin end of the
wedge of Spiritualism. He intends afterwards to take the hall
for a course of free lectures on Spiritualism. Whether this
will be done or not depends on the success of the mesmeric
demonstrations.
PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A few days ago an animated discussion took place at a
meeting of this society, the subject being, “What evidence
have we of the reality of trance mediumship ? ” Many opinions
were advanced pro and con, but the best answer to the question
was given by Mr. Meredith, who stated that in order to judge
of the genuineness of anything we must first be in a position
to do so from a long practical investigation of it. He judged
trance mediumship by its fruits. When he saw a medium con¬
trolled by what purported to be an intelligence foreign to the
120
Sept. 3, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
sitters and to the medium, before jumping to the conclusion
that it was imposture he awaited results. The intelligence
says, “ I am Mrs. L. As soon as I can get a suitable physical
medium I will do what I can to show myself.” The spirit Mrs.
L. shows herself at Miss Clarke’s seances, Mr. B.’s, and at Mrs.
Hardy’s seances; she is, further, recognised by her husband and
friends at all these seances. Again, she says that she will sit, to
get her likeness taken at circle one, and is photographed at
another circle, which carried out to the letter the instruction
given by herself at a former sitting through a trance medium.
This to him was the best presumptive evidence of the genuine¬
ness of trance mediumship. Mr. John Chapman gave evidence
concerning his personal knowledge of the development of Mr.
J. J. Morse. Mr. Casson, the chairman, called attention to the
remarkable evidence affoi’ded by the perusal of Judge Edmonds’s
letters. Mr. John Priest, an able speaker, but a recent adherent
to the cause, dealt with what he considered to be serious objec¬
tions to trance speaking; one was Lindley Murray forgetting
his grammar in controlling certain mediums, the remarkable
sameness of Mrs. Tappan’s orations, and want of book-knowledge,
whether delivered by the supposed spirits of Judge Edmonds,
Professor Hare, or A. A. Ballou.
OPEN-AIR MISSION.
The open-air addresses on Spiritualism will be discontinued
unless some one will step forward and plough the rough ground
Over which Mr. Coates has so determinedly pioneered. Mr.
Meredith, in the absence of the usual speaker, addressed a
respectable and attentive audience last Sunday week. A large
quantity of Spiritual literature was distributed.
LIVERPOOL SUNDAY SERVICES.
Mr. Q-ay in the chair on Sunday afternoon last week, and Mr.
John Lament lectured; subject, “Spiritualism: what is its use?
Will it better a man ? ” The speaker said that the fundamental
basis of man’s thoughts here is that he wants to know—he is
always eagerly aspiring after knowledge, to become acquainted j
with himself and his surroundings. The man of physical
science has a vast array of facts relating to physical existence
and its exigencies ; his labours have benefited the human race
beyond measure, and society is indebted to the savans of the day
for the good that has been conferred upon the world through
their researches. The time was, and that not far distant, when
jurors would return a verdict of “ Died by the visitation of God,”
or when epidemics, frosts, and bad harvests were considered to be
the work of an angry God; but science had taught that the proper
verdict would have been “ Died of dirt ” or “ ignorance,” and
other mishaps were due to our want of accurate knowledge of the
hygienic dietetic requirements of our being, or proper observa¬
tion of the operations of nature, whether in the human body or
in the broad fields. This was their special school of inquiry, so
society should .not look to them for information conceming.things
spiritual. The theologian was equally wide of the question with
his dogmatism—man’s fall, the atonement, an inane heaven, or
blazing hell; with his endorsement of the spiritual manifesta¬
tions of the past, and denial of their existence in the present.
Men should turn from both these classes of thinkers and give
individual attention to the facts that Spiritualism presents; those
must be classified, and the conditions observed under which they
occur—then will their use be realised. Cut bono ? will answer
itself only to the patient practical investigator. Spiritualism will
demonstrate the reality of a future existence, in which we shall
reap the reward of our sowing here, and prove that there is no
escaping from the consequences of our acts, whatever may bo
their character, that we are constantly surrounded by our loved
ones gone before, and that the chains which bind us to them are
still unbroken. This will urge mankind on to purer lives, nobler
deeds, and a more Christ-like life.
The Messager of this month devotes one entire column
to the aims and objects of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, as set forth in its new edition of Constitution and
Rules.
Me. Niceforo Filalete, editor of the Italian journal
Annali dello Spiritismo, at Turin, is engaged on an Italian trans¬
lation of the works of Allan Kardec. The principal Kardechian
books have just been published at Rio Janeiro in the Portuguese
language.
Mr. Algernon Joy, honorary secretary to the
British National Association of Spiritualists, had arrived at
Chicago on the 14th of August, on his journey from California
to the Eastern States of America. No time is yet fixed for Mr.
Joy’s return to England.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Setif, Algeria.—A correspondent desires to thank you for your
communication, and to request that you will furnish your full
name and address.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Rmsell-street, W.C., Jrom the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3,—Opening Conversazione. Hours from 7 to
10.30 p,m.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
'Session, 7.30.
Friday, November B.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2: The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism amongst the
Working Classes as a Religious Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—the best means of
securing its permanent establishment.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Tickets to Conversazione, Is. 6d. each.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
The grammar school, dalton-in-furness.
Inclusive Terms: Forty Guineas per annum. A Reduction for
Brothers. Prospectus on Application. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., Pemb.
Coll., Oxon, Principal.
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publications on sale.
JOHN BRAY, Hon. See.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERYOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen's-rpad,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangpment. J. Coates, Principal.
Q$OUL READING; or, Psychometrical Delineation
K-J OF Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicatos
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OK, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES,
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of Action. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Sept. 3, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in 'Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
i_, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s, : moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s "Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraitbs, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science! and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
■ Believing Spirit: The‘Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
ti i on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New: the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. l2mo.i 600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus .saw the Mastodon ana
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrroundedL The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated :with numerous engravings, drawn by the
' sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
. clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability 6f
*, clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
j on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair
’ voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given tbrongb the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi-
isjiced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of ail the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.^
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits jp England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theoiogy, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
iifdlt. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “The Prophecy of
V ala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomenapresented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is Icon temporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Od.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
j AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Od.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free WUl. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s. . _ _
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. od.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d. , ,
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood's trans*
lation.) 7a 6d. , -
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d*
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
7s. Gd. * '<( a,
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE- TWO WORLDS,\y Brevior. 6s. 6d. '
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Od.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tnke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMA2ULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazuluand other Tribe*
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.    i.M . .
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1706. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART by
Joseph Ashman.. Is.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.   Sept. 3, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOL0GY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald." (2 Vols.) 10s.
"WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . ' . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .
The Teacher. „ II. „ ... . . .
The Seer. „III, •- „ . , . .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . .
The Thinker. „ V. * „ . . , , .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis ....
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land '. . . . .
Arabula, ,or Divine Guest . , . . . .’ . ,
Approaching Crisis, or Trath v. Theology ....
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . i .
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil . . ' .
Harbinger .of Health .. •. • . . . •.
HarmOnial Man, or Thoughts for the Age.....
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) ....
Philosophy of Special Providence ......
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .... . ,
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . r .
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . , .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . ■ 1 .
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime " .
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . ■ . ' .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology ,. . .
Morning Lectures . . t .
a. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
.76
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 4 0
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
.20
, 4 0
. 4 0
. 7 6
. 4 0
. 7 6
. 3 0
. 4 0
. 8 0
. 6 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 5 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . ... 2 6
Keys of the Creeds ... . . ... .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eltel) . , . ^ . .,.60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . ’£■ . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . •• . . " . ; .12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. mid 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. v . . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge.D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and; Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . ' . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries Of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . ,.20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools ... . . . . .. .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS. -
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is. ■
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
  ORTHODOX, by* J. B.' Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
., Tuttle. 2d. |
CARTE DE VIStTE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
■ Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The iate Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
• BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), is. each ’  
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
■ • Office-Bearers for 1875.
President,—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John JLamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
• Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation. :
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public Instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.;
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 660 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 600 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa •
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the bid Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen-
don, N.W.; or to Mr. T.Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. PartL
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.'
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 16.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
,, 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C.
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevbridgb & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
