AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
fREGISTEItED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 172.—(Vol. VII.—No. 24.) LONDON: DECEMBER 10, 1875. Published Weckl/; Price Twopence.
(Eontents.
Ppi'it Teaching. No. XLEV...'  ... ... 277
Review:—The Fair Haven. By the Author of Erewhon   278
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Last Week's Soiree—Mr.
Algernon Joy on Spiri ualistn in Amenoa—The Fundamental
UntrurMu ness of the Eddv Brothers and Mrs. Huntoon ... ... 279
The 1875 Conference of Spiritualists:—Popular Errors with regard
to Spiritualism—The Erroneous Notion that Spiritualists call up
Spirits—The Fallibility of Spirits—The Libel that Spiritualists
consist of Knaves and Fools—The Use of Spiritualism—Is it well
to give Less A'tention to Physical Manifestations?—The Nature
of the Spirits who produce Physical Manifestations—The Investi¬
gation of Spiritual Phenomena not Expensive  280
"Winter Meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists:—Mr.
F. M. Parkes on Spirit Photography—The Psychic Element of
Spiritual Photography, and some Experiments relating thereto ... 282
The Psychological Society of Great Britain...   .' 286
Provincial News: —N’ottirqham, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt iu Nottingham 287
Correspondence:—Baron Holmfelrt on National Association and Other
Matters—Immediate Help wanted for Mrs. J. W. Jackson   288
I71AST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC-
-J TUBES giving information about Spiritualism ara delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. luspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS. ■
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,"
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected wi'h Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
iti addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guineaa year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Glose at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B,—The Scbscriptiox for the Current Year, 1875, wu,i< not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o’clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends liaving papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—Jampt Wason, Esq. Vice-President—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William H.tchomn, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haalam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—tAr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up,- and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illvetrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Anyel in the
tenth state.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
rect eation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
8.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits."
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &c„ effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock^
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
. post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1883.
Has a very larye stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
Contents. •. '
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„' 3.—Appearances of tho Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„. 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
,, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ ■ 7 —The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
, „ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13 —The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
,, 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—-Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa. Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity. *
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was ptoduced by the d rect operation of
Spirits,
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of tho volume Cs., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERAOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, "W.U.
who have kindly consented to receive orders for ihe same.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR tbe CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen's-road,
Ever ton, Liverpool.- 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all pans. Terms
per arrangement. - J. Coates, Principal.
"OKVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The SpirituaLst
X) FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
* Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
*. Estimates forwarded on application.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMBKlN, MARSHALL & CO.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in Loudon. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—38, Croat
Russell-street, London, W.C,; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater*
noeter-row, E.O,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 10, 1875
BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, W^st Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islihgton-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W. .
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnerv, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N: Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.,28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D,. G., 6. Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, HUH.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale. 4
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James. Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Merae, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Eegent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M A.,LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E,
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
’ 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H.,-1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martjn R. Smith, Esq., Heathl’ands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
, Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The IJon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EJysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York'; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mr*. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S A.
Mis* Anna Blackwell, 13, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne. ‘
M. C Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr/Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr, W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Au*traiia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H Terry, Esq,, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M,D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres; Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St.Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de ITTnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq , 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
Allied, Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— Mr. Lewis Roberts,
68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nationai Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers m their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon appiication.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Comnol in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make,known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute,‘chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter. ,
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to lecture in London 'or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
I^TOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JLl of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of ’diseases,
indication cf their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
riTIHE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers, Physical
JL Mediums, will give Seances as followsOn Monday and Wednesday
evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission 2s. 6d.; on Saturday evenings, at
7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton, Macclesfield.
gj/U • • . ' • .
J[ Jj^turir ifp yrujr^ tx\ lip $t\tb j!jmjHtmft$itu
VOLUME ^EVEjM. J^UJVIBER TWEjMTY-FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10th, 1873.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS*
No. XLIY.
\The foregoing was written February 28A 1874. On
April 8th the answer was written, much other matter
having been given in the meantime.]
You inquired as to the connexion between India and
Egypt. The religion of Egypt was essentially a reli¬
gion of body, as that of India was of spirit. Egypt
had multifarious acts of external ritual; India culti¬
vated contemplation. Grod to the Hindoo was an undis-
coverable essence: to the Egyptian he was manifested
in every type of animal existence. To the Hindoo
time was nothing; eternity, all. To the Egyptian
every passing moment had its consecrated work. Egypt
was the antipodes of India. Nevertheless, it is true
that Egypt received its first religious inspiration from
India, even as did Zoroaster in Persia.
We have told you before that the special grandeur of
Egypt’s faith was the consecration to religion of daily
life. It was a faith which influenced daily acts.
Therein lay its power. It was a faith which recog¬
nised God in all nature, and especially in all animal
life. It was the mystery of existence, the highest
manifestation of Divine power that the Egyptian
worshipped when, as you imagine, he bowed down
before an idol graven in the image of an ox .... It
would be well that the same care for the bodj*1, the
same present view of religious duty, the same perception
of an all-pervading Deity which formed the creed of
ancient Egypt, and which enters so largely into ours,
should be again prevalent among you.
[Z suppose, in effect, that Egyptian theology was a
reaction from Hindoo mysticism.. You speale as if that
elaboration of ritual was a good thing. I should have
thought that the Egyptian priest wasted a deal of time,
and that his punctilious washings and shavings were
merely silly.]
Not so. The ritual was necessary for the age and
people. We are not concerned with anything but the
underlying idea. Art, literature, and science laboured
for religion. And so far from worship absorbing the
work of life, it was rather that every act of common
life was raised to the dignity of an act of worship. In
this sense only is it true; and a nobler truth can
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, Sj. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman In private life who’does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extractsthey gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a. large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may he assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to stats that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all esses unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Eh.
hardly be declared. To live in the presence of Deity*
to see His image all around, to consecrate every act to
His service, to keep mind, spirit, body, pure as He is
pure, consecrated to Him and to Him alone, this is to
lead the godlike life', even though it contain mistaken
details.
[No doubt prejudice hampers us greatly. But you
would not say (would you?) that a man's faith is
entirely indifferent in its substance, so he honestly pro¬
fesses it. For instance, Egypt reproduced noiv would
not be the ideal you seem to paint.]
Surely not. The world progresses, and gains higher
knowledge. It may not recur to. that which was
fitted for another people in an earlier stage of develop¬
ment. But though the world has gained, it has lost
also; and among the things which it has lost is that,
which may belong equally to all forms of faith, the de¬
votion of self to duty and to God. This is no insepa¬
rable quality of Egyptian faith. Bather was it ampli¬
fied and exemplified in higher degree in the life and
teaching of the Christ. But you have forgotten it; you
have lost that mark of true religion. It needs that
you see that in this point you were surpassed by those
whom you despise and contemn.
We do say, we have always said, that man’s respon¬
sibility is in proportion to the light which is in him ;
that man’s duty is not lessened but increased by the
quality of the revelation of which he is the recipient.
We tell you that'many a soul has progressed in spite of
its creed by honesty and sincerity and singleness of
purpose ; and that many a soul has been dragged down
by the very load of that faith in which its hopes were
centred. We know that it is so, and that man’s faith
in its external presentment—the outer shell which alone
you can see—is of comparatively little moment.
Ho must perforce take that which falls to his
lot, and according to the use he makes of it is
his progress. It is an accident whether an incarnated
soul be Jew or Turk, Mohammedan, Christian, Brahmin
or Parsee; but it is of the essence of that soul’s
progress whether it so uses its opportunities as to
progress, or so abuses them as to retrograde. Souls
have different opportunities here, and according as they
use them they have increased or diminished capacity
for progress in the after state for which they have
fitted themselves. This you know ; and the chance of
progress may be as great with the despised and humble
soul on whom the Pharisaical Christian looks down with
contempt as with one incarnated amidst every influence
of good and every opportunity of progress. It is a
pure question of spirit, into which you cannot yet enter.
You are concerned with the husk here; you have not
reached the kernel.
[But surely one who acts up to his knowledge as a
Christian, that knowledge being high, and the acts good and
complete, according to capacity and opportunity, gets a long
start of the barbarous fetish-worshipper, however honest he
may be.]
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
In this small fragment of existence it is not possible
that any gain be snatched which may not be readily
made up in another state. You are hampered by the
limited nature of your vision and knowledge. The
accidents which seem to you such bars may be but the
means selected to bring out some needed quality—
endurance, patience, trust, or love; whilst the luxurious
surroundings, the poisonous flattery, the complacent self-
satisfaction may be the engines of the adversaries who
are dragging down and stifling a soul.
You judge too hastily and imperfectly, and from
external signs only. Nor are you able to see what the
guardians intend, nor to make due allowance for temp¬
tation and its. results. These are, questions which now
are beyond your judgment.
Further, .as to your question, it is a bounden duty in
ea'ch to accept and act up to the highest view of Divine
Truth which is revealed in him and which he is able to
accept. By this his progress will be judged.
[JDo you teach a General Judgment ?]
No. The judgment is complete when the spirit
gravitates to the home which it has made for itself.
There can be no error. It is placed by the eternal law
of fitness. That judgment is complete, until the spirit
is fitted to pass to a higher sphere, when the same
process is repeated, and so on and on until the purga¬
torial spheres of work are done with, and the soul
passes within the inner heaven of contemplation.
[Then, in fact, there are many judgments?]
Yes and no. Many and none. Judgment is ceaseless,
for the soul is ever fitting itself for its change. No
such arraignment before the assembled universe as is in
your mind. That is an allegory.
In each stage of probation the spirit builds up a
character by its constant acts, which fits it for a certain
position. To that position it goes of necessity, without
what you mean as judgment. Sentence results at once ;
just as the total of a number of items is ascertained
without argument or judgment. There is no need for
the process of a court of justice as you understand it
on earth. The soul is the arbiter of its own destiny ;
its own judge. This is so in all cases of progress or
retrogression.
[Is each entry into a new sphere or state marked by a
change analogous to death ?]
Analogous, in that there is a gradual sublimation or
refinement of the spirit-body, until by degrees all gross
elements are purged away. The higher the sphere the
more refined and ethereal the body. The change is
not so material as that which you call death, for there
is no corporeal envelope to lay aside, but it is analogous
to it in that it is a process of development, the entry
of the spirit into a higher state of existence.
[And when all the gross elements are gone, the spirit
enters the spheres of contemplation, and is refined till all
may be refined away ?]
Not so. It is refined until the dross is gone, and the
pure spiritual gold remains. We know not of its life
in the inner heaven. We only know that it grows
liker and liker to God, nearer and nearer to His image.
It may well be, good friend, that the noblest destiny of
the perfected spirit maybe union with the God into
whose likeness it has grown, and whose portion of
divinity, temporarily segregated during its pilgrimage,
it so renders up to Him who gave it. These to us, as
to you, are but speculations. Leave them and be con¬
tent to know that which is alone worth knowing.
Could you penetrate all mysteries there would be no
Dec. 10, 1875.
longer occupation for your mind. You can know but
little here; but you can aspire, and in aspiring raise
your spirit above the sordid cares of earth to its truer
home. May the blessing of the Blessed One rest on
you. + Imperaxor.
3&ebicto.
The Fair Haven. By the Author oiErewhon. Triibner
and Co.
Erewhon was a decidedly clever and original book ;
one of the best of a group that has recently appeared,
with the aim by the depiction of an ideal community
to show us the foibles of our own. Lord Lytton’s
Coming Race, Edward Maitland’s By-gnd-By, Colymbia
by an anonymous author (and we are not sure that he
is not the author of Erewhon in a less developed stage),
Byrrna; or, Under the Ice,p\\ attest a literary mood
the prevailing feature* of which is covert satire upon
our insular or civilised perfection. In portraying an
ideal realm they afforded a standard of comparison by
which we were enabled to judge our own. It was no
small feat to hold up the mirror so dexterously as did
the author of Erewhon, or “ nowhere.” Enough to
make the fortune of any book was the happy hit at
the two kinds of banks in use in Erewhon, the bank of
every-day commercial use, and the “ musical bank,”
where a vague set of jeashiers manipulated a feeble and
unreal currency by which people made no profit, and
which served no use, but which was in fashionable
esteem, and of mysterious importance. The greatest
swindler in the commercial world had only to pay into
the musical bank sufficiently largely, and he received
in return, shall we say drafts on Beethoven, to keep up
the illusion, sufficient to ensure him a free pass through
the entire region over which the musical bank was
deemed to have jurisdiction.
The Fair Haven is a work of a very different
class. We will give its title page as it is representative
of the whole work. It is, so it states, “A work in
defence of the miraculous element in our Lord’s
ministry upon earth, both as against rationalistic
impugners, and certain orthodox defenders, by the
late John Pickard Owen, with a memoir of the author
by William Bickersteth 0 wen. Second edition, by Samuel
Butler, author of Erewhon.” “ The late” John Pickard
Owen, his memorialistie brother, and Samuel Butler,
still alive, prove to be one and the same person. This
compound mystification is the feature of the book. The
work is a skit, but a skit so cleverly carried out that it
imposed upon no less a personage than the editor of
The Rode, who reviewed it innocently as a Christian
friend. What the book actually does is to set
rationalists and orthodox by the ears, dexterously giving
in to both in turn, and judiciously mixing ironical piety
with sad expressions of the necessity of damaging
admissions. We do not object to the criticisms the work
contains, but think strongly that the affectation of
candour covering the veriest ridicule may be carried too
far on so serious a subject. There are good simple
souls, who, reading this book, with its respectful
references to “our Lord,” “the Saviour,” and so on,
would never dream of questioning the candid writer’s
good faith, but would find themselves finally in a
pitiable quandary of Pyrrhonism. It is not quite fair
to lay a trap baited with such an unbroken air and
language of orthodoxy. The arguments of the book
Dec. 10, 1875.
THE SPIHITUALIST.
279
are ingenious, but its aim is indefinite. It is mystifica¬
tion over mystified, and satire that has overstepped
itself, and wandered too far into the serious and matter-
of-fact. The portion of the volume that is really most in¬
teresting—we avoid using the word edifying for any part
of it—is the imaginary memoir. The author and his bro¬
ther are two little boys who have been taught daily prayers
so strenuously that they have revolted, and they con¬
clude that saying prayers is an unpleasant duty imposed
only upon the young and helpless, and that when they
are grown up they will be able to escape from it. By
chance a lady visitor is located in their bedroom for a
few nights. The.first night they are manifestly wide
awake when she retires, and to their consternation she,
a grown up person, goes through a long audible prayer,
which includes a petition for themselves. The next
night, after spending the afternoon in practising snoring,
they sham sleep, but keep eachf other awake by pinch¬
ing so as to be ready for their experiment whether or
not the lady would again perform her prayers when
they appeared to -be asleep. She came, satisfied herself
that they were sleeping, undressed—but alas ! there
were no prayers that night either for them or for any
one else. They tried her again. When they were
awake she prayed; when they appeared to be asleep
she availed herself of her privilege as a grown up
person, and said no prayers. This was one great cause,
and a not unnatural one, of a long period of religious
scepticism to one of the pair when a youth. There
are many fair hits in the book at the inconsistencies of
orthodoxy ; there is mitch really to suggest thought:
all one should seek to prevent is that any good un-
speculative person should read it without any previous
hint of its true character.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION'OF SPIRITUALISTS.
LAST WEEK’S SOIKEE.
On Wednesday last week the ordinary monthly soiree of the
British National Association of Spiritualists was held at the rooms
of the National Association, at 38, Great Russell-streot, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O. Among the members present were Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald, Mr. J. N. T. Mar-
theze, M. Dufort, Baron Holmfeld, Drl.and Mrs. Carter Blake, Mrs.
Vesey, Mr. Vesey, Miss Caroline Corner, Miss Nina Corner, Mrs.
Jeffreys, the Misses Jeffreys, Mrs. Michell, Mr. Michell,- Mrs. and
Miss Maltby, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. and Mrs.
William Tebb, Mr. Andrew Leighton (of Liverpool), Mr. Glendin-
ning, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. and Mrs. Keningale Cook, Mrs. and
Miss Cutmore, Mr. H. Withall and the Misses Withall, Mr. R. Pearce,
Miss Barber, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. D. Rogers, Miss Houghton,
Mrs. Wood, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Miss Godfrey, Mrs. Ashley, Mrs.
Kislingbury, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
MR. ALGERNON JOY ON SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
An interesting evening was spent mostly in social conversation.
Among the objects on’ view were two books full of exceedingly
beautiful spirit paintings by Mrs. Honywood, which attracted a
large share of attention. An oil-painting belonging to Mr. Mar-
theze, and representing the appearance of a materialised spirit at a
private spirit circle held in Liverpool, was also an object of interest.
Shortly after eight o’clock in the evening the members of the com¬
pany, who had been dispersed throughout the various rooms, as¬
sembled in the Council room to listen to a short address from Mr.
Algernon Joy, honorary secretary to the Association, about his
experiences among Spiritualists, in America.
Mr. Joy, who was greeted with warm applause, said: I have
made no sort of preparation to address the meeting this evening,
but will try to give a cursory sketch of what I have seen of
Spiritualists in the United States. I was much engaged nearly all
the time I was in that country, consequently have been unable to
give regular attention to the subject of Spiritualism. The first
mention of Spiritualism which I heard in that country was while I
was driving across the plains in the State of Nevada, on my way to.
a mine which I was going to inspect. The driver of the “ stage ”
was a communicative sort of man, and told a story about a man in
Carson, who was a Spiritualist, and had shot a man “ right on the
street.” I then asked the driver about the Spiritualists in that
neighbourhood, and was told that there were many of them in Car-
son, and that they Were very much like other people. They did not
seem to be generally considered deluded beings. Soon we came to
a tunnel mouth by the side of the road, with an enormous mound
of earth outside. ' The driver said it had been dug out by a man’
who worked seven days a week at it in search of gold, because the
spirits told him there was plenty of the precious metal there; he
dug for five years in perfect faith, and found none. (Laughter.)
The next I heard of Spiritualism was during my visit to San Fran¬
cisco. There it appeared to permeate all the churches, and there
was scarcely a single pulpit in San Francisco where the preaching
was not more or less leavened with the philosophy of Spiritualism.
As a general rule four meetings in connection with Spiritualism
were held in different parts of the town every Sunday. One of
these meetings was convened regularly for the purpose of free dis¬
cussion, and consisted half of Spiritualists and half of people who
were opposed to Spiritualism; three out of every four of the Spirit¬
ualists present at these “ free discussion” meetings were free lovers,
and probably nearly half of the Spiritualists in San Francisco hold
free love doctrines, which are most strongly opposed by the
remaining Spiritualists. Because of the doctrines of free love
being so much mixed up with Spiritualism there are many Spirit¬
ualists there who never mention their belief, because they do not
wished to be mixed up with the disputed question. I was introduced
to one lady in San Francisco and was afterwards shocked by dis¬
covering that she had had four husbands, one of whom cut his
throat because she left him, and the other three are still living.
The secretary of the only society there is a most fascinating person,
who sings like an angel, and who has had four husbands; one of
her husbands is now treasurer to the society and another the
president, and she transacts business; sitting between them,
and they all get on very amicably together. One fine day she had
told her previous husband that she liked the • other man better, and
then straightway left her home and married the other man almost
immediately. This shows one of the inconveniences of free love
doctrines, that a man may be courting another man’s wife under
his nose, without his suspecting it, as actually occurred in this
case, and very rapidly walk off with her. I was told that
probably one-third of the acknowledged Spiritualists in the United
States are free lovers, and that is a reason why many who are
Spiritualists in faith do not avow it. The other two-thirds of the
Spiritualists are perhaps the most violent opponents of free love
that exist anywhere.
At San Francisco I made the acquaintance of Mr. and Mrs.
Slocum, who were the joint editors and proprietors of Common
Sense. Mr. Slocum is of a very tolerant nature, disinclined to think
ill of any one or any tjiiug. He is very far from being a free lover
himself, but thinks that the ideal of the doctrine is wholly pure,
though he does not believe humanity to be yet prepared to adopt it.
In Salt Lake City I found Spiritualism in another form. All the
leaders of Mormohism arc bitterly opposed to it, for it is eating
away their vitals. All Mormons who fall away from the faith
invariably become Spiritualists, Some few years ago 500 Mor¬
mons came out with Mr. Godbe from the Mormon Church, and
formed a Spiritualistic Association. They took a hall, and Mr.
Godbe managed all the business of the organisation,until it became
necessary for him to give all his time to his own affairs, for the
Mormons from whom he seceded tried hard to ruin him, and nearly
succeeded.
There appears now to be rather a want of cohesion among
the members of the society in Salt Lake City. I attended one of
the meetings there, and only about a dozen persons were present,
yet Spiritualism was so common that seances were held regularly in
a very large number of houses in Salt Lake City. Thence I went
to Chicago, and met Mr. S. S. Jones, the editor of the Retigio-
Philosophical Journal, and through him was introduced to several
prominent Spiritualists. The Spiritualists in Chicago are more
or less divided into two or three parties, and there 'is another
nevvspaper there called the Spiritualist at Work, edited by a Mr.
Wilson, a very excellent man and good Spiritualist. Both papers
advocate anti-free love doctrines. There are no avowed free love
papers in America but Woodhull and Clajlin's Weekly, and another
paper edited by Moses Hull, so far as I know. I found, that in
Chicago the number of free lovers has been reduced; they seem
to have been driven out West, and there are more of them in San
Francisco than anywhere else. In Chicago there is a Lyceum to
educate the children of Spiritualists, and it holds its meetings eveiy
Sunday.
I also went to Philadelphia, and saw Dr. Child, who was very
ill. There seems to bp no doubt that he was in partnership witn
the Holmeses, reaping pecuniary benefit from their seances, with
which," it afterwards turned out, a considerable amount of fraud
had been mixed up. When this was discovered, Dr. Child stopped
the sale of his book, which purported to have been dictated by the
spirit John King, who appeared through the Holmeses’. The book
also contained an account of the seances at the Holmeses’. The
feeling against Dr. Child in Philadelphia, .in consequence of his
having been in partnership with these mediums, was so strong
that he was obliged to resign his presidency of the Spiritualistic
Association there. While I was in Philadelphia I saw a copy of
Dr. Child’s book for sale at the public bookstall in the International
Hotel, and I think that, whether Dr. Child now reaps any benefit
from it or not, he ought to manage somehotv to stop the sale.
From Philadelphia I went to Baltimore, where 1 met Mr. Wash¬
ington Danskin, a very fine character, and the father of Spiritualism
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 10, 1875.
in. Baltimore, and who perhaps for that reason is rather tyran¬
nical in his opinions, and has a strong tendency to discountenance
those who do not think as he does. I was surprised to hear after I
left Baltimore that there is another society in a much more
flourishing condition than the one with which Mr. Danskin is
connected, but about which he told me nothing except that it was a
trumpery concern. Still he is a warm-hearted Spiritualist, although
he has his little peculiarities. Mr. Danskin had been the only
Spiritualist in Baltimore ; he for five years advocated the cause , in
public with nobody but his wife taking a place by his side in the
matter; at the expiration of that time Spiritualists began to multi¬
ply, a society was formed, and in process of time a second branched
off from it; the second society was the one which employed Mr.
Morse. Mr. Danskin’s society attracted about one hundred persons,
I believe, to listen to the utterances every Sunday.
Mr. Morse remarked that the social question was the cause of
the split among the Spiritualists in Baltimore.
Mr. Joy added:—There are other causes; for instance, Mr. Dan¬
skin was a Southerner who did not believe in the emancipation of
slaves then, neither does he now, this was another of the several
reasons for the scaling off; but perhaps the main cause was that
Mr. Danskin was rather autocratic.
THE FUNDAMENTAL UNTRUTHFULNESS OF THE EDDY BROTHERS
AND MRS. HUNTON.
I also went to Albany, New York, and met Dr. Ditson,
who is deep in occultism; and a great friend of Madame
Blavatsky; Dr. Ditson believes that many of the manifesta¬
tions can be obtained by magic as well as by mediumship.
I met Madame Blavatsky at Dr. Ditson’s house; she is
a very interesting and amusing lady, and a most profound occultist.
I went to see the Eddy brothers, and intend to write a letter to The
Spiritualist about them. While there I saw no manifestations under
test conditions. I firmly believe that every spirit that came out
upon the platform was William Eddy himself; those that only
showed in the doorway, the same on his hands and knees, and the
small children that appeared were made-up dolls; still I must
admit that much of this is merely hypothesis. The whole family
are most unbounded liars; I never met such a lying family. The
brothers are also in every way great blackguards. Mrs. Huntoon
is perhaps equally untruthful. One evening I called on the chance
of getting a seance'which she had half promised me. I found the
lights our, and, on knocking at the door, could get no answer. The
next day she told me that she had just come back from Rutland.
A few minutes afterwards I chanced to mention this in the house of
a neighbour, and they laughed and told me that she had slept in
their house all night, that on the previous evening she came running
in saying that h^r husband had threatened to cut her throat, and'
asked them to allow her to sleep there. Mrs. Cleveland, who ap¬
pears to be a very sensible woman, and who once firmly believed
in the mediumsbip of the Eddy brothers, now states that she had
been deceived. 8 he says that by degrees she distinctly detected
fraud in almost every case. Mr. Pritchard, and his sister, Mrs.
Packer, said that they recognised the mother of the latter; but she
(Mrs. Cleveland) had a good look at this spirit, and she was per¬
fectly certain that the face she saw was William Eddy’s. He had
his hair brushed back and a frill cap on.
In New York three or four meetings in connection with Spirit¬
ualism are held every Sunday. There are two organised
societies there. Many things are done in that city without any
society whatever, by five or six persons joining together and hold¬
ing public meetings. If ’they lose too much over them they stop
them; if the loss is but slight they appeal to their friends to
make up the deficiency, and in this way many lectures are carried
on without afiy great loss.
I saw something of Spiritualism in Boston, but not much; I
heard Moses Hull preach there; his address was an admirable one,
and although he is said to be a great free lover he made no allusion
to that subject: his remarks were an explanation of a few chapters
in the New Testament containing some rather striking, ideas in
relation thereto. My general impression about Spiritualism in the
United States is that on the whole in that country it has a freer
and fairer field than here, because there the people are not so
much under the control of Mrs. Grundy. I do not think that
anybody runs the risk of being tabooed in the United States for
being a Spiritualist, although perhaps now and then a person may
laugh at us. At the same time, I think that very few of the
upper classes in America take any great interest in Spiritualism.
In Boston I was staying with an American, a relation of my own,
who had never seen anything of Spiritualism or Spiritualists, in
fact, he thought the whole subject low and vulgar, and when I told
this relative that I was a Spiritualist he was quite astounded. If
I had told him I was a cannibal he could not have been more
surprised. People are surprised there sometimes by such confes¬
sions, but neither disgusted nor shocked. From the loosely
organised • tate of society in America I do not think that Spiritualist
organisati. ns are so necessary in that country as in this, and
attempts there to organise have generally failed. An attempt at
organisation was begun in Albany many years ago with Dr. Ditson
as president, treasurer, and secretary, but he had to resign audit
brok up. There is a lively society of Spiritualists at Troy, not
far from Albany.
Mr. William Tebb said he thought that the number of
Spiritualists in America had been greatly exaggerated, one of the
lowest estimates of their number, coming from American Spiritual¬
istic sources, being that they amounted to three millions. He
(Mr. Tebb) had travelled through a large portion of the country ;
in many towns he found that the names of local Spiritualists were
not generally known, nor their places of meeting, if they had any.
He should like to hear what Mr. Joy had to say upon this sub¬
ject, for he thought that the published estimates were great
exaggerations.
Mr. Joy said:—My journey was not taken for the purpose of
inquiring into Spiritualism, and although I passed through a large
portion of the States, including California, my journey was, more or
less, an erratic one. In some of the places I visited I made no
inquiries about Spiritualism, therefore I can only form a vague
opinion as to the number of its adherents. I think that thenumber
of avowed Spiritualists is exceedingly small in every place which I
visited; at a rough guess they did not amotmt to one per cent, of
the population. For every avowed Spiritualist I think that, per¬
haps, about ten persons may be impregnated with a belief in its
facts to such an extent as to induce them to attend circles. Mr.
Slocum, who is an expei’ienced and careful man, told me that
ten per cent, of the population of San Francisco are practi-
'cally Spiritualists, to the extent of believing in spirit com-
jnunion. Much harm is done to the movement by numerous
fraudulent mediums; I do not mean persons who pretend to
be mediums, and are not so, but those who are actually so,
and who supplement the same by trickery. I believe that the Eddy
brothers have some mediumship, but have found out that the
manifestations draw too much vitality from them and exhaust
their strength; and they have discovered, moreover, that sham
seances are easier to produce and far more amusing to themselves.
I think that when persons like Colonel Olcott go there intending
to publish results, they then get real manifestations. The astonish¬
ment of my relatives when I told them that I was a Spiritualist
was of a somewhat exceptional nature, for it must be remembered
that this occurred in Boston, the most old-fashioned place in the
United States, full of the most old-fashioned people, who are
rather satirically called in other parts of the States “ The Pilligrim
Fathers;” they stand upon a somewhat historical footing, and have
a great ambition to imitate England in every respect, especially in
our Grundyism.
Mr. W. Tebb said he thought that the statements made by Mr.
J oy confirmed his own impressions as to the number of Spirit¬
ualists in America. When Mr. Andrew Leighton went there he
had a difficulty in finding any Spiritualists at all. He (Mr. Tebb)
thoughtitprobablethattheSpiritualistsmight amount to ten percent,
of the population in San Francisco; he found more Spiritualists
in New England than in any other part of America. As to what
Mr. Joy had said about Mr. God be, he was a personal friend of his
own, who in the first instance became a Mormon upon conviction, and
afterwards because of his conscientious convictions gave up
Mormonism and became a Spiritualist, for notwithstanding
great worldly sacrifices he was a man who acted up to what he
believed to be true.
Mr. Joy said he did not intend to say anything whatever against
Mr. Godbe, and hoped that none of his remarks had conveyed that
impression; such had not been his intention, and he fully agreed
with what had been said by Mr. Tebb.
The meeting gave Mr. Joy a round of applause because of the
interesting nature of his narrative, after which the formal business
of the conversazione came to an end.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In continuation of our report of the proceedings of the National
Conference, at 38, Great Russell-street, we take up the thread of the
narrative at the opening of the meeting upon the evening of Nov.
5th, under the presidency of Mr. T. Everitt.
- POBULAR ERRORS WITH REGARD TO SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. H. T. Humphreys read the following paper:—
Although the subject of this paper may appear better suited for
a public audience than for a Conference of Spiritualists, reasons
are not wanting for introducing such a topic for our consideration.
In the first place, few will be disposed to deny that as yet but a
small proportion of the gross errors entertained by the public with
regard to Spiritualism and .Spiritualists have been removed, and
every now and then we still find that some of those supposed to
have been buried have risen from their graves to haunt us in
newspaper reports and in leading articles, the writers of the latter
being evidently selected for their total ignorance of the matter;
for although every influential paper in London counts on its staff
at least one believer in Spiritualism, no Spiritualist would be
permitted to write an article on such a subject. It may be worth
c >nsidering some of these popular errors, if only with the view of
inquiry and discussion on the best modes of disabusing the minds
of the public with regard to them.
In the second place, it may not be amiss for Spiritualists to look
a little at themselves by the light which a consideration of some of
these errors will afford. By examining them we may obtain a
glimpse of ourselves as others see us, and some good may be done
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
Dec. 10, 1875.
by considering carefully how far the conduct and conversation of
Spiritualists themselves may have tended to countenance and per¬
petuate certain errors ; and further, how much has been left
undone which might have tended to their removal. Such consi¬
derations appear to be needed-at the present time. This is an age
of inquiry, and it is scarcely too much to say that the eyes of the
world are turned upon Spiritualism. The subject is not scoffed at
or ridiculed as it used to be. It is now admitted that men of sense
and discrimination may be Spiritualists, and in place of the sneer,
open or covert, which was wont to greet the confession, “ I am a
Spiritualist,” the most common rejoinder is now, “ I wish you
would show me something of it.” Our object as an Association is
to aid this spirit of inquiry, and we must endeavour to remove
whatever tends to weaken it.
In the third place, I venture to suggest that some errors exist
which not only have place in the minds of the general public, but
are shared by some Spiritualists. These errors may be more in
degree than in kind, but when we ask the public to examine us
narrowly we' may as well leave as few holes as possible in our
coats.
THE ERRONEOUS NOTION THAT SPIRITUALISTS CALL UP SPIRITS.
One of the most persistent popular errors which we meet in the
columns of newspapers is that Spiritualists invoke spirits. We
still see at times the stale and would-be witty remark that it were
better to have no future life, than to be at the beck and call of
every circle that might choose to summon us to knock tables and
chairs about for them. This double-barrelled charge of blank
cartridge, not satisfied with the error first alluded to, is loaded
with the other assumption that Spiritualism consists in knocking
furniture about. On this latter point I cannot help thinking that
Spiritualists are somewhat to blame for dwelling too strongly
on physical manifestations, and too frequently keeping in the
background developments of a much higher character ; and I
propose to say a little more presently about it. With respect to the
first, I may say that it is not very long since our secretary received
a letter, asking for directions for the invocation of spirits, and
especially asking how to call up the special spirit with which the
writer might at the moment wish to communicate. The natural
feeling of a Spiritualist is to laugh at such questions, but it maybe
worth considering whether Spiritualists have been always careful
to deny the erroneous assumption. Have they properly put before
the public the fact that the answering query of Hotspur to Glen-
dower—
” Bat will they come when you do call for them ? ’’
remains as pregnant to-day as it was in the days of Queen Elizabeth ?
The public should be plainly told that we do not invoke spirits, but that
we are ready to assist them to come to us ; that our view is that
when we sit down to a circle we simply enable a few of the hun¬
dreds of spirits who are anxious to communicate with us to fulfil
their desire to some extent, and that no Spiritualist of my ex¬
perience would for a moment think of summoning any spirit to
approach him.
THE FALLIBILITY OF SPIRITS.
Another not by any means unnatural error I have seen broadly
stated in a leading article to the effect that if we were certain
these communications came from spirits we ought to listen to them
with the utmost respect, and to be wholly guided by their advice.
This is precisely what Spiritualism teaches us we ought not to do,
and no harm would result to the cause of Spiritualism by plainly
setting before the public our views that spirits are but men dis¬
embodied, some being better and some probably worse than those
still in the body; interesting as it may be to communicate with any,
we know that some will deceive, if possible, or otherwise injure
those whom they address. Our business is to seek for communica¬
tions with such as are better than ourselves, spirits from whom we
may learn something of value, but we should be very chary indeed
of taking their advice oh matters connected with our worldly affairs.
No doubt these are truisms to most of my hearers, but they ought,
so far as may be, to be impressed upon the public when such gross
ignorance is displayed as to our views of spirit life.
THE LIBEL THAT SPIRITUALISTS CONSIST OF KNAVES AND FOOLS.
Spiritualists are divided by their opponents into two classes—
knaves and fools—the one the impostors and the other the dupes.
Notwithstanding the inquiring spirit to which I have alluded, we
still find this idea put forward; witness the recent articles on the
Katie King affair, and on the late trial of Buguet. Whenever an
imposture is exposed, or alleged to have been exposed, the anti-
Spiritualists sing a pean and declare the ghosts laid. It matters
not to them that they rise as distinctly as ever, and that Spiritualism
is little affected. But what it behoves us to consider is how far
Spiritualists themselves give ground for the idea by a too ready
acceptance of the genuineness of remarkable phenomena. A
Spiritualist ought not to accept as genuine any of these marvels
until he has fairly exhausted all means of accounting for them on
other than the Spiritual theory. Mischief is done to Spiritualism
by a readiness to refer to spiritual agency things which we
do not understand. When Maskelyne and Cooke first per¬
formed at the Crystal Palace, I could not understand how
the man, whom I had seen shut up in the box, appeared at the
other end of the hall while the box continued locked up; and an
eminent Spiritualist, who was present, insisted to me after the per¬
formance that this man had been by spirit agency passed through
the material box. The explanation of this trick is now known to
be simple, having been publicly exposed by Dr. Sexton; but such
sayings of Spiritualists are certain to be remembered, not so much
to their personal detriment as to that of Spiritualists generally, and
afford some ground for the allegation that they can be readily im¬
posed upon.
THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM.
An error very common also is the constant introfluction of the
cut bo'to argument, accompanied by the assertion that Spiritualism
is of no use, and followed, with strange logic, by the argument that
therefore it cannot be true. Those who employ such arguments
would be scarcely worthy of a reply were they not so numerous ;
but, in replying to them, it is as well not to stop short at showing
the fallacy of the argument, but to proceed further to demonstrate
some of the benefits which may be obtained from Spiritualism,
especially as these benefits ought to form the principal inducement?
to inquiry.
IS IT WELL TO GIVE LESS ATTENTION TO PHYSICAL
MANIFESTATIONS ?
As regards physical manifestations, it is true that, when witnessed
under favourable circumstances, they are most potent incentives to
inquiry, and, further, are not unfrequently productive of conviction
of the truth of Spiritualism. It is, however, questionable whether
they are the best or the most convincing evidence, and it may be
worth considering whether Spiritualists do not seek after them with
too much eagerness, and even at times accept them as genuine with
somewhat greater readiness than is-altogether wise. With regard
to physical manifestations generally very great difficulties exist, and
it is to be feared that those who seek to witness them, are often too
ready to accept conditions which, however necessary they -may
appear to be, certainly are of such a character as to facilitate im¬
posture, if such be intended. Total darkness, and actual immobi¬
lity on the part- of the visitors, carefully arranged under the direc¬
tion of the medium, are too commonly conditions to which visitors
submit. Under these conditions the application of tests becomes a
matter of extreme difficulty, and in general nothing is known
beforehand of the integrity of the medium. Under the conditions
above alluded to, the temptation to imposture is very strong, quite
irrespective of any pecuniary advantage to be secured by it. We
are all aware of the uncertainty of any manifestation sought for,
and it must be a hard thing for a medium to abstain from satisfying
visitors by doing what may be readily accomplished and very diffi¬
cult to detect. We must £^lso remember that there may be impos¬
ture of which the medium is unconscious. (Hear, hear.) During
a trance, the muscles of the medium may be employed to produce
phenomena which, though .spiritual, are not of the direct character
looked for; writing, given through the hand of a medium, is as
truly spiritual as is direct writing, but is to an unbeliever in Spirit¬
ualism a totally different affair, and no one would appeal to the
former as an evidence equal to the latter.
THE NATURE OF THE SPIRITS WHO PRODUCE PHYSICAL
. MANIFESTATIONS.
Another point of some importance with regard to physical pheno¬
mena is that so far as I know they are, in the majority of cases,
the work of spirits in a low state of development. Hence, apart from
the consideration of the waste of time and power which might be
more suitably employed in acquiring information of lasting value,
there is the difficulty of guarding against the possible .deceitful¬
ness of the spirits themselves. Also, as we are aware that the old
proverb of “ birds of a feather” has received a gflod deal of exem¬
plification, in Spiritualism, we should require strong testimony to
the thoroughly fair and honourable character of the mediums in
whose presence physical marvels occur. In no case ought they to
be accepted without- the most searching scrutiny. I hope no one
will suppose from these remarks that I have any desire to hinder
the investigation of physical phenomena; but I think it worth con¬
sidering whether any very great advance has been made, or is to be
expected from these coarse developments. The transport of Mrs.
Guppy for a mile and a half through the air, remarkable as such
a manifestation must appear, differs but in degree from the lifting of
a table bodily six inches from the floor. If we are fully satisfied
that the latter has been done, there is no reason to deny the other.
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL* PHENOMENA NOT EXPENSIVE.
At a sitting of the Conference of 1874, held in the Crystal
Palacfe, a gentleman present said that he had seen nothing of
Spiritualism, and would like to investigate, but that a Spiritualist
had informed him to do so would cost him a good deal of time and a
good deal of money. Are there not too many Spiritualists who would
say the same thing? Is there not among them a little too much de¬
pendence on recognised mediums. For myself I may say that most
likely 1 should never have been a Spiritualist had I only sat with
known mediums. A book published ten years since, entitled
Scepticism and Spiritualism, is well worthy the notice of every inves¬
tigator. In it the author details her own investigations in private
circles, without any known mediums, and the history is both inte¬
resting and instructive. My own 'experiences, though not so
startling, have been much of the same character, and I cannot doubt
were such as any one might gain without expending any very
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 10. 1875.
serious length of time, or any money. My investigations were
conducted at home with my wife, my sister, or some acquaintance,
and I speedily obtained irrefragable evidence—first, that some force
was at work uncontrolled by myself or any of those who sat with-
me ; and, secondly, that this force was accompanied by intelligence.
In the next place the conclusion, though not so positive, was to me
irresistible, that this force was wielded not by one but by several in¬
telligences, and for these the convenient name is “ spirits.” Into
the next and more important question of the identity of these
spirits I need not now enter further than to say that I believe in
most cases the evidence of identity must appeal personally to each
individual, and that it can rarely be transferred to a third party.
Of this Class of evidence I obtained sufficient to convince me of the
identity of several'spirits.
I hope none who hear this paper will suppose that I would say a
word against recognised mediums, or mean to object to their being
paid for giving up their time as they do. I believe most of
them to be honest and sincere, and to be engaged in doing good by
assisting in the spread of truth and knowledge. But Spiritualism
cannot depend upon a few prominent mediums, and though I do not
urge that these should in any degree be neglected, I would suggest
to Spiritualists generally to employ the means always at command,
to seek in a prayerful spirit for truth and wisdom from the Father
of spirits, and I cannot doubt that more good would be done thus,
in enlarging the borders of Spiritualism privately, than by dwelling
upon startling phenomena not very readily received, and too often
of a somewhat doubtful character.
The conclusion of this report will be published next week.
WINTER MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. F. M. PARKES ON SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
Last Monday evening, at the usual fortnightly meeting of the
members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Dr.
Sexton occupied the chair.
THE PSYCHIC ELEMENT OE SPIRITUAL PHOTOGRAPHY AND SOME
EXPERIMENTS RELATING THERETO.
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen,—The recent discoveries
and confession of fraud respecting the processes of spiritual pho¬
tography having raised serious questions, and probably much
anxiety, as to the possibility of the genuineness of so beautiful a
phenomenon, I feel myself subjected as it were to a kind of moral
demand to relate my experiences, however small and insignificant
they may appear when summed up by those to whom I shall de¬
scribe them. But I must first apprize you that there are some, to
me, painful features respecting my position in relation to the pro¬
cess I am about to describe, on account of which I must appeal to
your most charitable magnanimity.
Firstly, it is that I am necessarily compelled so frequently to
speak of myself, and therefore make use of the egotistical pro¬
noun in nauseating repetition; and secondly, alas, that the only
evidence I can present you with is solely dependent on my own
assertions.
The painfulness of such a position is, I think, sufficiently evi¬
dent to enable you to understand the nervous diffidence I had to
overcome by the impulse given by my impression of the import¬
ance of my subject. I will endeavour to avoid the needless occu¬
pation of your time by recounting my medial experiences apart
from that phase of its development which is more immediately con¬
nected with my present subject; therefore suffice it to say that I
am subject to the influence of several spirits who have instigated
and assisted me in the process commonly called spiritual photo¬
graphy. I believe that 1 was first informed of the gift that was to
be developed in my medial power at the private house of a friend
whilst sitting in seance, in consequence of which I made several
attempts at the house of a Mr. Reeve, of King’s-cross. We ob¬
tained at first hands and heads and vapoury forms, so imperfect
that they might have been supposed to be mere stains (the first was
taken July 13th, 1872), but eventually they became less clouded and
more defined. In all these attempts Mr. Reeve and I observed cer¬
tain rules or conditions laid down by our spiritual friends.
Firstly I was to isolate myself for an hour or two before the pro¬
cess. Mr. Reeve (who was said to be developing me) was to keep the
glass plate and collodion near .him, he was to lay his hands on the
camera some time before operating; all chemicals, glass, etc., to be
of the purest character. The collodion plate to bo immersed in the
nitrate bath not less than ten minutes. Meditation in the dark
room was to be my condition, and combination was the result of
my. coming out to expose the plate for the.photographs, so that the
words isolation, meditation, and combination, were to me a sort of
svmbol of the conditions I was to observe, rather than an explana¬
tion of the method of the process.
The first figure I obtained was like a scarecrow, it was dressed
in a long coat, tall hat, the arm pointed upward, but the hand hung
downward, the coat hung loosely, the arm was so straight, that it
looked as though produced by a stick in a coat sleeve, with a glove
on the end to represent a hand. I am sorry to say that the
negative was lost or destroyed. Afterwards the style assumed that
of very bad drawings, in fact, I may describe the several phases
under the following terms
1st. Vapoury, without form.
2nd. Ill-defined forms.
3rd. Forms of vapour apparently breaking off.
4th. The vapour more collected and the figure more opaque.
5th. Perfect opacity of figure.
6th. More symmetry of figure.
7th. Figures larger, features better developed, and heads almost
opaque, whilst that part of the body in clothing very vapoury and
transparent.
I will here remark by the way, that the vapoury forms taken by
Mr. Beattie, of Clifton, come nearer to my earliest experiences than
anything I have yet seen, and the second and third phases resembled,
in many instances, those of Mr. Mumler of America. Having
summed up the peculiar traits of my progress in the art, I will
now proceed as succinctly as possible to mo to touch upon those
features of my experiences which may be more interesting from
their philosophical or scientific character, which to the extent of my
ability I will generalise as follows :—
1st. My sensuous experiences of the abnormal condition preceding
and accompanying operations.
I think that I cannot describe the dawn of the influence better
than as a sort of nervous excitement, accompanied by spasmodic
twitching .of the muscular system, principally those .muscles that
are subject to the will, although there is perhaps some degree of
sympathetic action shown by those that are not subject to the will,
and hence palpitation of the heart is often induced to a painful
degree, and, whether consequently upon this or not I do not know,
a clammy chilliness of the hands and feet. And as the time for the
process approaches, a Sense of nervous apprehension sometimes set
in—a kind of undefinable dread to a most painfully acute degree.
Thank God this is not undeviatingly the case ; but the moment the
operation commences, all my mental faculties seem to be condensed
upon the most painfully and intensely anxious desire for the success¬
ful issue of my efforts. This, I say, I feel to an extent incon¬
ceivable to those who have not experienced it. In many instances
the oppressiveness of this state of mind is absolute agony, and at such
times of extreme sensitiveness, the remarks of sceptical people
inflict upon me the greatest pain and perturbation, and the nervous
irritation I feel at the bare apprehemion of failure is so great that
the suggestion to change anything, nay, even the movement of a
hand, renders it difficult for me to repress an exclamation corre¬
sponding to such feelings. The approach of the influence is at once
detected by me, and frequently seems to occur with the mere
thought of the subject, or when expecting a visitor on business of
a spiritual character. Frequently this sense is of a most painful
character, and I have suffered in nerve and mind torture of a most
intense kind; yet, I am happy to state, that in the case of my com¬
pany being trustful and sympathetic, all this gives way to a sense
of extatic repose, that seems to turn the darkness of my soul into
glad sunshine, quelling the sadness of melancholia with the sooth¬
ing of a bright and happy influence, which characterises the whole
of the semi-somnolent state. Indeed, it is requisite that all present
with me, and especially all concerned in the process of spiritual
photography, be iu a state of evident sympathy with me. By this
I mean that they must not feel towards me any sense of suspicion as
to my character or mistrust of my actions, and their manner should
bo kindly and congenial; any act of mistrust on their part, whether
for themselves, or for the sake' of others, is detrimental to that
moral passivity -or mental repose that is requisite on the part of
the medium, as well as those present, to approximate at least to the
conditions requisite for a successful issue to the proceedings.
It is impossible for spirits to co-operate with the wills of
those concerned in their manifestations if their mental and
nervous atmospheres do not harmoniously combine so as to effect
the state of ‘ rapport.’ It is to this spiritual blending of soul as
characterised by the idiosyncrasy of the medium that we are
indebted for those manifestations of spirit existence by photo¬
graphy or otherwise, and it is in accord with the degree of the
faith, goodwill, and earnestness of hope and- desire that our oppor¬
tunity of recognising departed friends will occur, and this is, as I
have in some measure hinted before, purely because those elements
of sympathy and friendship that are the affinities established on
earth, as positive elements in the character and being of the sitter,
require that all concerned in the manifestation shall be reduced to
the same harmonised plane of negative passivity which is the
receptive condition in which the spirit finds little difficulty in'
approaching its earthly friend, no opposing force to the idiosyncrasy
of its character can be found in so purely negative an element as
that evolved under such circumstances.
Science, unfortunately, is not in a condition to deal with such a
state of things as this ; because, being based upon material observa¬
tions, it necessarily condemns those facts that cannot be reduced by
the principles of induction that she requires, and she derides them as
subjective and illusory; but it is interesting to observe how clearly
this conflict between spiritual and scientific minds was conceived
eighteen hundred years ago, when Jesus said, “ Whosoever shall
not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, shall not enter it ”
(Luke xviii. 17); and, “ Except a man be born again, he cannot
see the kingdom of God” (John iii. 3); that is, I take it, Jree
from prejudice, at least; and the dogmas necessary to enforce as
axioms the requisite conditions, all show to the spiritual
student the egregious fallacy of computing the value of religious or
spiritual revelation on thp basis of ordinary scientific hypotheses.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
Dec. 10, 1875.
Those who would commune with angels must put on the wedding
garinent of the bidden guest, must wear the garb of angels, and
must surround themselves with a moral atmosphere that will not
taint that which spirits can breathe. If they want friends whom •
they love, love and holy harmony must characterise their meetings ;
if they want false demons^ whose affinities are mammon, who would
consume them, sit then in a state of sin and doubt, subjectively
theorising in a material mire, with which prejudice strives to
bespatter all things offered to the contemplation of its slave; it has
neither love of God or man ; its wisdom is of so dark an order that
it admits not of faith, nor hope, nor charity, and the only god that
it can surely worship is that of its own creation, built up of selfish¬
ness and conceit, whose courts ring with vain and profane
boastings, the god in which every votary selfishly gloats, seeing
himself, more or less mirrored therein, giddily mistaking his own
shadow for the god of science. Indeed, I desire to impress you with
the fact that mental and moral conditions are of the utmost impor¬
tance, and these are of two characters, attractive and repellent in
proportion to their combinations, which vary in innumerable shades;
these are—
Firstly, attractive. Goodwill; confidence in the operations and in¬
tentions of spirits and mediums at work; mental passivity; friend¬
liness; thankfulness. These constitute faith, hope, and charity.
Secondly, repellent or counteracting conditions. Doubt of
spiritual existence; suspicion of medium, or any one present; dis¬
sension, discussion, aud distrust in any shape. It is no reduc¬
tion of the state of mistrust to represent that certain tests are done
for the sake of other people. This course is bad in itself, and
worse because it suggests distrust of the medium, and mental har¬
mony is at once destroyed. I think it will be clearly seen here
why Scientific tests fail so frequently, and more especially because
science is based upon inferences drawn by natural induction,—a
system that necessarily would fetter the principles of spiritual
agency within the limits of a material bondage. I will not quote
(Scripture here, but merely attract your attention to the fact that,
in the New Testament especially, perhaps in the life of Christ and
teachings of St. Paul, are conveyed instructions of the most lucid
character for spit dual conditions such as possibly science cannot
demonstrate by any material analogy. I think I need not tire with
further particulars of the moral condilions, and will therefore give
the physical conditions requisite to enable the spiritual agents to
operate by means of these moral conditions. It is required that
I should sit for an hour or more per day, in fact, until I am im¬
pressed with the ideal conviction that I have sat long enough in
my dark room to effect the purpose. At times I am informed by
raps that I may leave, and at others a distinctly heard voice gives
me the permission.
All the chemicals should be kept in this dark room, and no one
should be allowed to go in or even to look inside. I have not kept
these conditions rigidly, but have had to suffer accordingly; there¬
fore I do not mean to assert that it is impossible to take a spirit-
photograph without the strictest observance of all these conditions,
but I do mean most positively to asseverate that success cannot be
fully attained without, and that the breach of any one of them
inflicts most serious mental or nervous suffering upon the medium,
as much mental effort is demanded to overcome the aberrations of
the psychic element thus induced by the admission into it of elements
possessed of opposing or disturbing characters to attributes of the
medial primary force. This fact will be found to be a most inte¬
resting field in the study of metaphysical science about opening to
the world in modern Spiritualism. I assure you that I suffer loss
of memory to a most painful extent from this cause alone, and I
firmly believe that if I were to consent to continue my experiments
in spiritual photography under such imperfeet conditions as I have
not infrequently allowed, that absolute mental derangement would
ensue. The camera must be mesmerised by some mediumistic
person whose character is sympathetic with the medium. It is
imputed to Mahomet to have said, “ There are two things which I
abhor—the learned man in his infidelities, and the fool in his devo¬
tions ; ” and I quite agree with Mahomet, for I consider that these
are two out of the enemies to the advance of spiritual knowledge—
first, the scientific sceptic, whose vanity is sucji that he cannot brook
the introduction of any truth which is beyond the measure of his
mental calibre; secondly, the fool who immediately accepts as super¬
natural all that he cannot or does not understand—fogs and stains
on photographic plates in particular ; but thirdly, and above all, the
learned humbug, who is a carping hypocrite to the very backbone,
toning his sceptical theories so as to enlist the sympathies of preju¬
dice in any shape, and so loses that faint glimmering of spiritual
light which haply might be springing up in his soul, extinguishing
the perception of some of the sublimest and most vital truths which
God in His love and mercy has vouchsafed to man. Respecting the
power of discerning or seeing of spirits, much has been written and
said by science, and it is in that direction a favourite hypothesis
that spiritual visions are subjective and illusory; and this is con¬
ceived to be the case principally on account of three circumstances,
viz., firstly, because the spectres are said to bo seen in the dark as
though by a bright light, although there is no light in the place;
secondly, because whilst some persons profess to see them, they are
yet invisible to others present at the same time; thirdly, because of
their absolute indifference to the opposing force of solid substances,
furniture, etc.,—nay, even bolted doors or walls offering no obstruc¬
tion to their progress or admission. <
I here offer it as my humble opinion that it is on these three
points that spiritual photography casts very great light, and I will
endeavour to illustrate this by narrating an account of some ex¬
periments. Last autumn (1874) I was induced to make some at¬
tempts to take spiritual photographs in a seance room, with a fire
in it, by the aid of the magnesium light, as some present are aware,
and I found that although aberration of the psychic element, in¬
ducing distortions and disproportions of the spiritual image
occurred to a greater degree than in daylight, yet, upon the
whole I was tolerably successful. It was Under these circum¬
stances that I noticed that whilst the sitter cast an intense
shadow on the background the spirit did not seem to inter¬
cept the light in the least degree. Here was a field for much
thoughtful labour, and aided by my kind spirit friend, Dr. Wooley,
I had often observed a spirit standing bn the same spot as the
table beside the sitter, aye, I have seen the sitter invested by the
form of the spirit, as the end of the rainbow may sometimes bo
seen to penetrate a distant tree or cottage, without the least dis-.
turbance or inconvenience to either, so the absence of shadow caused
it to recur to my mind that the spirits had stated in my earlier
communications with them that there were no shadows on or about
the spiritual figure. This struck me as an impossibility, for,
thought I, how can form and definition be manifest without contrast
of light and shade ? but the conviction of this truth was brought to
me, through my spirit friends, in ch'cumstauces I will endeavour to
describe. I am generally able to see the spirits present at the time
I am photographing, especially if they are interested in the pro¬
cess ; in this case they usually present themselves. in a state of re¬
markable whiteness; the appearance of light seems to arise in the
purity of this whiteness, and their success in representing them¬
selves on the sensitised plate seems due more or less to this power;
in cases of low power the white seems to decline into a yellowish
drab, and sometimes grey. Whilst attending to the burning of
the magnesium wire during the process, my eyes were much
affected by the intensity of the light, and to my great
surprise, I found that my spiritual vision was much interrupted
by the spectrum produced on the retina. Whilst cogitating in sur¬
prise that the material vision should so affect the spiritual, I was
told that it was the result of that necessary sympathy that exists
between the material and spiritual organisation, and which is requi¬
site to maintain the state of harmony by which body and soul are
united. Close upon this circumstance followed the surprising
discovery that I could see the spirit without turning my face, or
even my eyes, to the background, but merely by directing my
thoughts to the subject. Now it occurred to me, that if the spirit
were objective, as I had no doubt it was, it must possess the power
of projecting its light through my skull to the point of perception,
without the need of the optical apparatus of the eye to carry it
there, so I determined to try an experiment as to the power of
spirit-light to pass through opaque substances, and I was some¬
what strengthened in my hope that it would prove to be the case,
because’ the spirits had said so as far back as May 24th, 1872. Then
Mr. Burns attended a seance where 1 was controlled by a spirit who
said that the lens had nothing to do with the spiritual photograph,
this flashed upon my mind with the idea that, as the spiritual
visitors were not amenable to the optical power of the lens, they
would not be so to the spectroscope or the binocular camera, but, to
demonstrate this with absolute certainty, I devised, by the aid of
Dr. Wooley, the following experiments. I placed in the middle of
the camera a small looking-glass, at an angle of 45 degrees,
so as to reflect the image or images coming in through the
lens upon the side of the camera. I then sensitised two glass
plates, and, having placed one that had been prepared ordi¬
narily on the side, and one prepared spiritually in the usual
place, and behind my little reflector, I took my seat as a sitter,
enveloped in a white • table-cloth, to reflect the light and to
reduce the time of sitting, the lens being uncapped and the mag¬
nesium light on. I sat about fifty or sixty seconds, then proceeded
to develops the plates. The result was that my image came most
imperfectly at the side of the camera, and the spirit at the back.
This was quite what I expected, but a most interesting circum¬
stance was here made apparent. You are aware, I presume, that
the camera takes the object in an inverted position, a fact that the
late Mr. John Leech made subject to his keen sense of the
ridiculous. One of his humorous pictures represents a certain
Miss Priscilla, a somewhat antiquated prude, being aware
that her image would appear in the camera standing upon
its head, had taken the wise and modest precaution to tie her
dress about her ankles with her handkerchief, but in the case of
the spirit who appeared on my plate this was needless, for lo! it
was upright! As you may imagine, I was much astonished at this
unexpected circumstance; but my spirit friends explained that as
their images were not amenable to the glass lens, they were not
inverted by it; yet in the case of a spirit placing itself by the side
of a sitter, it was of course requisite to produce an inverted image,
and herein was one of their greatest difficulties in taking spirit
photographs. Having recleaned and resensitised these same
plates, and having proved by the means just related that the
psychic element which operates on the plate, be it mesmerism or an
actinism of a far subtler nature than the ordinary, was . not
amenable to material- conditions, I was induced to try another
experiment some days after (when I had a sitter), which was to
place two spiritually sensitised glass plates one behind the other in
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 10, 1875.
the dark slide, and so expose them, expecting, as not only glass but
mahogany also was transparent to the spiritual aura, its penetration
might produce a photograph on the second in addition to the first
plate; but this proved not to be the case for the whole of the force
of the aura was expended upon the one plate, and therefore could not
reach the under one. But to return to my former position. After
I had recleailed the plates I thought I would sensitise one in my
dark room spiritually, and the other ordinarily in the room where
it was to be exposed, which I did by the very feeble light of a
paraffine lamp. I was resolved to try an experiment upon my
mental condition, which I did as follows: I obtained a soup plate,
which I floated in a pan of water, and whilst in that position, with
my eyes closed I placed the glass plates in it, as shown in the
diagram, so that I might not know which was the spiritually
prepared glass, and then to render it more sure I set the soup plate
whirling, and after several turns took them out and placed them
in the camera. By this means I was quite unable to tell which was
prepared in the dark room, and which in the room in which I
was photographing. The result was no spirit. I again cleaned
the glasses, and having marked the one I intended to spiritualise,
that I might after the experiment recognise it, I acted precisely
as before, and although the spiritualised plate fell into its place once
or twice during these trials, yet I could get no spiritual photo¬
graph. Thus was my inquiry answered as to whether doubt or
uncertainty in my mind affected the success of the operation.
Again I made the attempt, but in this instance I omitted the whirl¬
ing and knew the position of the plates; the result was, as in the
first instance,* a spirit-photograph. I made several experiments
subsequently of a similar character, and the results were precisely
similar, proving that any uncertainty or doubt in my mind had in
itself sufficient potency to destroy the spiritual power.
I must now draw your attention to a very remarkable feature in
my photographs, i.e., that there is always, more or Jess, a kind of
mistiness, or want of focal concentration, in the appearance of the
spirit, which arises from two causes:—Firstly, that as the spirit
figures are not amenable to the lens, of course I cannot focus
them; I generally see them, and however the camera is moved,
backwards or forwards, it makes no difference to their appear¬
ance, so that I am obliged to place the instrument in just such a
position as the spirit’s appearance demands, so as to harmonise it
with the sitter. Secondly, the light or psychic element, by which
the spirits are photographed, not being reflected, but emanating
spontaneously from them, they cast no shadow, and the expression'
of their forms can only be received upon the plate-by means of the
varied or modified intensity of their luminosity, which you may
better comprehend by comparing them to a flame, where you see the
contrast effected by the dark part of it beside the brighter. I think
you will feel no difficulty in perceiving by this means the cause of
the flatness frequently presented by the photographs of my spirits,
depth of shadow being most difficult to obtain under such circum¬
stances, more especially that extremely fine gradation of shade
producing the optical effect of rotundity. We all know that the
sun and moon appear to be flat discs from the same simple cause,
and were you to photograph a white flame of any shape, you could
only get a flat picture, whose outline alone resembled the original.
Herein, then, rests the most striking difference between the photo¬
graph of the sitter and that of the spirit: the former is taken by a
reflected light projected from his body, and the latter is the result
of the psychic element that originates from the spirit, and is, there¬
fore, not a photograph, but a psychograph, and I here venture to
offer these propositions, namely, if the spirits are photographed, may
they not only be taken by stereoscopic or binocular camera ? and,
for the same reason, are they not amenable to such laws as would
render the spectroscope available as a means of analysing their com¬
position ? If the common error were true that spirits must be mate-,
rialised to be photographed, it is clear that the subject comes at once
within the range of the science of physics. But surely this is
not so, for I think we have proved that the light emanating from a
spiritual body is as spiritual as its source. In the various histories
of ghosts, ancient and modern, do we not read of their being seen
in the dark by their self-emanating luminosity. Indeed, this is the
most common form of manifestation. Again, do we not read of their
passing into houses and rooms with closed and locked doors and
windows, and are there not many instances of their penetrability by
passing across rooms, heedless of obstructions, as furniture, &c., for
they pass through them? I cannot do better than refer you to Mrs.
Crowe’s Night Side of Nature for authentic records of this character,
it is published by Boutledge and Co. for 2s. Now observe how
these conditions of the spiritual body affect the photograph!:
supposing it to be behind the sitter, if weak it will appear so; if
stronger, as if investing him with its gauzy frame; and if more
intense, as if in front of him. I have before attempted to show that
the size and perspective of the spirit prove nothing in ‘this respect,
on account of their being unaffected by the focal power of the lens,
Again, if the intensity is such that the develope rproduces opacity,
then jthe spirit obscures the sitter although behind him, and appears
most deceptively in front. Now, in conclusion, as to conditions,
my conditions as they now exist are fully as follows: and it is
hoped that what I have stated, with further explanations which I
shall attempt to give, will be sufficient to show that they are not as
many suppose, setup as stumbling-blocks to investigators, but the
actual means of placing certain things at the disposal of spiritual
agencies; just as science must be material in its mode of thought,
calling electricity a fluid and speaking of it as a current, so must
we in addressing material minds speak of the psychic element as a
fluid, commonly calling it animal magnetism, but this animal mag¬
netism is perhaps best defined as the least substantial of matter and
the most so of spirit. It is the plastic means of spirit tenure
upon earthly dwellers, and the flowing river connecting the
shores of this and the other world. The sum total of the different
phases of character, the idiosyncrasy of the medium,determines the
peculiar kind of power he may manifest, or, strictly speaking, the
kind of manifestation. The application of this substance to anything
spiritualises it or renders it susceptible to influence, be it table,
chair, or photographic plates and chemicals. The fact is, that when
anything is to be placed at the service of the spirits, it has to be
charged with this psychic element which is characterised by
the mediumistic mind. Spiritual communion and photography
appear in some manner to be very intimately connected with
my mind and meditfmship. I believe that this peculiar attri¬
bute of the mental psychic element or aura to become charac¬
terised and developed has much, if not all, to do with the
human power of acquiring proficiency in the fine arts, music,
and painting, hence that genius in these directions is at
least a species of medial development. The spirits are enabled
to handle those things which are duly charged with this wonderful
element, provided they are in characteristic harmony with the mental
idiosyncrasy of the medium, or of those in such sympathy with his
as to enable them to combine or effect the necessary association of
power. The conditions I am directed by my spirit friends to ob¬
serve have been doubtlessly regarded by sceptical persons to be
simply devised for the purpose of resisting all attempts to investi¬
gate the phenomena thoroughly, and I must admit that from the
common standpoint of material philosophy there appears to be
much food for suspicion, and I here positively aver that I never yet
saw or read of a spiritual manifestation that was not in some way
open to the ready theories of suspicion.
Suspicion is surely the mother of scandal; so great is the family
likeness they never were known to be quiet or to lack a subject for
their animadversions.
Many suspicious circumstances have occurred to me in my own
mediumship as regards myself, but as I could not suspect myself of
playing off a trick for the sole purpose of deceiving myself, I could
not suspect spirits to have evil intentions against me, so I have
been enabled to judge on this point as none but a medium may, but
in this and the mental suffering it has cost me, I have read a grand
and glorious lesson. It is that those who would enter upon that
kingdom which Christ taught was at hand, who would reach over
its glorious threshold, must put on the garb of Faith, Hope, and
Charity, leaving science as far too narrow in its material phases
for the students of Divine Light, and follow the teachings of those
spiritual authors who say that your faith should not stand in the
wisdom of men, but in the power of God. (1 Cor. ii. 5.)
But the natural man perceiveth not the things of the Spirit of God,
for they are foolishness unto him; neither can he know them,
because they are spiritually discerned (verse 14 same chapter), and
I state that faith, hope, and charity are the conditions for
spiritual progress, but the greatest of these is charity. Charity
suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunt-
eth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself, un¬
seemly, seeketh not her own,' is not easily provoked, thinketh
no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth,
beareth all things, believeth all things, endureth all things
(ver. 4, 5, 6 and 7). But such a state of things is rare; at
least, I, have been compelled to adopt just such conditions as would
not have been needed otherwise; 1st—perfect sanctity of the dark
room, no soul but myself to be allowed to go or look in; 2nd—ditto
respecting camera; 3rd—to keep all chemicals relating to the camera
process in the dark room, and not to allow them to be contaminated
by any other touch than my own; 4th—to sit in the dark room at
least two hours prior to a sitting for the purpose of spiritualising
the chemicals; 5th—to collodionise, sensitise, develope, and fix the
plate in the dark room. As I have said before, I do not mean to
assert that the breach of any one of these conditions would be fatal
to the getting of a spirit photograph, for, on th,e contrary, I have
often succeeded in the breach of one or more of them, but at such a
cost of nervous or mental pain and health that a little repetition of
it would soon remove me from the scene of my earthly labours, and
therefore I have been compelled to desist from such departures from
the laws of my spiritual controls. My good and wise friend Dr.
Wooley has, after much careful observation, been able to make me
comprehend the principles and the necessity for the observance of
these conditions; for he says they are framed to accord with and to
enable the free action of certain spiritual laws, empowering them to
act in harmony with material laws, a section of the great principle of
correspondence which he terms the parallel action of spiritual and
material forces, and he explains this to apply to the modus operandi
of the spirit in the process of spiritual photography in the following
manner: The chemicals and glasses having been impressed or
charged with my characteristic aura, so as to be rendered sensitive
to spiritual action, are ready for work; the means by which this is
accomplished I have before described. You will now perceive that
the plate under these conditions becomes spiritually as well as
materially sensitive. The developer is also capable of acting
spiritually, provided it is worked in the sphere of my own unqon-
taminated aura, and the same, indeed, in every part of the
Dec. 10, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST,
285
process, one of the grandest conditions being the isolation of
ray aura, by means of the dark room being held sacredly
free from the intrusion of aiiy otherwise characterised aura, whether
the same bo introduced either bodily or mentally. The sensitiveness
of the glass plate to spiritual action is maintained by the mesmerising
of the camera; in these conditions lies all that can be done by the
medium, the rest lies' with the sitter and those present. If they
are truly spiritually-minded, their success will be perfect, and in this
sense I use the expressive language of our Lord, “be it according
to thy faith.” I think it behoves every Spiritualist to study the
great law of correspondence, that by it he may be enabled to appre¬
ciate the consistency and value of conditions: I mean the corre¬
spondence of the two worlds; for as there is a material world, so is
there a spiritual world; there is time in this, and eternity in that;
there is a spiritual body and a natural body; so there are material
deeds, or things worldly, and spiritual deeds, or things heavenly.
The acts of a man’s life here are producing corresponding results
in a spiritual sense, and so preparing his place in the great hereafter.
In accord with this principle of correspondence, there are two sides
to every question concerning spiritual manifestations which may be
hypothetically reduced, viz., the material and the spiritual; hence,
while-one class of thinkers imagines that the fact proves the hypo¬
thesis, some think that another hypothesis would explain the fact.
Hence the tendency of the mind to materiality or spirituality
decides the result, and herein science hangs upon the horns of a
dilemma. I will not claim your patience while I relate the
several absurd theories that have been invented to account for the
phenomena as imposture; but, in concluding, merely state in a few
words my motive; this 1 do first negatively. 1 do not desire
notoriety, nor to make money by the process; I shall never make
it, because success demands the utmost purity of purpose. Truly,
I have charged for sittings, but simply with the view of meeting the
expenses incurred by loss of time and cost of materials, and for
nearly three years I gave all free sittings, as many can testify,
until misfortune compelled another course. All I can say is, it is
one of the most glorious gifts imparted by God to man; and if I
can induce sufficiently spiritually-minded men to go homo to prayer¬
fully and persistently practise in their own. families, we shall soon
have abundant testimony of this great truth, and I shall find an
ample and a glorious reward.
I stand here more for the purpose of asseverating the truth of
spirit photography than for the purpose of contending with scientific
men, who simply possess the power, as I do myself, of imitating
the results, and I admit that they can produce the imitations by very
simple means. In truth, they can produce far better artistic results
than those which I come here simply to assert to be true. I have
no desire to go on taking spirit photographs; I do not want
notoriety; I have kept out of print as much as I can ; indeed those
who have drawn me into printing the results know that I have long
objected to it, not alone from that nervousness which is charac¬
teristic of mediums, but because I thought that it would be in¬
jurious in many ways. Spirit photography, I think, cannot be
made remunerative; at all events I now give little time to it, and
am so tied to my ordinary business that it was only by asking per¬
mission that I was able to come here to-night.
The secretary, Miss Kislipgbury, then read the following letter
from Mr. Charles Blackburn:—
Dear Miss Kislingbitry,—Herewith are a few spirit photo¬
graphs, numbered consecutively, by our mutual friend, Mr. Dami-
ani, of Naples, who gave me them to show to Mr. Harrison ; and
in proof of their genuineness, they were taken whilst he was pre¬
sent, at three o’clock in the day, at the top of his own residence,
which has a flat roof. The medium was the “Baroness Oerrapica”
(with whom I had a pleasant evening and trance seance).
No. 1 shows her seated in front of a bird cage, with Major
"Vigilante a little to her right; Miss Bossenberg behind the cage,
and a Roman Catholic “ Capon Fieri,” standing up behind a chair;
whilst Mrs. Damiani sits next to Miss Rossenberg, but is almost
extinguished by the spirit-light; Mr. Damiani and the artist, a
young medium, not in view. This was the 1st attempt.
No. 2, shows, the same parties, 2nd „
3rd „
,, 4, „ .an additional person, 4th „
„ 5, „ Sig. Damiani in it, 5th „
„ ,, a lady,“FrenchMedium,” 6th „
(With Major Saville and others, with a hand
appearing above a screen which had been put
up to try for faces.)
„ 6, shows the same parties, last attempt, viz., 7th.
The photographer is not a professor, but only an assistant in a
shop, whom Mr. Damiani knows, and who got him to bring his
4apparatus to try if such a thing were possible as spirit photographs,
the results up to now are herewith, and are to be continued. I told
Mr. Damiani that faces or forms appearing would never satisfy me
(or the world), unless they were recognisable as deceased friends,
in which he quickly acquiesced, but added, “ We must begin with
what comes,”
Of course these photos, can be on view at Great Russell-street,
for the benefit or curiosity of visitors, for a few weeks, and then
I claim them, as being the first from any truly reliable source on
which I could depend.—Very truly yours, Ohas. Blackburn.
Inns of Court Hotel, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds, London, W.C.,
Saturday, 4th Deo., 1876.
Mr. A. L. Henderson said that as* a member of the National
Association of Spiritualists, and as a convert to the phenomena
called spiritual, he wished to know whether Mr. Parkes re¬
membered pne of his earlier pictures in which a cross was intro¬
duced. If so, could he explain why the background was imperfectly
stopped out in such a way as to show that it had been done by
>hand.
Mr. Parkes said that he remembered the picture, but that the
background had not been stopped out at all, and he should like to
submit it to some other photographer to have the point settled. If
Mr. Henderson meant to say that he did it, all he could say was
that such was not the case. Still if they searched his pictures
■through they would find more suspicious things even than that,
and although he was perfectly aware of the fact, it did not stop
him from laying them before the public. All he said was that he
could not account for them.
Mr. Henderson asked would he submit that picture to an expert
in photography ?
Mr.. Parkes said that Mr. Reeves had taken away that and many
of the other early negatives to America, but his more recent nega¬
tives anybody might have.
Mr. Henderson asked how it was that in some of the pictures the
spirits produced themselves in positive form on negative plates.
Mr. Parkes said that he did not know that such was the case ; as
he was a photographer, such a fact would not have been likely to
have escaped his observation, but would have made a strong im¬
pression upon him ; if such a thing had occurred, he could not give
any reason for it.
Mr. Henderson said that a long time ago he made him an indirect
offer of £50, to be paid to the National Association, or any other
institution, for a seance at which spirit photographs should be pro¬
duced under test conditions, but that. no notice had been taken of
his offer; Buguet also refused to let him have a test seance.
Mr. Parkes said that he believed that a successful spirit photo¬
graph could not be bought with money, and that if he went to Mr.
Henderson’s studio he should probably fail to obtain one. Mr.
Henderson might attribute it to whatever cause he pleased, but he
(Mr. Parkes) now knew why he could not get spirit photographs
under those conditions.
Mr. Henderson remarked that all investigation appeared to be
shut out, and that Mr. Parkes might be the greatest impostor
living.
Baron Holmfeld asked whether any of the photographs had been
identified as the portraits of people who had departed this life.
Mr. Parkes said that several of them had been so recognised.
The Baron remarked: As you say that they have been iden¬
tified, I believe you.
Mr. Parkes replied: I appreciate your sympathy, and my feeling
is one of gratitude.
Mr. A. Joy narrated how he had obtained fair evidence that
genuine spirit photographs had been produced in America.
Dr. Hallock said that in the midst of the many doubts that had been
broached in the discussion, an incident in the Old Testament had
been brought to his mind, how in the presence of Pharaoh several
persons could make snakes, but the snake of one particular man ate
up all the others. In the case of the photographs the serpent which
would swallow up all the others would be the absolute and unmis¬
takable portrait of a person in the other life. He (Dr. Hallock)
would never put a single foundation stone of his faith in Spirit¬
ualism upon anything which' depended merely upon the character
of the medium. Where the test conditions were not good, he might
admit the probability or otherwise of the manifestations being
genuine, but should feel that they were not proved. People of all
kinds of moral character were mediums.
Mr. Parkes said that the recognition of a spirit photograph was
to his mind the only true test.
Dr. Sexton remarked that although the spirits would not let any¬
body enter the dark room with Mr. Parkes, he had by their permis¬
sion watched the process all the way through by gazing through a
sheet of glass fixed in the door for the purpose.
Mr. Harrison said that his acquaintance with Mr. Parkes, al¬
though a very slight one, had induced a feeling of respect for him,
and he thought that all the listeners ought to be grateful to Mr.
Parkes for tlie unreserved way in which he had stated his experi¬
ences that evening. He (Mr. Harrison) had never seen a' spirit
photograph taken by anybody under test conditions, but the nearest
approach to such a seance took place one day with Buguet. He
(Mr. Harrison) had had about sixteen years’ experience as an
amateur photographer and writer for the British Journal of Photo¬
graphy, had taken thousands of pictures, some of them by recondite
processes not practised by the trade, and he knew every mode by
which sham ghosts could be produced. He had watched Buguet all
through his operations, entering his every action at the moment it
was performed, in a pocket-book in shorthand, and he had been
unable to find out any trickery. What he thus saw and noted had.
been published in IVie Spiritualist. Buguet gave Mr. Crookes the
same facilities, and Mr. Crookes could discover nd tricks; but both
of them had wished for further seances from Buguet to sift the
matter. Where the test conditions were not good, another question,
besides the iiategritj* of the photographer, came into play, namely,
the integrity of the spirits, and he was sorry to say that he knew
for certain that the lowest of the latter, more often than was sup¬
posed, made desperate attempts to impose upon sitters, even where
THE SEIHITUALTST.
286
Dec. 10, 1875.
the latter, as -well as the mecfium, were good and truthful people -}
they had attempted such deception when there were no inharmoni¬
ous conditions in the circle, or mental or spiritual states to invite
evil. He agreed with Dr. Hallock that not one atom of a man’s
belief in the facts at the root of Spiritualism should be based upon
faith. Mr. Dale Owen had had too much faith, and had been wofully
deceived in America; the Spiritualists in Paris had had too
much faith, they had therefore been deceived, and one of them was
now being sent to prison, although an innocent man. Mr. Parkes
was more or less in a trance whilst preparing the plates in the dark
room, and how did he know what the spirits were then doing with
him ? Could they not do double-printing, as they sometimes
brought commonplace drapery to materialisation seances? Once
while Mr. Parkes was sitting as a medium for physical manifesta¬
tions in the dark, he woke- up to find himself crawling about the
room on all fours when he ought to have been in his place. This
gave him a fright, for he knew that if unfriendly people had de¬
tected this they woixld have put it down as ah attempt at imposture;
if he was thus so much in the power of spirits, how could he hold
himself responsible for his acts in the photographic room ? Ee-
cently a considerable amount of evidence had accumulated, and
had been published in The Spiritualist, tending to prove that when
human beings are asleep their spirits leave their bodies, and are
active in another state of existence, sometimes moreover interfering
with the affairs of earth, and producing physical effects. What
evidence was there then that Mr. Henderson did not leave his body
in sleep, and that Mr. Henderson had not manufactured all the
alleged spirit photographs which he now censured, believing them
to be taken by Mr. Parkes ? (Laughter.)
Mr. Henderson said that he thought that Mr. Harrison was
wrong in saying that he knew every method by which imitation
spirit photographs could be produced. He (Mr. Henderson) had
allowed a person to bring his own plates, and to take a picture
himself, while he (Mr. Henderson) did nothing but look on all
through the operations, yet a ghost came out upon the plate which
had been artificially put there by means unknown to the manipu¬
lator. More recently he had found out another way of throwing
forms upon the plate.
Mr. Harrison said that he thought that Mr. Henderson per¬
formed the trick he had mentioned, by fixing a transparency in
the dipping bath, where.it would be out of sight of the operator,
and'that the wooden box containing the glass bath'was so con¬
structed that the act of shutting down the lid of it ‘opened a
crevice somewhere, through which light would pass through the
transpareney on to the plate while it was being sensitised in the
bath; thus the whole thing could be done automatically, and the
operator know nothing about it.
Mr. Henderson remarked that that wa^ a way by which what he
had stated might be done. *
Dr. Sexton made a few remarks to the effect that when a
medium had once been caught in imposture, he ought never to
be admitted again into the Spiritual movement, although he might
possess genuine power, for the sitters would always be uncertain
about him, and it was impossible to put on test conditions at
every seance.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
THE PSYCHCiLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening last week the ordinary foi-tnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society was held at its rooms, 11, Chandos-
street, Cavendish-square, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, read the minutes of the
last meeting, which were confirmed. He then announced that the
society numbered over sixty members.
The President said that the weather was so bad that many mem¬
bers who intended to be present were snowed in; indeed, the
attendance had been so thinned by the weather that the Council
had resolved to adjourn-the conclusion of the discussion of that
evening until the next meeting.
Mr. Serjeant Cox ppened the discussion by reading an abstract,
drawn up by himself, of the opinions of Professor Tyndall, as set
forth in the article in the Fortnightly Review. He said: Professor
Tyndall’s argument rests upon assumptions which we emphatically
dispute. First, he assumes that what we call “ matter ” is the only
form of being. Second, he asserts that if there be any other form
of being it is imperceptible to us, therefore unknown and unknow¬
able, and therefore out of the circle of knowledge—an imagination
merely—incapable of exploration, and that time and thought be¬
stowed upon it are merely wasted. Third—that all we see and
know of ourselves is material—that is to say, wo are made of
matter and obey the laws of matter, we are formed of matter and
as matter we are dissolved and dissipated and disappear and are
seen and known no more. We distinctly challenge these conclu¬
sions. We assert there are facts and phenomena that admit of no
other conclusion than the existence of some intelligence in the body
that is not the body. It would take a volume to describe them—I
can only suggest a few of them. The phenomena of dream, of som¬
nambulism, of trance, of psychism, prove to demonstration that
there is something in the body that can perceive and act without
the aid of the material senses and far beyond their range of action;
that being is manifestly something other than the body, something
not molecular, constructed of some other combination of atoms—
that is the thing, whatever it be, we call Soul—and this is the
thing whose, existence psychology therefore affirms, and whose
nature and qualities it is the province of psychology to investigate.
At the conclusion of the reading of the summary, there was a
prolonged pause, after which
Mi-. F. K. Munton said—Some twenty years ago, when very
young, I was honorary secretary to a small debating club not a
hundred miles from Liucoln’s-inu, and the experienced gentleman
in the chair at that time complained that I did not perform my duty
as such secretary, and he impressed upon my mind the constant
necessity of making myself useful when there was a lull iu the
debate, by filling up the gap. (Laughter.) The question then
under discussion was of an important character, and one upon
which almost every one in the room had something to say, yet at
the outset there was a lull, somewhat as on the present occasion,
which I now rise to break, in accordance with the advice then given.
The question we have under our consideration to-night is, I think,
about the most important one which any human being, male or
female, could study, for if Professor Tyndall’s views are wholly
correct, they will destroy all the earlier teachings of our lives and
of those of our forefathers. I need not say that if we disagree
with what he has said we must approach the subject in a grave and
serious manner, for Professor Tyndall is a man whose opinions
carry the greatest weight. At the same time, however clever a
man may be, if he once asserts that he has come to a certain con¬
clusion, and that he will not inquire further as to whether such
conclusion can be answered or not, we are entitled to complain of
that course of action. He and Professor Huxley have iu effect said
that they would not inquire into the alleged evidence that there is
something outside the material universe. The Psychological
Society says: “ We believe there is something outside the body,
and there is positive evidence that that something exists.”
It is proved by certain phenomena, which many of us have
tested; we do not attempt to say from what cause, these phe¬
nomena come, -but we have sufficient evidence to induce us to
place ourselves before the public, and demand further patient
inquiry; at all events the question is entitled to a hearing. Quite
apart from the intrinsic merit of Professor .Tyndall's article, I
think that the way in which it is put together makes it one of the
cleverest essays which has appeared fo.r some time, but for this
very reason we must take a discount from his conclusions, and not
be led astray by his eloquence. He says that when the vapour
rises from the sea at one point, and deposits itself upon the top of a
mountain in crystal form at another, the translation and transforma¬
tion are effected by matter alone, nothing more than temperature
being necessai’y to effect the change. That this is -so none of us
have much doubt. He then tells us how, while gazing at the oak-
tree planted by Sir John Moore, that he found round about it several
straggling oaklets, and he thinks nothing but matter and its inhe¬
rent forces was necessary to produce them. What makes it grow ?
says he. What makes human beings grow? Nothing but matter.
He ignores a soul altogether, but towards the end of his article he
becomes less bold. What evidence can the Psychological Society
give against Professor Tyndall’s conclusions ? If I establish that
the smallest of our alleged facts is a fact, and that that fact fends to
show that he is wrong, it does not matter how small that fact may
be. I say the phenomena have been abundantly proved. The Psy¬
chological Society has been said to be a society of Spiritualists,
consequently, materialists have an objection to it; whereas, the
truth is that the society stands between the two. It does not say
that either of them is wrong or right; it merely says that
we have evidence to show that the phenomena are unmistakably
facts, so that only the theory remains to be supplied. I am well
aware that the discussion of this subject has been tabooed, and that
one is exposed to ridicule in bringing forward the facts; most
pioneers are. When it was first prominently announced in this
country that something had been discovered outside of what was
previously known, in the circumstance that articles of furniture had
moved from one side of the room to another without being touched,
there appeared to be something ridiculous in such a statement; but
probably if it had been announced that something more remarkable
had taken place under different circumstances, without the seemingly
ludicrous furniture element, it might have gained more credence.
Now, I have, in common with others who claim to possess common
sense and to be able to pay fair attention to anything coming under
one’s notice, seen enough to be able to state that there is an unmis¬
takable something outside of what Professor Tyndall calls “mate¬
rialism.” I could give numerous instances which depend, in no way
upon paid mediums (as to whom, without casting imputation, the
public are entitled to be suspicious). But I will quote one or two
cases only. Remember that this society consists of a body of gentle¬
men who, having everything to lose and nothing to gain by paying
particular attention to the phenomena as they occur, and when wo
refer to private houses with private individuals, we are entitled
to be listened to with common respect. I may perhaps
content myself by taking one single fact, which has occurred
scores of times, with scores of different people in private
life. A slate has been made in two parts with the outer edges of
each covered with leather, so that when the two slates are shut to¬
gether, they form a kind of pocket-book, and their inner surface
cannot be touched by anything outside. Suppose I were to produce a
Dec. 10, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
slate of that kind (I personally have not the slightest power of this
character, and am only telling you what I have seen), and the
slate were placed in the hands of any lady or gentlemen here,
and that while so held in his hand a statement of twenty or a hun¬
dred words in length should be written faster than any ordinary
mortal could do it, with a crumb of pencil only between two slates,
you would either come to the conclusion that I was a conjuror, or
that there must be something which the theory of the materialist
does not cover. My contention is, that it can be'established that
these things do occur, and that the evidence is in its way conclusive
against the theory that there is nothing whatever in the universe
besides what we call matter. I do not say what is the cause of the
phenomenon, or that it has anything to do with the spirits of the
dead, for I do not know. I have no positive evidence one way or
another. But when eminent professors say there is nothing but
matter, and will not inquire into anything which tends to evidence
to the contrary, we protest against their statements.
Dr. Shaw said that he was not there to advocate any materialistic
views, but he thought that the President had scarcely stated fairly
Professor Tyndall’s arguments in the Fortnightly Revieiv; he
thought that the opinions which had been stated by the President
coincided rather with those of Professor Huxley, for he did not
think Professor Tyndall so materialistic as he had been made out to
be.* Professor Tyndall, he thought, wrote only to raise the ques¬
tion as to the fundamental character of materialism, and it ap¬
peared to the Professor to be merely a question as to the amount
of formative power within matter. He had told how snow-crystals
were formed, also how the human body was aggregated, and he
asked whether the formative power were not potential in the ele¬
ments of both of them. He (Dr. Khaw) thought that that question
had not been properly answered, and that the problem of the
existence of the soul had nothing to do with the subject. He did
not think that Professor Tyndall had spoken of the soul all through
his article; on the contaary he only asserted that the power of
growth was inherent in the tree, and asked whence came the forma¬
tive power. He (the speaker) thought the formative power was
inherent. Professor Tyndall had further made remarks about
conscience, feeling, and living, and hi§ expressions on those heads
were rather unfavourable to materialistic views.
Major Hartley said that perhaps the Psychological Society was
more at one with Professors Tyndall and Huxley than it was aware.
They were all seeking after truth. At all events they could not
suppose that brute matter constructed and sustained matter; they
knew that there was a formative power of some kind within—a power
which enabled living organisms to repair themselves when injured.
That power had led men to form the earliest kinds of religion, and
to call the power “ God.” Thus it was a very old idea that there
must be something in the world besides matter. Professors Huxley
and Tyndall were bringing forward materialistic views; they ad¬
mitted the existence of unseen forces, and it was by individualising
these forces that others got to the psyche. It might be that the
conscious psyche was not dissipated when the material form de¬
cayed, but that it manifested through that form for a time, just as
with an electrical machine electrical phenomena could be produced,
yet the machine did not create the electricity, for that was in the
room already. In an analogous manner the human brain might
make manifest an intelligence which was previously in the room,
and so long as the machine kept going, so long would they obtain
what might be called intelligent forces. At all events it was quite
certain that in the world there was both intelligence and for¬
mative force, which formative force was also seen in heredi¬
tary peculiarities. Materialists admitted that matter could
be known only by its qualities, for they were obliged to admit this
if they were driven home on the point, yet these materialistic
views were of use in opposing dogmas;,at the same time there
ought to be persons, like the members of the Psychological Society,
who tried to counteract extreme views, and bring the thoughts of
rational men towards a common centre. (Hear, hear.) He did not
think that Professors Tyndall and'Huxley were to be blamed for
not giving attention to psychological matters, for they knew that
their own facts were hard enough, and could be numbered by
millions; while those of psychologists were few and not yet classi¬
fied. The two philosophers were doing useful work in their
present grooves, and perhaps they did right to let others work in
new ones for themselves. (Applause.)
Mr. Indermaur said that he had never heard any discussion on
the subject before. The paper which they were discussing had been
written by an intelligent man who had made his mark in the world,
and what had the speakers brought against the remarks of Professor
Tyndall in the shape of arguments on the other side ? The Presi¬
dent had mentioned dreams and trances; but what were they, and
how did they tell against materialism ? A dictionary of words was
needed to show people what they were talking about. He thought
that the argument of his friend, Mr. Munton, against materialism
to be most absurd; for the writing upon a slate, of which he had
spoken, was produced by the friction of solid matter against the
slate, so had a materialistic origin, and was a strong argument in
favour of materialism. Last Friday ho (Mr. Indermaur) had been
to the Egyptian Hall to see Maskelyne and Cooke, and he recom¬
mended any opponent of Spiritualism to attend that performance.
* Professor Huxley has announced himself to be more an idealist than a
materialist, and to be interested in the philosophy of Bishop Berkeley,—Ed.
There they would see many wonderful things, and, after all, the
performers said that they had been produced by trickery; such
facts as these ought not to be brought against the arguments in
Professor Tyndall’s paper.
Mr. Rawlinson remarked that he would make a clean breast of it.
He had never read Professor Tyndall’s article, had never been
to Maskelyne and Cooke’s, and had very little belief in reference to
the writings and table motions mentioned by the secretary, yet
perhaps because of his ignorance he might arrive at clearer
'and more unbiassed views upon the subject'than some others.
Materialism said that everything in the universe was produced
and continued by matter alone, but he could not see the possibility
of the assertion being true. He could conceive that matter had the
power of constantly changing its form; but the existence of birds,
beasts, and fishes, was a different thing altogether from the
existence of man, who was controlled by mind; the fact of the
existence of intelligence made an immence distinction. He ad¬
mitted that there was an immense power of organising in matter
—of healing and reproducing its structures—but the fact of the
existence of mind could not be conceived to be due to matter.
The Chairman moved the adjournment of the discussion. As to
the assertions that had been made that Professor Tyndall’s article
was not in favour of finite rial ism, all he could say was that the
Professor said that it was an answer to the opponents of materia¬
lism, and those who picked out three or four sentences to establish
any opposite view, did not come to a fair conclusion as to the
general bearing of the whole of the essay. The Psychological
bociety said that it recognised the existence of something outside
what was called matter; this something directed the formative
forces of organised beings; in other words, there was something
in man that was not to be found in the table before him. Man had
a will, the table had none. Man had impressions, tables ha<J not.
Professor Tyndall argued that the molecules in the table, when
surrounded by other conditions so arranged themselves as to build
up the human body, and afterwards to exercise the functions of
will and intelligence, and that doctrine of materialism the Psycho¬
logical Society disputed. It asserted that in organised life there
was something which was not matter, but which was the cause of
shape and function.
The meeting was then adjourned.
^robtnctal fietos.
NOTTINGHAM.
MK. AND MRS. EYERITT IN NOTTINGHAM.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—May I ask for a little spac.e in your valuable paper to
present its readers with a short report of the late visit to Notting¬
ham of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Everitt, of London ? In reply to a
letter of mine in The Medium, a week or two since, in which I
expressed the desire to hear from normal or abnormal speakers or
mediums, who might be willing to call hero and give their services
for railway fare and entertainment, I promptly received an off< r
from Mr. Everitt (who was then on a visit to Helper) to con.e
on Sunday evening, November 28th, and give us a lecture on
Phenomenal Spiritualism, with Extracts from his Diary. Our com¬
mittee thankfully accepted the offer, and on Saturday, November
27th, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt duly arrived and were entertained by
our friends Mr. and Mrs. Westmoreland, 221, Woodborough-road,
Nottingham. During the evening the writer, accompanied by Mr.
Herod, called, and found host and hostess already participating in
the intensely interesting seances for which Mrs. Everitt is justly
held so famous. We were requested to . take seats at the table.
During our conversation the raps on and underneath the table and
behind Mrs. Everitt intelligently responded to the remarks
made. Time passed quickly and we had to leave, feeling deeply
thankful. On Sunday evening, the news having widely spread, the
room in Ohurch-gate was well filled with an harmonious audience,
anxious to hear and see their deservedly respected London friends.
Some, however, were doomed to disappointment, as Mrs. Everitt’s
health would not permit of her attending. Mr. Ashworth presided,
and after, at the request of Mr. Everitt, reading a portion of the
12th chapter of Corinthians, made a few remarks. He said that he
felt that he could ask those present to give the fullest credence to
whatever statement Mr. Everitt might make, as ho believed no man
living to be more truthful.
Mr. Everitt then gave an interesting lecture, stating that he had
been for twenty years a student of the science of Spiritualism.
He spoke of the desirability of approaching the subject in a prayerful
and serious spirit. His experience was a marvellous one, espe¬
cially where he so forcibly described the first manifestation of
direct spirit-writing; over nine hundred words being written in
only a few seconds.
The specimens shown were examined with interest by the
friends present. After the lecture a few fortunate ones, including
myself, were, through the kindness of Mrs. Westmoreland, invited
to attend a seanee.
I feel my utter inability to do anything like justice in describing
the marvels of that never-to-be-forgotten Pentecostal shower.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 10, 1875.
Eaps on the table—of no uncertain sound—intelligently communi¬
cated with us, and, by direction of the controlling spirit, Znippy,
wo were soon placed in our respective positions; he also told us to
read portions of the Scriptures, in every instance the extract being
beautifully appropriate to the occasion. After a little singing the
light was put out; we were then delighted with most delicious per¬
fume, accompanied with a soft, refreshing breeze, forcing from
many of us exclamations, of delight. Then came those lovely
spirit-lights for which Mrs. Everitt’s seances are so widely known,
which I fancy would not be difficult to distinguish from sham ones.
Then came Znippy. He was a fund of interest in himself. His
jokes and repartees were highly interesting. I fear I am tres¬
passing too far upon your space, and must therefore refer your
readers who desire an exhaustive report to the one by Mr. W. P.
Adshead, in The Spiritualist of Oct. 2nd, 1874, where they will find
a full account of the phenomena that generally occur at Mrs.
Everitt’s seances.
On the Tuesday following the second seance was held at the same
place, when similar manifestations occurred, and, in addition, we
were favoured with an interview with the noble spirit John Watt,
who conversed with us in the direct voice, and, in response to a
desire of some one at the table, wrote his name in a large bold hand
on the centre of the ceiling—a favour, we were told by Mr. Everitt,
that is not often accorded. We were not aware at the time that he
had done so, but it was noticed as soon as Mrs. Westmoreland
entered the room next morning.
On the last evening, whilst a few friends were sitting, Znippy
informed us that he had taken one of Mr. Westmoreland’s scarf
pins, and, after a little fun at , the expense of the host and hostess,
and whilst the room was light enough for us to see each other dis¬
tinctly, we were startled by hearing something dropped from the
ceiling on to the table—when, lo! there was a scarf pin which Mrs.
Westmoreland had left on the drawing-room table, in the room
above, the night before. We were also favoured with the manifes¬
tation of the imitation of a circular saw, hand saw, plane, and
hammer.
In conclusion, I may say that a curious manifestation occurred
whilst Mr. and Mrs. Everitt and Mr. Herod were looking over our
church cemetery, a place of somewhat romantic appearance. Whilst
under the graves, in a large cave of rock, knocks were heard upon
and inside some empty boxes, which had probably contained stone.
Znippy and John VVatt announced their presence.
Jas. Ashworth,
Cor. Sec., Nottingham Psychological Society.
72, Bowland-terrace, Heskey-streat, Nottingham, Dec. 5th.
(Eottespnuence.
[Ortat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
BARON HOLMFELD ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND OTHER
MATTERS.
Dear Howitt,—Your kind letter of the 23rd November from
Home reached me in London, and as, besides the expressions it
contains of your kind feelings of friendship and of identity of labour
for spiritual development and mutual aid, you favour me with some
remarks about questions which belong to the public domain of
letters, I think it just to send you my answer by The Spiritualist.
Your objection to the institution of which I am a honorary foreign
member, viz., that it ought to call itself “ International ” instead of
“ National,” and that in its starting it has excluded Christianity
from its debates, appears to me rather due to your protracted
absence from your country than to have foundation in reality. First,
as your own endeavour to make religion or faith catholic or
universal never could cease to be individual, and might be called
“ Mr. Howitt’s catholicity,” there appears no reason for rejecting
the word “ National” in the peculiar British endeavour of making
Spiritualism more universal. In virbis sim/us faciles is an old, much-
confirmed adage. Your strong objection to the exclusion of
Christianity from the Association’s programme would certainly be
peremptorily appropriate if its tendency really were anti-Christian, if
American principles of Free-loveism, or Mormonism, or French
“ Spiritism,” or Jesuitical and ultramontane schemes were at the
bottom of its aims. I can assure you that nothing of the kind as
yetis to be found in it. The meaning of- the program (allow me
to shorten the word, just as in “telegram”) appears to be to abstain
from sectarian and dogmatic debates, which generally are implied
in the word “ Christian,” as suggesting that there must be at least
a certain amount of specified dogma. Certainly there ought to be
such an amount; but this amount is to be found and introduced
by our own mental exertion, and not to be previously and uncon¬
ditionally claimed or enforced. It may be beautiful to meet with
your Christian brethren in the fulness of divine mutual harmony.
But, as.it scarcely is in our power to judge about Christianity in
our neighbours, and as every human being moves in an orbit whose
rotation cannot be calculated by others it can easily come to pass
that a man appears in the aphelion as to the spiritual sun of truth,
while at a later period his place in the orbit will be in the perihelion.
We ought thus not to judge about epicycles in man’s orbit. We
know that Christianity consists in light and truth as to intelligence,
and in charity as tr action and life, and as love of truth and good
has nothing to do with names, we ought not to judge according to
names, but follow the rule given by the Lord Himself, judging
according to the fruits the tree bears. Whatever sympathy we
may feel for those who meet us under a Christian form, even if it
be only nominal, our duty is principally to those and among those
who still are ignorant of the blessings conferred on mankind by
Christianity, and I dare say you feel and follow this duty more than
many other zealous professors of Christianity. You know this is
the meaning of the Lord’s wofds about the tests by which He will
recognise His followers, so I think the consciousness of Christian
duty to those who are in need‘of your help will settle the Question.
Whenever you return, to England you will feel glad to comfort the
members of the Association, and to be comforted by them.
As to your views against mentioning Quakers among those
who think themselves inspired by the Holy Ghost, and against the
statements of the Swedish seer, I am far from considering Sweden¬
borg’s reports in his Diary about his mediumistic trials and spiritual
manifestations otherwise than modern communications of spirits.
He himself never looked otherwise on them, and his own declara¬
tions about the unreliability of spirits are applicable to those ex¬
periences, which he never used as revelations. I am thus far from
giving credit to his visions about Quaker-spirits and their be¬
haviour ; but I believe that, as a sect, the Quakers did not generally
use illustration in a sober way of development of their rational
faculties, hut as a Divine revelation, and this could not but lead to
that mystification of which I spoke and of which we complain in
the Church of Home and in the modern spiritual communications of
mediums, who, instead of using them as facts, have faith in them as
be.ing Divine revelations.
Allow me to say a few words about your views concerning
miracles as comprehending all that is marvellous and above the
ndlura rerum, as we understand it. I consider miracles, if true and
divine, to be startling acts of Divine providence which are calcu¬
lated to make a strong impression upon the external mind of the
low, sensuous man, who is unfit to elevate himself spiritually to
truth and rational understanding of his duty and problems of life, but
who, for aims of divine order, is to be externally led in a certain
way. The state of mind thence produced is of little real value, as
not originating in stern internal conviction, and it generally passes
awaj’’ without great benefit to the sensuous man acted upon, while
it has its real effect in an external state in reference to the kingdom
of the Lord, and the necessary external order. If this is the right
view you will see whence the dictum in the church, that miracles
have ceased since its installation—the meaning of the dictum being
that through the mission of Christ the real, true, internal way of
conviction, illustration, and faith has been opened, and the external
way by miracles is become quite secondary and' put in the shade.
At the same time you see how it is with spurious, false, Egyptian
miracles; the external, anti-Christian church using wonders in
order to compel the sensuous community into a certain state of
blind obedience. The application is easily made.
As to the reincarnation, principle which you mention, allow me
to, state that when I was a boy of eleven years of age, in 1810,1
pondered very much over the continuity of myself, my “ ego.” I
said to myself, “ If to-morrow, or after ten years, or in another life,
I do not feel the absolute continuity of my own personal conscious¬
ness, my whole existence is not worth a fig,” and I could not under¬
stand why I had been created. A long life has since confirmed this
persuasion of uninterrupted continuity of my proper “ ego ” through
all the viscissitudes of development, and this is the cause why I
never could admit reincarnation in any sense. I know I am natu¬
rally created by the law of physical generation, and that I am to
be spiritually regenerated by the law of spiritual creation, in dif¬
ferent stages of development, as told in Genesis. I hope you abide
with me in this faith.—Yours sincerely, Dircxinck-Holmfeld.
British National Association of Spiritualists, London, December 1, 1875.
IMMEDIATE HELP WANTED FOR MRS. J. W. JACKSON.
Sir,—I have received a letter from our well-known- friend, Mr.
S. Chinnery, stating that Mrs. Jackson, widow of the late J. W.
Jackson, of Glasgow, is, with her two children, in the deepest dis¬
tress, wanting warm clothing and firing this bitter weather. Mr.
Chinnery has begged me to make the case known to the members
of the National Association and to other Spiritualists, so I venture
to ask you to insert these few lines in your widely-circulated
journal, in the hope that some aid may be offered in addition to that
already received. The following friends have kindly placed their
subscriptions in my hands:—Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, £3; Mr. S.
Chinnery, £1; Mr. Charles Blackburn, £1; Mrs. Tebb, £1 Is,
The late Mr. Jackson was so well known among Spiritualists as
a writer and lecturer on mesmerism and cognate subjects that his
name requires no further introduction from me, and many of those
who knew and respected him will doubtless feel some sympathy for
his widow. E. Kislingbury.
38, Great Bussell-street.
Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known trance speaker, will deliver an
address, under spirit influence, at Mrs. Bullock’s Hall, 19, Church-
street, Upper-street, Islington, on Sunday evening next, at seven
o’clock, Mr. R. Barber in the chair. A collection at the close. Mr.
Morse gives his lecture without charge.
Dec. 10, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. iii
THE QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr.
Cogman’s work at the East-end of London, will be held at his resi¬
dence, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end, E., on Sunday, December 19th, at five
o'clock. Tickets one shilling each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
USICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box, playing eight
airs (maker, Nicoll, Q-eneva), nearly new, and in perfectly good
condition, is to be raffled for. Forty-eight Shares, at balf-a-crown each.
Names should be sent in to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-slreet, Blooms¬
bury, not later than Tuesday next, 14th December. Several of David
Dugnid’s spirit-paintings, executed in the trance, are also on sale at
reduced rates, at the above address.
Psychopathic institution for the cure
OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”
healer in attendance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, U.S., will,
early in January, commence the publication of a translation of the
works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it is devoting considerable space to
Occult PhilosCphy. Subscriptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from
America. Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 38, Great
Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from i’he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for sorpe such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales. .
Ail communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES-
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTEBS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER,
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec-
tieaLSociety. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
6s. ,
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This book consists of essays on
» the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and pther Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
rhas been often a source of remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freethinking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a centralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
CENTRAL HOME FOR SPIRITUALISM,
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for 'social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man¬
chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to offer, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITUALISTIC CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &c., as may be
afterwards determined, together with a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library.
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN..
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE INSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty mf mbers, at a subscription of
2s. 6d. per month, or 7s. 6d. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, &c., is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, who
will also act as secretary.
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday, December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Orel sail-lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, PRO TEH.
Mb. Chiswell,
„ Geoboe Dawson, •
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Abchibald Proctob,
„ Thomas Perris,
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tem.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightfu climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London Simpkin, Marshall and Co. .
0 MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be glad of
an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky, U.S., in
December, i872, if ne will kindly send his address to G- J. Smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till called fori
PARTS.—Parisian readers of T/ie Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Oapucines, Paris.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
begs to inform inquirers and others, that he is prepared to attend
Private Seances at the houses of investigators, and give unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given by him
before the members of “The Brixton Psychological Society.” For terms
and particulars apply by letter to Professor Redman, Brixton-hill, S.W
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on.
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 6 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondc par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris, Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
17
Dec. 10, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cjj.e Spiritalist
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to, view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance..
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
“ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the. next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., winch may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post
office Order for sums less than i!2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
“THE SI’I KIT UAL 1ST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weeltlv, is the oldest
A Newspaper, connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
. The Contrihutors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ;• Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.,;
Mrs. Ross-Ohurch (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof. Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Hollywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S. A.; Mr. H. I).
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D H. Wilson, M.A:,
LL.M.: Mr. C. .Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. To residents
in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which may he paid-in to Messrs.
Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded
to ■rThe Manager, Scihitualist Newspaper. Office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.”
[December, 1875.] 
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON..
Martin R. Smiih, Esq.
Charles Blackburn. Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart,
Baroness Adelma von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Fsq M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.Tel E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
' James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been primed in clear type and on good piper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. Ic is hardly necesiarv to
say that up to the present time toe paper has been by no means self-
supporting; indeed, during the first three years of its existeoce it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable poition (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and o her
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By bis
unwearied and intelligent observation be has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information «s to tbe facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientifle aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after the appearane'e of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidised by large ubscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to tbe public for help has
ever, except up6n one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for,six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last turee years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately sub'eribed by a few friends, which has, doubtles?, ■
greatly relieved tbe burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Hati ison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully-sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in add'tion to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped,.mav to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. smith, Esq., care of Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.
List of Subscriptions to November 16th,
Mr. Martin R. Smith    £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn     60 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Mnrtheza         50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne     40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    20 0 0
A Frieud           20 0 0
Mr. Alexander iod        ;   20 0 0
Comte de Bullet        20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe        '35 0 0
Sir Charles Isbam, B <rt.  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgensteln    6 0 O
F. S. A      6 5 0
Mr. O. F. Varley, F.R.S.   ;  6 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D     5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe    5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey        5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald     5 0 0
Signor Damiani       3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood    2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald ;  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S  2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery  2 2 0
Mr. 8. Templeman Speer, M.D  2 2 0
“ Ennesfullen ’’     2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory      2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent'  2 0 0
• Dr. Bttikie     2 0 0
Miss Douglas  f‘  2 0 0
M. H. C |    2 0 0
Mr! Keningale Cook    1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King     110
Mr. F. A. B.nney  110
Mr. J. Coates   110
Mrs. Maltby     110
. Mrs. Kislingbury       110
Mr. B. W. Pycock      110
Mr. B. Coleman  110
Mr. R. Fitton       1 10
Major Menars '.  110
Mr. John Lament      110
Mr. Archibald Lamout      110
Mr. T. B. Griffin   110
Mr. J. B. Stones    110
Mr. if. Regan     110
Mrs. Regan      110
Mr. GV W. F. Wiese  110
Rev. W, WnHear    110
Miss Whitear    110
Mr. C. E. Williams     110
Mr. A. Glendinning   1 10
Mr. H. Witball     110
Captain James   110
Mr. F. W. Percival  !  1 1 0
Mr. Christian Reimers   110
Mr. Thos. Binde  110
Mr. Thos. Grant  110
Mrs. Geo. Neville .’  110
Mr. G. R. Tapp  110
Baroness von Vay........      10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder  10 0
A Subscriber     10 0
Amicus   .'  10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton...,,     10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee        0 30 6
Mr. w. E. Ha»sett      o 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands      0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp       0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald   :...      0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock   !  0 10 0
Mr. Geo Bljton  1    0 10 0
J. F. C     0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy ;      0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury    0 5 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Kents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen*, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
