AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
(■REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.}
No. 165.—(Vol. VII.—No. 17.) LONDON: OCTOBER 22, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Is Evil a Reality ?...  • ... ... 193
Spirit Teachings. No. XLII  194
Manifestations with the Fakirs in India. No. II. By Dr. Maximilian
Perty  196
Spiritualism in Hungary      ...   197
The National Conference of Spiritualists      198
Sunday Evening Lectures by Mr. Morse   198
Brixton Psychological Society  198
Boy Mediums          198
Arrival of Mr. Morse       ... 198
Spirit Vale”:—An English Barrister at the Eddy Brothers’ Home¬
stead—Mrs. Huntoon as a Test Medium—Materialised Spirits—
Testimony of a New Zealand Spiritualist      199
Spiritualistic Funerals:—Funeral of Mr. B. S. Nayler   200
PoetryA Voice from the Grave   ...    ... 201
Correspondence: — Instantaneous Poetry—Tests—Spiritual Pheno¬
mena and Conjurors—The Vocation of the Spiritualist—Aurora... 201
Provincial News:—Portsmouth, A Psychological Curiosity—A Splendid
Ring Test—Accrington, Lecture at the Peel Institute — North.
Shields— Newcastle, Stance at Weirs Court  203
Paragraphs:—Sunday Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms, 197; The
Spiritualist Newspaper   198
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to tty> Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
nrchases and Sales of British, Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected'. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. .
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 8s.
London :—Simpkin, Marsh ail & Co.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited.by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commenco
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row EC.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
THE “STURM.BERG” BLANCHETTE writes answers
to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not. All should
judge for ihemselve s. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont
Constitution-hill, Birmingham. 4s. 4d., 2s. 2d., and Is. 9d., post free.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on pplication.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
A
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER,THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE SPEAKER,
WILL DELIVER
A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,
At Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station, W., on
the following Sunday evenings:—November 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28ih.
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the coarse, 6s. Body of the
hall, free.
Service to commence at 7 o'clock. Doors open at 6.30.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., Jrom the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to he sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. Br ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell. Price 7s. 6d. Postage
GW. Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London W.O.
Just Published. Prion 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion, for a model col ny-r-Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils
By Frederick A. Binney.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 22, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Betnard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill. Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fiiz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.O.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13 Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester..
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-towu, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Yienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E,
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Oampden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T„ 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3,' West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham.l, King-square, Goswell-road, E.U.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.O.^., 19, Nottingham-plaoe, York-gate, Regent’s-pk.. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-bill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E. C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31. Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
, Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de 8.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bakdje Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26’, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University
Germany. * *
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsio.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
B. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Olinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq,, M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A. ■
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Griinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles* Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Pro-
chaszka, Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Conti ol in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At' home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own hdhse, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
"V[ OTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
1 \ of Curative (Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
dailyj from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
RS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
-L.yJL STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
I appointments should be made for private seances.
VOkUJVlE £EVEJH. JHUJVIBEE ^EYENTEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22nd, 1878.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one-year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
■" “ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling. 4
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local andProviucial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The_entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
“THE SPIRITUAL IS T” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
J- Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spirituaiists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayu-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S,; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, TT.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor.'and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0.
Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe '; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury.; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Marthese: Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
IS EVIL A REALITY?
In Dr. Sexton’s discourse on “ The Doctrine of a
Final Cause,” a report of which was published in the
last number of The Spiritualist, he argued that the
examination and contemplation of the works of nature
give no evidence that the Great First Cause thereof is
a God of love. After eloquently describing a land¬
scape, as Seen from a mountain-side upon a summer’s
day—a scene radiant with flowers and beauty—he
pictured a storm at sea, in which, in the words of
Mahomet—“ Billows were riding upon billows below,
and clouds above; one darkness on another dark¬
ness,” lit up occasionally by the lightning’s flash,
accompanied by peal upon peal of heavenly artillery;
and he told how a ship labouring in this storm, with
five hundred living souls on board, was suddenly
struck by lightning and all hands sent to the bottom,
leaving wives and children to mourn their loss. In
circumstances such as these, argued Dr. Sexton, man
can gain no evidence from nature that God is a God
of love.
The position taken up is open to question. Elec¬
tricity obeys fixed laws, and because these laws are
fixed and understood, man is able to send telegraphic
messages from one end of the earth to the other,
whereby wars and misunderstandings between nations
are to a considerable extent prevented, and peace and
goodwill among men encouraged. If electricity were
not governed by fixed laws—if it were capricious,
doing one thing at one time and another at another—
this system of telegraphy could not exist, and as the
same laws which govern electricity when a message is
transmitted also govern the passage of a lightning
flash, the lesson to be derived from the destruction of
the ship, seems to us to be, not that God may be evil,
but that men, by not using due care, and by not pro¬
viding the ship with proper lightning conductors,
reaped the fruits of their own neglect; also that it was
better for the human race that the sailors should so
suffer, than that electricity should be governed by
capricious laws. Dr. Sexton further assumes that
drowning is a dire calamity. Is he so little of a
Spiritualist as not to think it probable that most of the
sufferers found themselves an hour afterwards in a
happier state of existence than before ? He may plead
that it might have been no fault of the men that the
ship was not provided with proper lightning conduc¬
tors, in fact, it might have been destroyed and gone to
the bottom before lightning conductors were known.
But in such case, had men in those old-fashioned times
reverentially studied the works of God as exhibited in
nature, instead of accepting on the voice of authority
that which their fellow-beings asserted to be revela¬
tion, they would have discovered all about electricity
and lightning conductors several generations pre¬
viously. The reason they did not do so was because
theological influence—of which Dr. Sexton is now a
194 THE SPIRITUALIST. • Oct. 22, 1875.
mouth-piece—had such a strong hold upon the minds
of men as to stop scientific investigation, to imprison
Galileo, and to roast alive an Italian astronomer.
Spiritualism teaches that there is compensation for
every trouble. If people live lives of sin, starvation
and degradation here, because human laws and human
customs are bad—made for the benefit of the few
rather than for the good of the many—nevertheless,
every man will have to atone, either in this world or
in the next, for all the wrong he has done ; conse¬
quently, a time of recompense is coming for those who
have been injured. Dr. Sexton may point to the
tiger, and say that the existence of a fierce animal
such as that is evidence that God is not good; still,
the facts may be contemplated from two standpoints.
In the first place, the tiger does not hold that opinion,
but in eating his dinner is supremely happy; and who
can say whether the temporary fright and pain of the
animal eaten are so dreadful as they appear to be ?
May they not be more than compensated by the happi¬
ness enjoyed by the creature during its term of life ?
Many of the lower animals have not such a fine
nervous system as man, and are not so sensitive to
pain ; moreover, when the feelings are worked up to
a high pitch of intensity, it is well known that sensi¬
tiveness to pain frequently decreases. Take, for instance,
the case of Cranmer at the stake, who voluntarily burnt
off his right hand to give emphasis to the opinions
which he expressed at the time.
What men call “ evil ” is for the most part caused
by themselves, by their own laws and customs ; and
this so-called evil is a strong incentive to good ; with¬
out it life would be very much what light would be
without darkness, or a picture without any shadows in
it. Indeed, if a perfectly good man were to come to
earth with no evil in him, he would have so little in
sympathy with human nature that we should have no
kindred feeling towards him; his presence would
therefore be so unbearable that men would have no
alternative, but to crucify him. Those modern philoso¬
phers who have deeply studied the works of nature
have come, as a general rule, to the conclusion there¬
from that God is good, and have adopted the same
argument that Dr. Sexton, unfortunately for his case,
himself employed in another part of his lecture, when
he admitted that it was impossible to stand under the
broad canopy of heaven, watching the suns and
planets wheeling through the heavens in majesty,
without feeling awed into silence, and coming to the
conclusion that some great and good Cause must be
behind all this wondrous machinery.
To prove the existence of absolute evil from the
phenomena of nature is exceedingly difficult, and the
facts most likely to prove it, if it can be proved at all,
seem to us to be furnished by the lives of London
cab-horses. They do no harm to anybody ; they wear
out their lives in never-ending drudgery, which kills
them before their natural time, after which every
atom of their carcases—skin, bones, flesh, and tail,
are boiled down to serve the purposes of their slave¬
owners. Now if cab-horses have no life after death,
wherein are they compensated for whole lives of
undeserved suffering ? Here are some very substantial
facts on which to found a theory of the reality of
absolute evil. One way to escape from the dilemma
may be to find a future existence for cab-horses;
another may be to adopt, with Berkeley, some theory
to prove that cab-horses are not realities at all, but
exist only as impressions in the human mind. Scien¬
tific Spiritualism proves that death, the “ king of
terrors,” has no reality—there is no death, nothing but
eternal change—and by a kind of scientific faith in
God, deeper and stronger than that of the orthodox,
because drawn from the study of the works of the
Deity, men may intuitively come to the conclusion
that there is no evil, although they may be unable as
yet to prove it in all cases. There is no place for
absolute evil in a universe governed by a good and an
Almighty God. .
SPIRIT TEACHINGS*
No. XLII.
[7 had read something about India as the cradle of
races and religions, and something had been said about
the subject at one of our meetings. I inquired further.
What was said is true. India is the source from
which is derived much of the religious idea which
pervades your faith. From India the chain has been
perpetuated through many nations of antiquity. The
myths which have centred round the plain truths of
revelation owe their origin to India. The Messianic
legends date from the earliest days. Men have always
pictured to themselves a Saviour of their race, and the
best record of your gradual growth is to be found
in tracing the early religious history of India. As the
study of Indian lore bears much on the scientific aspect
of language which you have studied and taught to
others, so is the study of the religious aspect of Indian
history in the far, dim past, essential for yourself now.
Direct your mind to it. We have those with us who
can aid you.
India, Persia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, Judaea,—of
these and of God’s dealings with them in revealing
the Divine Ideal as man has been -able to grasp it, it
behoves you to know. You must learn how Djeminy
and Yeda Yyasa were the predecessors of Socrates and
Plato. You will be told of this by those who know,
and whose earth-life was spent at that epoch. But
first you must labour to gather up for yourself such
knowledge as is stored up. That done you will be
guided further.
You must learn too from similar sources how that
man in every age has felt his need of a Saviour out¬
side of himself, and how the legends. that cluster
round these Messiahs repeat themselves from time to
time. The mythic source from which many a legend
sprang you will find in the story of Chrishna, the
miraculous son of the pure virgin Devanagny. Hence
you will get light on subjects yet dark to you. This
is the special information of which we spoke long ago,
* In T'he Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extractsthby gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the origihals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Es.
Oct. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
195
but which, the peculiar attitude of your mind, com¬
bined with its black ignorance on these subjects, com¬
pelled us to withhold.
We have still much to clear away before we can
build safely. There is much in the mere outlines
that will be strange , to you, and you must be fami¬
liarised with them before we can go into detail. You
must know that Egypt, Persia, Greece, Rome, the great
kingdoms of the world, owed their philosophy and
religion very largely to India. Manou, the great
Indian reformer and teacher, reappears as the Manes of
Egypt, the Minos of Greece, the Moses of Hebrew
story. The name is impersonal, and is the appellative
“ man ” in its simplest form. The great pioneers of
truth to their respective peoples were called, by em¬
phatic eminence, “ The Man.” They were to their
fellows the highest embodiment of human power,
dignity, and knowledge.
‘ Manou of India was a learned and erudite scholar, a
profound student of philosophy, more than three thou¬
sand years before the Christ was born among you.
Hay, he in his turn was but a late reformer compared
with those whose words are written in the ancient
commentaries which belong to venerable Brahminical.
lore thousands of years before Manou expounded philo¬
sophically the mysteries of God, of creation, and of
man’s destiny.
To him Zaratushta or Zoroaster owed whatever of
truth he taught of old in Persia. All the sublimest
conceptions of God date from him. The influence of
India on all ancient races, in legislation, in theo¬
logy, in philosophy, in science, is as surely proven
to you as the fact that the language which you use is
the same tongue as that spoken by Manou himself.
The adulterations of modern times have so changed it
that you can hardly trace the resemblance, yet your
learned philologists will tell you that it is the same.
The religions of the world bear to a superficial eye no
apparent identity with the ideas which are enshrined
in Brahminical lore, yet they are derived frequently
from those primitive teachings which Manou syste¬
matised, which Manes naturalised in Egypt, and which
Moses introduced among the Hebrews.
Hindoo ideas permeate all systems of philosophy and
theology. The Devadassi, the holy virgins who in
Hindoo temples devoted themselves to the pure worship
of the Supreme, according to their idea of Him, have
had their successors in the consecrated virgins of the
Egyptian temples of Osiris, in the inspired pythonesses
of Delphi, in the priestesses of Ceres, in the vestal
virgins of later Rome.
This is, indeed, but a solitary instance of what we
wish to point out to you. We do but direct your mind;
and our bare sketch will be plentifully filled in here¬
after. You are not yet able to comprehend more than?
the outline.
[Certainly I am ignorant enough. You speak as if
man was a mere vehicle for spirit; more or less perfect,
and so more or less instructed.]
We have told you frequently that all knowledge is
from us. With us is the substance, with you the
shadow only. Even as in your world, they learn most
who are most teachable, so in intercourse with ours.
We can teach, if you are willing to learn.
[Wot much merit in man, then.]
The merit of obedience and humility. So he best
grows in knowledge.
[And suppose his teachers teach him wrong ?]
All truth is mixed with error. The dross will be
purged away.
[All spirits teach differently. Who then is right ?
What is truth ?]
It is not so. We teach independently, and so details
vary while the broad outline remains the same. You
will know one day that evil, as you call it, is but the
reverse of good. You can have no unmixed good in your
present state. It is an idle dream. Truth to you is
relative, and must long remain so. Be content to crawl
before you walk, to step before you run, to run before
you soar. Pkudens.
[Feb. 0,6th, 1874. At one of our circles we had had
a piece of direct writing of which we could make nothing.
It was written in curious hieroglyphics. I inquired
about it.]
The writing, though unintelligible to you, was the
work of a high intelligence, who on your earth was
incarnated amongst the nation who was then most
spiritual, the great nation of the Egyptians. They had
a more real belief in the existence and intervention of
spiritual agencies than you now have. They cherished
a firmer belief in the immortality of the human spirit,
and of the indestructibility of all spirits than your wise
men have yet attained to. Their civilisation you your¬
self know to be vast; their erudition such that they
were the depositary of the knowledge of their age.
Aye, verily; and they had knowledge which a
material age has lost; knowledge which illumined the
souls of Pythagoras and Plato, and which has filtered
down to you only through their teachings. The ancient
Egyptians were wise and erudite philosophers, and our
friend may well teach you much of which you are yet
ignorant. After an interval of three thousand years
and over, one, who in his earth-life knew of God and
the hereafter, comes to witness to the abiding nature
of his faith. The time—so long in its seeming to your
contracted vision—during which our friend has been
a denizen of spirit-land, has served to open new vistas
of truth, to remove old errors, to throw light on old
speculations, but it has served also to deepen and con¬
firm faith in the Supreme, and in the immortal destiny
of man’s spirit.
[/ suggested that I still did not see why he should
write unintelligible hieroglyphics ; and asked his name.]
You shall know of him; but his earth identity is
long lost, and you would know it no more than you
know his signs on the paper: He knew even in the
body that bodily life was but the first short stage of
perpetuated existence; and he has gone onwards, as he
believed, upward to Ra, the source of light, to whom
his gaze was turned.
[I inquired if he believed in absorption into the God¬
head after a course of progress.]
The Egyptian faith was of some such sort. Their
philosophers believed in gradual progress until the
4ross was purged away and the spirit completely puri¬
fied. His religion was one of faith in future progress,
and, for the present, of high morality in life. Duty to
man and to self was not forgotten, and religion was
made a business of daily life. We may touch on this
again as we develope in you a wider knowledge. Eor
the present it is enough that you know that the
special peculiarities of Egyptian theology—the sanctity
of the body—had its true and false side.
The Great God was to them represented by every
living thing, and the human body was so sacred that it
was preserved from natural decay as far as might be;
196
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 22, 1875.
and so well was .this done, that some still exist among
you. The undue care of the body was error, but the
due preservation of bodily health was true and wise.
When they saw God in everything, they did well;
when they reduced Him to bodily form, their care for
the body misled them. Their doctrine of transmigra¬
tion through vast ages and cycles was an error which
symbolised and typified eternal and unceasing progress.
These errors, which led to the worship of animal life
in all its forms, as symbolising the Creator, and as
being the future home of the spirit in its manifold
transmigrations, the spirit unlearns as it progresses.
But it preserves the great truth of progressive develop¬
ment and growth in presence of the Great Creative
Force, of which they were the outward symbols.
If it seem to you foolish and unwise to worship
animal life, as needs it must, remember, too, that wor¬
ship may be directed through an external symbolical
manifestation to that spiritual essence which it typifies;
and that' errors which enshrine truths are husks
which die in time and leave the kernel safe. Ideas,
germs of. truth, never die. They may be viewed
through a distorted medium, and so take a dispro-
portioned form; but when the distorted medium is
removed, the true form is 'seen. So our friend and
his brethren see now that all nature in your world
is a phenomenal manifestation of the Supreme; and
that if life in all its varied forms may not be held up
as an object of adoration, still the groping spirit who
strives to reach up through nature to its God is not to
be visited with unreasoning blame. Do you not see this?
[/» a way. I can understand the use of all helps to
realising God. But I thought that Egyptian theology teas
onaterial and earthy compared with that of India. The
communications which you wrote out as to the religions of
the world,® left on me. the impression that Egypt reacted
from India. I suppose all error includes some truth, just
as every truth has an admixture of error, both terms being
relative and not absolute.']
We do not now dwell on the characteristic points of
Indian theology. What you say is true. We only desire
now to show you how, under forms most repulsive to
your present ideas, there was a lurking germ of truth,
and that such"truth, known to the ancients, has in many
cases perished from among you. It is well that you
learn to be modest in estimating both your own know¬
ledge and that of the ancients.
[Yes; I am not aware that I have any particular
knowledge except of the prevalent ignorance touching these
matters. And it is silly to laugh at any form of reli¬
gion. Our friend lived long since. An Egyptian priest,
was he i]
He was one of the prophets of Osiris, and was in his
time learned in the mysteries esoteric and unmention¬
able to the vulgar. Osiris, Isis, and Horus—this was
the Trinity he worshipped. Osiris, the Supreme; Isis,
the All-Mother; Horus, the Child sacrificed for human
sin. He knew God as your sacred historian revealed
Him, in terms borrowed from Egypt—I am the I Am—
the Universal Essence; the Source of Life and Light.
This title of Jehovah, Moses borrowed from the priests
of Thebes.
[What was the original name ?]
Nuk-pu-Huk.
I AM THE I AM.
* Omitted from their proper place in order to preserve the continuity of
the teaching,
He who inspires this communication was Prophet of.
Ha, at Ou, the City of Light, which the Greeks call
Heliopolis, City of the Sun, and he lived sixteen hun¬
dred and thirty years before the era which you call
Christian. His name was Choni, and he speaks to
you a witness for immortality from the ages that have
long passed. And I bear him witness that his testi¬
mony is true. ' + Impebatok.
MANIFESTATIONS WITH THE FAKIRS IN INDIA.
. No. H.
BY DR. MAXIMILIAN PERTY,
Professor of Physical Science, Berne. Translated from “Psychic Studies."
Suddenly it seemed to Jacolliot, as though a gentle wind passed
through his hair and over his face, like the evening breeze of the
tropics after sunset, and yet the curtains between the pillars of the
verandah were not stirred; the same sensation was repeated
several times. About a quarter of an hour had elapsed, and the
fakir had not changed his position; then the fig-leaves began
slowly to rise up the wooden staves, and to descend again, while
the observer, coming nearer and finding no connection between
them and the fakir, felt a certain uneasiness; the leaves did not
cease to rise and fall, although he interposed himself several times
between the pots and the fakir. Jacolliot then, having first ob¬
tained free permission, took the leaves from the staves and these
again out of the pots, and emptied the mould out on to the ground.
Jacolliot then rang for the cook, ordered him to bring seven glasses
from the kitchen, and fresh earth and leaves from the garden, him¬
self divided a bamboo stick into seven portions, which he stuck
into the glasses; on these he fixed the perforated leaves, and now
asked the fakir, who stood about four yards distant, and had been
looking on motionless, whether he thought that his spirits would
still be able to operate. The Hindoo did not answer, but stretched
This hands again as before towards the glasses, and not more than
five minutes elapsed ere the rising and falling of the leaves began
again. Jacolliot thereupon inquired of the fakir whether pots and
earth were necessary for the production of the phenomenon; and
on being answered in the negative, Jacolliot caused seven holes to
be bored in a plank, and stuck the bamboo sticks into them. In a
short time the results followed with the same regularity, and con¬
tinued for two hours in every variety of manner, until at last
Jacolliot was fain to ask himself, whether he was not under some
strong magic influence. Then said the fakir, “ Hast thou nothing
to ask of the invisibles, before I separate myself frpm them ? ”
Jacolliot had heard that European mediums make use of the
alphabet in their so-called communications with spirits; he
therefore informed the Hindoo of this, and asked if it would be
possible to establish a rapport vriWi them by,similar means. The
fakir answered in these words, “Ask what thou wilt: if the spirits
have nothing to say to thee, the leaves will remain motionless ; but
if they who control the leaves have any thoughts to communicate,
the leaves will rise up the staves.” Jacolliot drew an alphabet
hastily on a sheet of paper, when another plan struck him. He
possessed some copper letters and figures fastened to zinc plates,
which he used for printing his name and official number on his
books; he threw all these pell-mell into a little bag, so that he
could take them out one by one. The fakir resumed his invoca¬
tions, Jacolliot thought of a friend who had been dead for nearly
twenty years, and took out one zinc letter after another, watching
the letters, numbers, an'd the leaves at the same time. He had
already taken out fourteen, when at the letter A the leaves rau
quickly up to the top of the staves, then fell down again and lay
motionless on the board into which the staves were stuck. J acolliot
was struck, for A was the first letter of the name of his departed
friend. When the bag was emptied, it was refilled with the type,
and by degrees, letter after letter, the observer received the sen¬
tence : Attain Brunier, mart a Bourg-en-Bresse, 3rd Janvier, 1856.
His eyes began to swim when he saw these results, and feeling in¬
capable of continuing his observations, he invited the fakir to visit
him again on the following day.
After having thought over these things during a great part of the
night, and after repeating, at the subsequent sitting, the pheno¬
mena of the previous day in a similar manner, Jacolliot asked the
fakir to begin all over again, resolving to follow a particular plan of
action. He made an alteration mentally, preserving, as he thought,
the same letters, but altering their position in the sentence; then,
after the usual proceeding, he received the name, Halbin Prurdet, mart
ct Bourg-en-Bresse, 3rd Janvier, 1856.
Jacoiliot tried also to alter the name of the- town, and the day
I of death, but did not succeed, and received as before, mort a Bourg-
j en-Bresse, 3rd Janvier, 1856.
; For fourteen successive days Jacolliot received the fakir,
who behaved with the greatest submission, and continually
I varied his experiments. At one time there were alterations
in the letters of the name, till it was no longer recognisable;
at another, modifications in the day, month, and year of
death, but never any change in the name of the town, from
Oct. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
197
which Jacolliot concluded, always starting from the hypothesis
of a natural force forming a connecting link between the fakir and
the leaves, that he was not able to free his mini sufficiently from his
knowledge of the true spelling in regard to all the words in the
sentence. He therefore repeated the experiment frequently at
various times and with various objects, without, however, obtaining
any different result. Whereas on the one hand the material pheno¬
mena were constantly reproduced, there was, on the other hand, as
constant a variety following the action of the thought, either as
willed by him, or differing from that which he had willed.
In the last sitting the fakir made the empty plate of a scale sink
under a peacock’s feather, while the other was weighted with eighty
kilos.; by a simple placing of his hands on a wreath oL flowers it
rose in the air, indistinct voices were heard, and an ethereal hand
wrote luminous signs in the air—^phenomena which Jacolliot held at
that time to be pure phantasmagoria, and to which we shall return
later. In the above material phenomena no deception could be
discovered, in spite of the severest testing. In the case of the
psychological ones he could get nothing certain or invariable, and
he is inclined to the view, exclusive of all supernatural influence,
that the phenomena are due to a “ fluidic sympathy ” between him¬
self and the operator. His legal duties, added to his studies of
ancient India, did not leave him free to pursue these investigations,
but he carefully noted all that had reference to the doctrine of the
Pitrit and the belief in spirits, as well as all he could learn of the
material operations of the fakirs, with a view to a future publication
of these strange facts, always preserving the attitude of the his¬
torian, being unable, as he expressed it, to come to any “ scientific
conclusion.” Jacolliot believes that in nature and in man, who is
but an atom in the world, there exist boundless forces whose laws
are as yet unknown,but which will be discovered; that in the future
things will be proved to be realities that are now held to be delu¬
sions, and that phenomena will appear which we cannot now so much
as imagine. It may perhaps be objected that the Hindbos have not been
able in thousands of years to establish the laws of these phenomena,
and that it is not worth while to waste any more time over the
matter. But among the Brahmins, who have brought everything
Under the rule of religious belief, there exists, on account of that
faith, neither experience nor scientific proof; “ and what,” asks
Jacolliot, “ have the Middle Ages, building on principles drawn
from the text of the Bible, done to forward the cause of science ?
The power of steam was known in their pagodas, ‘and used for
exploding their vessels; certain observations were made on elec¬
tricity, but they never came so far as railways or telegraphs, which
were certainly even in our day asserted to be swindles by very
learned societies.” That which he saw in India forced Jacolliot to
the decided opinion that a specific force exists in man, which works
under some unknown and intelligent direction, a force whose laws
ought to be studied by unprejudiced minds. And is it not after all
the same power which the priests in the ancient temples trained
and directed, and which thus enabled them to impose upon the
people with their so-called miracles ? There would then be a basis
for much that is presented to us in old traditions, and side by side
with superstitious representations we should find the real workings
of a natural force.
Jacolliot had written a whole chapter on these subjects in 1866 at
Pondicherry, and intended, when he came to. prepare the book for
the press, to suppress it entirely, because he, who had resolved to
be simply a recorder of facts, found himself inclining towards the
belief in a power which in his opinion was a natural one, but in
reality produced supernatural effects. At that time ho received,
through the kindness of Dr. Fuel, Crookes’s well-known article on
the so-called psychic force in the Quarterly Journal of Science,
which had appeared during his residence in India, and was as¬
tonished to find that the famous English chemist formally asserted,
as the result of his researches, the existence of a force in man, the
very thing that he, Jacolliot, had only suspected. This decided
him to let the. chapter in question remain as it had been originally
written,' and in accordance therewith to communicate his later ex¬
periences.
Under the glow and splendour of an Indian sky there is greater
danger than with us of sliding out of plain, objective language,
into that of sensational effect. On the 3rd of January Jacolliot
travelled in a dingui, a native craft provided with a little cabin,
from Chandernagore on the Hoogly, and arrived fourteen days
later at the sacred city of Benares. Two natives, a serving-man
and a cook, accompanied him; one boatman and sjx rowers of the
fisherman’s caste firmed the crew. Jacolliot describes with enthu¬
siasm the magnificence of the great pilgrim city of the devotees of
the Brahman religion, where innumerable pilgrims from distant
parts of the country come and go, with its temples, with the
minarets of the Mohammedans towering over the mass of palaces,
and the countless majestic flights of steps (ghats') which lead down
to the Ganges, on whose winding shores the town extends to the
distance of nearly two miles. Everywhere are long arcades sup¬
ported by pillars, high quays, terraces with balconies, and in
between these luxurious trellises of baobabs, tamarinds, and ba¬
nanas, covered with hanging blossoms of every hue, gardens full
of flowers, and wide alleys. Mohammedan and Indian architec¬
ture are wondrously blended in this irregularly-built city, in which
the productions of India and Asia come streaming in, and in which
toleration is so excessive, that the Moslem and Brahman servants
perform their washing operations in the same sacred stream.
Jacolliot had made the acquaintance of a Mahratta prince in
Chandernagore, who had retired to Benares, and who now offered
him quarters in his splendid seven-storied palace on the river, to
the left of the famous mosque of Aurungzebe.
SPIRITUALISM IN HUNGARY.
The National Hungarian Spiritual Society at Buda-Pesth, which
is a well-organised and harmoniously-working Association of
Spiritualists recognising the necessity and benefit of united action,
has entered into official alliance with the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists. Although in some points of doctrine the
Hungarian differ from English Spiritualists—being, for instance,
decided reincarnationists—yet the Spiritists of Hungary do not
allow this difference of opinion to act as a barrier to friendly inter¬
course and co-operation where opportunity may offer.
The Society of Spmter-Forscher(8]Avitual Inquirers)at Buda-Pesth
is in one sense the most complete and perfect organisation at pre¬
sent in existence. It was first formed in the early part of the year
1871, and consisted originally of about twenty members. In the
following year the society was severely attacked by the newspapers
in Pesth and Vienna; the members took up the gauntlet, and the
result of the fray was that the society increased to so great an
extent that before the end of the year it was enabled to hire a build¬
ing constructed for its own purposes by one of its members, and
having submitted its rules and regulations to the approval of the
Hungarian Government, was registered by the same, and now
stands under its protection.
The society holds regular seances, at which spiritual communica¬
tions are given through various trance and writing mediums. The
best of these are selected and published once a month in a little
pamphlet, neatly got up and printed by the society on its own pre¬
mises, under the name of Reflexionen aus der Geisterwelt (Reflections
from the Spirit-world). The Baron von Vay is the honorary pre¬
sident, and all instructions for the guidance of the society are given
through the mediumship of the Baroness. Dr. Adolf Griinhut is
the acting president.
The Reflexionen consist of moral teachings, personal test-com¬
munications, answers to questions, and various communications of
a special character. Some of these records consist of conversa¬
tions with intelligences calling themselves “ nature-spirits,” who
wrote through the hand of the medium Adelma (Baroness von Vay).
Unhappy spirits also manifest, and declare themselves much raised
and benefited by their visits to high-toned circles. Latterly com¬
munications have been received by a honorary member of the
society residing near Vienna, purporting to come from Daniel Hor-
nung, formerly of Berlin, who by his investigations with the
psychograph, about eighteen years ago, elicited from spirits a mass
of interesting and valuable information, which was published in
volumes between the years 1857 and 1862.
Daniel Hornung the spirit, informed his friend of circumstances
relating to his own death which were quite unknown to that friend
at the time. The conversations with this spirit are deeply inte¬
resting, and are,;'said to be only a small sample of the spirit-
communication.S' Witten down by Herr Stratil, who possesses
thirteen largej volumes of MSS., the fruit of nineteen years’ experi¬
ments with the jisychograph through various mediums. During
this period more than 26,000 answers of interest are said to have
been received from 348 different intelligeuces. Of these, two copies
have been made by Herr Stratil, one in order of time, the other of
subjects, so that there exist on the Continent, in consequence of
the greater development of writing mediumship, materials for a
spirit-literature of no ordinary dimensions. Herr Stratil has pro¬
mised further extracts for the Reflexionen, the interest of which is
much enhanced by his contributions.
Prince Wittgenstein, who is now in Switzerland, will leave
shortly for Russia, and hopes to be in St. Petersburg when the
Scientific Committee of the University is investigating spiritual
phenomena, in which case he may perhaps be present at the seances.
Sunday Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday
last Dr. Sexton delivered two discourses as usual in the Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street; that in the morning on
“ The Relation of Christianity to Work,” and in the evening on
“ Creation by Law and Creation by God.” The evening services
prove the principal attraction, and the audience was a good one.
The speaker took for his text the following passage from Isaiah—
“ I have made the earth, and created man upon it; I, even my hands,
have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have I commanded.”
He took as the basis of his text the five definitions of “ law ” given
in the Duke of Argyll’s work on the subject, expatiating at some
length upon each, and showing that the operation of law involved
the action of an agent by which the various changes taking^ place
were effected. He enlarged upon purpose and function, pointing
out that it was impossible to form a clear conception of the latter of
these without some reference to the former. The discourse seemed
to give satisfaction to. the listeners. Mr. Parkes being still unwell
the whole of the two services devolved upon Dr. Sexton. On
Sunday next the subject will be, in the morning, at 11, “ The
Relation of Christianity to Worship,” and in the evening, at 7,
“ The Religion of Astronomy.”
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 22, 1875.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
It is now fully recognised that the annual Conference of British
Spiritualists is a meeting of great importance, not only to those
within our movement, but to a considerable margin of outsiders.
Many have dated the rise of their interest in the subject of Spirit¬
ualism from some point which they first heard mooted or discussed
at the sessions of the Conference, which they had attended certainly
more with a desire to scoff than to pray, and hadl eft with the idea
that there must “ be something in it.” The meei ngs having been
fixed for a later day this year than usual there will probably be a
good attendance of London Spiritualists, and many country members
and friends of the Association will also be present. Papers on
various subjects have been already sent in, and others are promised.
The subject of healing mediumship, which is of such paramount
practical importance, will doubtless call forth an interesting discus¬
sion, and it is hoped that all those conversant with this phase of
spiritual phenomena will give the meeting the benefit of their
experience.
The meetings will take place on the premises of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, on
the 4th and 5th November, immediately following the date of the
opening soiree of the Conference, to be given by the Association in
honour of Mr. J. J. Morse, at the Cavendish Rooms. Friends who
intend contributing papers to be read at the Conference are requested
to inform the secretary to the National Association at as early a
date as possible of the subject of such papers, and to send them in
not later than Saturday, October 30th. If any contributor desire
that his or her name be not published in connection with a paper,
it is requested that it be sent in confidence to the secretary, as no
anonymous writings can be received. No paper should occupy
more than ten or fifteen minutes in reading.
The admission to all the meetings of the Conference, with the
exception of the opening soiree, will be free. For further particulars
see advertisements. In the evenings, when friends are more dis¬
engaged, the attendance at the Conference meetings is likely to be
much larger than in the mornings, so it is probable that different
papers will be read at the same time in different rooms, under the
presidency of separate chairmen.
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES BY MR. MORSE.
The National Association of Spiritualists has appointed a com¬
mittee to arrange four Sunday .evening services during the month
of November, in London, for the delivery of addresses through
the celebrated trance-speaker, Mr. J. J. Morse, on his return from
America. The Cleveland Hall has been engaged for the series by
the committee, which met last Tuesday night at 38, Great Russell-
street, and the lectures will commence on the 7th November. The
committee will be glad to hear of any ladies or gentlemen who are
willing to form a choir for leading the singing, and request that any
such will send in their names to Miss Kislingbury as soon as pos¬
sible. Any friends wishing for reserved seats are also requested to
communicate at once with the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A seance was held with Mr. Williams, at 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, on Wednesday evening, Oct. 13th. Present—Mr.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. and Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Francis, and about
sixteen members of the society, besides. As compared with
other seances with this medium, the results were not of equal power,
but they were of sufficient interest to amply repay the patience of
the sitters.
The first part consisted of the ordinary dark sitting around a
table, with hands joined, the medium’s being held by Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald on the one side, and Mr. Grey on the other. Not long after
the company had commenced singing, brilliant meteor-like corus¬
cations, or “ spirit lights,” were seen travelling hither and thither,
while a bell, from its sound, appeared to follow them. It sounded
in unison with the voices. Several of the company had their
hands shaken by a spirit hand, and they were touched. Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald was affectionately patted by hands, and was informed of a
relative who had passed to the better land; Mr. Francis’s hand was
taken and pressed more than once, and the last time he had to
mount the chair, to follow the warm and soft hand that had taken
his and was lifting him up. Having raised his hand to the utmost, he
had three gentle taps by way of adieu. The cheery voice of John
King then spoke, and a conversation was carried on between him
and Mr. Fitz-Gerald. He said ho would try to materialise. This
ended the first part of the seance.
A short adjournment and the company sat again. A cabinet had
been improvised by suspending curtains, breast high, across the
end of the room. It was suggested that the medium should have
his coat sewn to the under garment and also to the sofa on which
he leclined. This was done, not for the satisfaction of the sitters
present/ but that inquirers who might read of the manifestations
should know that a crucial test had been tried. After the lapse of
a long time the tiny voice of Peter was heard, and a most brilliant
light was seen at the top of the curtains, revealing to those who
had the good for tune to sit near, the faint outline of John King, and
the shadow of the form on the window curtain. It speedily
vanished, the medium was thrown violently off the sofa, and
this terminated the seance.
BOY MEDIUMS.
Last Tuesday night a private seance was held in the seance room
of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, with two new mediums, recently discovered by Mr. Mar-
theze at Southport, and sons of Mr. Bamford, of Macclesfield.
Walter Bamford, the stronger medium of the two, is thirteen and a
half years of age, and his brother Joseph fifteen. Besides the.two
mediums, the spectators present were Mr. Martheze, Mr. Bamford,
Mr. Albert Snow, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Dufort, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The boys were first tied in the cabinet, when handkerchiefs were
shown at and thrown from the apertures. Afterwards, while the
spectators were seated round the table, an accordion was played
beneath it with great power. The two boys were then tied with
tape by hands, feet, and waist to chairs, and left at one end of the
room, while the company sat at the other, with the lights out.
Under these conditions musical instruments were played, writing
done, an iron ring put on and off the arm, and other of the usual
physical manifestations exhibited, lights being struck every one or
two minutes, to show that the mediums were tied as at first. The
powers of the two boys have only just begun to develope, yet are
already exceedingly strong.
ARRIVAL OF Mil MORSE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
• Off Irish Coast, Steamer Baltic,
Sunday, Oct. 17,1875.
Dear Sir,—Just a line to say I have arrived all well; passage
good, weather fair—some stiff breezes, though, and heavy seas.
I expect to reach Liverpool by 9 or 10 p.m. to-morrow (Monday),
landing early on Tuesday morning.
My farewell in Boston was a grand success, vide Banner of Light
Oct. 9th.—Truly yours, J. J. Morse.
On Tuesday morning Mrs. Morse, Mr. Coates, and Mr. Selwood
went to the Liverpool landing stage, where the tender of the S.S.
Baltic hove to with Mr. Morse on board, apparently not much the
worse for his voyage. A reception, inaugurated by the Liverpool
Psychological Society for him, will come off to-night, and he will
deliver an address in their rooms on the evening of Sunday next.
Mr. Morse will probably be in London on Monday or Tuesday
The Spiritualist Newspaper.—The little book by Mr. W. H.
Harrison, entitled Spirit People (London, 1875), contains the follow¬
ing paragraph about the founding of The Spiritualist newspaper:—•
“ In the spring of 1869, interesting conferences in connection
with Spiritualism were held regularly at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-
street, London. Some of the foremost workers in the movement,
such as Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Coleman, Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr. S. 0. Hall, and others, addressed
the public from its platform. Most of the interesting experiences
related at those meetings are now lost, because no records were
taken, except shorthand notes of one or two by Mr. Tapp, which
may or may not be now in his possession. Several of the speakers
therefore complained from the platform of the want of a newspaper
in the spiritual movement to publish records of such meetings, so
as .we had no newspaper at that time, there being nothing but
monthly periodicals filled with magazine literature, I resolved to
bring out a newspaper which should give news and reports of
meetings, and, furthermore, should be adapted to meet the require¬
ments of minds of a scientific order. The Spiritualist newspaper
was accordingly first published in the course of 1869, as a fort¬
nightly journal, with the announcement in its first leading article
that it would be brought out weekly as soon as such a step was
considered to be reasonable. Afterwards, in the natural course of
events, other newspapers came into the field, but when the system
was introduced by them into our movement of asking money from
the public to keep them going, I held aloof from the subscription
system because I did not like asking for money, and had never had
anything to do with any newspaper which was a financial burden
to the general public. The consequence was, that for three years
thousands upon thousands of pounds of the money subscribed with
the best intentions by Spiritualists were sunk in competition with
me, without even my private friends being told what heavy
financial injuries were thus inflicted on me, and I worked for and
paid out for years single-handed all the expenses thus quite un¬
intentionally and with the best of motives inflicted upon me. I do
not say this by way of complaint against anybody, for if I had
spoken of the injury the public were doing me, they would pro¬
bably have provided a remedy, as a few kind friends have recently
done. It was my own fault for not speaking out sooner; I kept
silence for three or four years, in consequence of being full of
Utopian ideas about Spiritualism being too sacred a subject for the
introduction of the grievances or sufferings of individuals.”
199
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 22, 1875.
“ SPIRIT YALE.”
AN ENGLISH BARRISTER AT THE EDDY BROTHERS* HOMESTEAD—
MRS. HDNTOON AS A TEST MEDIUM—MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
From a critical examination of many reports in
American newspapers, of marvellous appearances of
materialised spirits, through the mediumship of the
Eddy brothers, we long since found out and published
that the accounts were mostly of an exaggerated
nature, made by enthusiastic persons not recognised
by the public as good witnesses, and that the chief
fact suppressed in such reports was the feeble amount
of light at the seances—so feeble that the features of
the ** recognised ” spirits could not be seen by any¬
body, except an old Mrs. Cleveland and a Mr.
Pritchard, who were allowed to approach near enough
to see the faces, and who gave the rest of the company
their testimony as to the features. Of course this
testimony may have been reliable, but at the same
time the two witnesses may have belonged to a class of
enthusiastic souls who sometimes attend seances, who
would readily recognise pocket handkerchiefs as the
veritable faces of their departed grandmothers, or who
pass so freely under mesmeric influence as to see
miraculous things bey ondtheTange of ordinary eyesight.
On rare occasions, when some witness known to
Spiritualists attended the seances, such as Dr. Ditson,
and Miss Lizzie Doten, a tone of disappointment
characterised their accounts, and they usually honestly
recorded the fact of the small amount of light; still,
as they only attended one or two seances, their reports
were not worth much; at least a dozen seances should
be attended to get accurate ideas of the average
nature of the manifestations through any medium.
Why do not American Spiritualists, who have such
good mediums, engage good witnesses to observe the
manifestations ? If gentlemen whose testimony
carries weight on both sides of the Atlantic, such as
Mr. Epes Sargent, Dr. Crowell, and Colonel Olcott,
gave their valuable time and recorded most of the
facts witnessed at seances, on what a very superior
footing to the present American Spiritualism would
stand.
Colonel Olcott is a solitary good witness, who
perseveringly attended the seances of the Eddy
brothers; he once briefly mentions in his book that
the light was so bad that he did not see the features of
any of the recognised spirits, and this is the vital
point of the whole narrative, easily overlooked by
casual readers, but detected by the reviewer.
Thus, so far as test conditions are concerned, the
most remarkable circumstance is the vast multiplicity
of dresses in which the spirits appear; but then the
cabinet ordinarily used is not a test one, and hard,
sad experience is daily proving to Spiritualists in the
case of mediums of the Holmes, Melville, Fay, and
Von Vleck stamp (or perhaps more truly of the spirits
governing them), that it is not safe to publicly endorse
any physical manifestations not produced under test
conditions.
A few weeks ago a clever English barrister, who
does not as yet wish his name to be published, called
upon us before leaving England for the special purpose
of spending the long vacation in the observation of the
manifestations through the Eddy Brothers, at Chitten¬
den, Vermont, U.S., the result up to the present time
being that he is disappointed in what he has tfeen of
the materialisations through one of the brothers, yet
very pleased with the mediumship <pf the sister, Mrs»
Huntoon. Still, he has not as yet observed the mate¬
rialisations through William Eddy so long and perse¬
veringly as did Colonel Olcott, nor will he have much
opportunity of seeing anything hereafter, for his pub¬
lished testimony about Mrs. Huntoon will make the
brothers furiously jealous—a failing which too often
accompanies powerful physical mediumship—so the
observation of their manifestations by the English
witness may be assumed to be at an end. Here is his
account of what he has already seen, copied from the
Rutland Daily Qlobe of Sept. 30th, and every line of
it contains internal evidence of the reliability and
honesty of the narrator:—
Berwick House, Rutland, Vt, Sept. 27th, 1875.
Editor op the Rutland Globe,—Having travelled about 4,000
miles for the express purpose of witnessing, and, if possible, form¬
ing a correct judgment upon the “ spirit materialisations ” at the
Eddy homestead, made famous by Ool. Olcott’s critical investiga¬
tion, I naturally felt some curiosity to learn the opinions prevalent
about them in this city and neighbourhood. I have found many
differences and some indecision. Nor am I surprised, for though
the Eddy brothers, supposing mediumship to exist, are probably
the most powerful mediums in the world, they are not, at least at
home, test mediums. I do not in the least blame them, after all
they are said to have gone through in this way, for not submitting
themselves, every day and in their own homes, to the often cruel
and unreasonable caprices of sceptical investigators. But I do
think that they might voluntarily give more satisfaction in the way
of tests than they choose to do; and therefore I could not recom¬
mend others, whose object, like my own, is to verify a fact, and not
merely to witness the most developed phase of a phenomenon still
problematical, to seek conviction at the Eddys*. . But I certainly
am astonished that the extraordinary powers, as a test medium, of
their sister, Mrs. Mary Huntoon, should have escaped public atten¬
tion. The names of William and Horatio Eddy are heard where-
ever Spiritualism is mentioned; while this sister, who would convince,
if he were at all open to conviction, the most hard-hearted sceptic
in a single sitting, remains in obscurity. I was a week at Chitten¬
den before I even heard of her.
As an English lawyer, with, I am afraid, the worst possible
opinion of human nature, to whom the fallibility of human testi¬
mony is one of the first principles of judgment, sceptical by dis¬
position, and with some experience in this investigation, I have, in
this matter, trusted to nothing that I have been told, to no obser¬
vations and to no precautions but my own. I have attended six
circles at Mrs. Huntoon’s, with the result that the question of spirit
materialisation is settled with me for ever. On the ground floor
are only three rooms—the kitchen, dairy or larder, and the bedroom,
thirteen feet by seven, which serves as the cabinet. Above are
only the roof and rafters, without partition, of an unfinished room.
Below the larder is the cellar, not at all under the bedroom. I did
not, of course, accept the statement that there was nothing under
the latter but the ground, but examined every board of the floor.
These boards are continuous pieces, running under the partition
from the kitchen the length of both rooms. Each is firmly and
closely set to its neighbour. Two of the walls of the bedroom aro
outer walls, and I scrutinised the boards outside, and the plaster
within, which was without seam or rent, as also the plaster of the
partitions from the larder and kitchen, and of the ceiling. The
bedroom has only one window. The lower part of this was nailed
inside; outside 1 had nailed mosquito netting, the tacks being
driven up to the heads in spots selected by myself, and under my
own eye. I went out with a lantern and examined this netting
three times, (1) just before the sitting commenced, (2) immediately
after the manifestations had fairly commenced, (3) at the close. On
the bed were lying Mrs. Huntoon’s two younger children. I took
the elder to be under three years old, but she tells me he is three
years and four months. We took the bedding to pieces, blanket by
blanket, mattress by mattress. On only one night of the six was
the eldest child, five years old, left in the bedroom. The bedroom
has only one door, that into the kitchen, where we sat. Across the
door the curtain was hung.
So far, of course, I had only provided against access to the room
by an accomplice. But now comes the crucial test—the ability to
stand which distinguishes Mrs. Huntoon’s mediumship from that of
every other, with the exception, I am told, of Mrs. Stewart, of Terre
Haute, Ind. During the first part of the seance Mrs. Huntoon sits
outside the curtain, in the kitchen with us, no part of her person
being in the bedroom. The light, though not good enough to dis¬
cern the features of the apparitions, is sufficient to make perfectly
observable the smallest movement of the medium. I could see the
time by my small watch by it. We sat 7^ feet from the curtain.
I was quite satisfied with these precautions. A gentleman with
me, however, was not, at least for the purpose of reporting, though
he agreed with me that they were perfectly sufficient for our own
satisfaction. Accordingly we tied Mrs. Huntoon’s hands securely to the
back of her chair, and her feet to the legs of the chair. Now, under
these conditions, faces began immediately to appear, sometimes
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 22, 1875.
two at a time, through the curtain; a fiddle in the bedroom was
played, and while Mrs. Huntoon sang “ John Brown,” a voice from
behind the curtain, stronger than hers, accompanied her. ■ On other
occasions, after • all the foregoing precautions, with the exception
that the medium was not tied (though it must be distinctly under¬
stood, visible to all of us), the full length form of a young man
emerged from the side of the Curtain furthest from Mrs. Huntoon,
and stood before us for several seconds. The same spirit has come
several times, under conditions, however, not so rigorous. By and
by, the power becoming exhausted under these trying tests, a voice
from the bedroom calls Mrs. Huntoon behind the curtain. And
then the manifestations become much stronger; but, as the test is
at an end, to recount them is not within the scope of my present
object.
One warning I wish to give visitors to Mrs. Huntoon and every
other medium. Do not mix up the question of spirit materialisation
■vfith that of spirit identity. Bates and figures purporting to be
those of spirit friends will come to you. Your dear relatives will
manifest the utmost eagerness and impatience to be recognised, but
when you come to put the simplest test question, they will, unless
you have been fool enough to blab out particulars about them before- .
hand, either fail to answer, or answer wrongly. That is my experi¬
ence ; I do not say it is invariably the case. Unless proper precautions
are taken to exclude such an explanation,people,of course, go away
with the notion that it is all fraud and personation by the medium.
Much of it I am nearly sure is fraud and personation, not by the
medium, but by spirits, possibly not even human spirits. But I am
verging on deep and difficult speculations. To return to Mrs.
Huntoon. She has offered to come to any room in Rutland I may
select for the purpose, and there to hold a seance under any test I
may impose. I am satisfied already, and have declined the offer.
Investigators will, she assures.me, and I quite believe her, experience
from her a cheerful compliance with any tests not absolutely cruel,
not, of course, inconsistent with the invariable conditions of spirit
materialisation. You have two things only to guard against—con¬
federacy and personation by the medium—with Mrs. Huntoon, but
with very few other mediums, it is the easiest thing in the world to
take perfect precautions against either.
Excuse, sir, this long letter—I have no interest in its publication.
.1 write it at the request of Mrs. Huntoon, made after I had avowed
myself completely satisfied and convinced, a request which I thought
I could not in justice refuse.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
An English Barkister.
Postscript.—I have said the Eddys are not test mediums, but I
should qualify this statement as to Horatio, whose light circles
ought to give satisfaction to any close observer. I referred to
"Williams’s materialisation circles.
TESTIMONY OF A NEW ZEALAND SPIRITUALIST.
A copy of the Otago Times of Aug. 26th, sent us by
the last mail, contains a letter about the Eddy manifes¬
tations by Mr. W. H. Moody, formerly of Dunedin,
and well-known to New Zealand Spiritualists. It will
he noticed that in stating what brought conviction to
his own mind of the identity of the spirits, he lays
emphasis on the impossibility of strangers gaining
access to the cabinet, instead of upon the distinctness
with which he saw the features of the spirits. What
has the legal witness already mentioned to say as
to the reliability of the following testimony by Mr.
Moody ?—
I bave paid another visit to the house of the Eddys, and have
talked, laughed, and shaken hands with the fully materialised forms
of our deceased friends. We left Greenfield on the 10th of May,
and remained at the Eddy homestead in Vermont nearly three
weeks. During that time I attended fourteen seances, and saw no
less than two hundred and twenty materialised forms, many of them
in full light. They conversed with us, laughed, sang, danced, and
smoked as naturally as we do in the flesh. The seances are held in
the same room as before. The cabinet in which the materialisations
take place is 2ft. Sin. wide, 6ft. long, and 7ft. high. Usually, from
12 to 23 spirit forms appear in the space of an hour. The room is
partially darkened at the commencement of & seance, as that is one
of the conditions under which force is more easily gathered. If 1
meet an intimate friend in the street I know him from the cut of his
countenance and the rig of his coat. Well, I have seen here, in full
light, my old friend, Mr. 0. Redding (well-known in Dunedin),
twelve times. He spoke to me one evening; called me by my name,
and requested me to tell his wife that he was happy, and wished
her to come and see him. He came out dressed in five different
Suits, similar to those he used to wear when living here' on earth.
I knew him; I could not pe mistaken. There he was, as natural as
life. I lived in the house, which was scantily furnished. I knew
every nook and corner in it, and I was certain that no human being,
resembling Redding in every particular, could have been concealed
there. What hallucination could there be about it ? I saw my own
father four times, my sister six times, my old Ballarat partner, Rufus
Smith, once. All these I saw la full light, and how could I he mis¬
taken, or how could the Eddy Brothers personate them ? An old lady
(Mrs. S.) and her daughter, from Romeo, Michigan, came while we
were there. After they had been there a few nights, the spirits,
asked the old lady to take a seat on the platform, close to the
cabinet. Soon after taking her seat the form of an old gentleman
walked out of the cabinet and shook hands with her, and she called
him “ father.” He retired, and in a few minutes a young man ap¬
peared, and shook hands with her; and then a young girl, and
soon afterwards another young man. Each shook hands with the
old lady. After the seance was over, I asked her if she was sure
those were her friends. She said she could not be mistaken. The
first was her father, the second her son, the third her grand¬
daughter, and the fourth a man who used to work for her. I ask
any reasonable being if that is not good evidence! One night we
heard a baby crying in the cabinet. Soon a lady appeared Holding
a baby in her arms, and judging from the noise it made, it had
splendid lungs, and no mistake. . Honto, an Indian maiden, fre¬
quently danced. One evening she came to the floor where we
were seated, put her hand on the railing and jumped back to
the platform. Stooping, she seemed to pick up something, and
shaking it out, it was a large shawl. She made nine of
them, 3 by 5 to 4 by 9 ft. She plucked a white rose from a bouquet
on the platform, and, beckoning to me, I went up, and she gave it
to me out of her own hand, which I felt. One night a young lady
about twenty and a little girl about two years old appeared, and
were recognised by a man from Maine as his two daughters. He
called them by name, and the eldest took the younger in her arms
and walked partly across the platform. The little one held her
hands out towards her father, and they both seemed pleased to see
him. A good many Indians appeared in the full light, and remained
out for some time. An Indian girl, “ The Lady of the Lake,” was
one of the most beautifully formed beings I have overseen. She was
dressed in white tights, with a snow white tunic that reached
almost to the knees, a belt, and long black hair. She came to
where we "were sitting, and danced across the floor several times.
Mrs. Eddy, the mother of the Eddys came out and thanked the lady
from Michigan, Mrs. S., for her kindness,to her (Mrs. Eddy’s)
daughter. Two gentlemen from Utica, New Ycrk, fully recog¬
nised their brother, who passed on about a year since. A Mrs.
Cleveland, a near neighbour of the Eddys, lost her husband last
February. He came back several times, and was recognised by
several in the room. He was the one over whose corpse a mate¬
rialised spirit delivered a funeral discourse in the presence of about
twenty of the neighbours. I had this from the lips of a dozen
reliable persons who were present.
SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERALS.
The first Spiritualistic funeral which ever took place in
England was that of Mrs. Ritchie, in Kensal Green Cemetery,
about five years ago. Mr. Cromwell Varley, Lady Gordon, Mrs.
E. M. Cox, Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr. D. D. Home, Mr. Epes
Sargent, and Mr. Harrison, were among those who followed her
remains to the grave; there was little or no “ mourning ” in the
shape of dress, most of the ladies especially being dressed in
the brightest colours, and carrying flowers, which at the close
of the service were showered upon the coffin. Spiritualistic
funerals are superior in every respect to those of the ordinary
kind, and must be more pleasing by far to the bright “ risen
ones,” who are not buried with the cold clay. The Scriptural
quotation read in the Church of England Burial Service is most
painful: in it Paul in one place calls his fellow-creatures
“ beasts,” and in another, when an honest inquirer asks a
sensible question about the resurrection, begins his reply with
the words “ Thou foolthen proceeds to say that the dead sleep
until awakened by the last trumpet; which Spiritualists know
to be not true.
Mr. B. S. Nayler, the chief pioneer of Spiritualism in
Australia, has passed to the better land. He is well known in
Pembrokeshire [and some other parts of South Wales. For
many years he was managing agent to Colonel Greville, who
single-handed made a branch of the Great Western Railway
from Johnstone to Milford Haven, through his own estates, to
develops the resources of that noble harbour, a gigantic and
an unselfish work for one man, but a work of which Pembroke¬
shire in the next generation will reap the benefit. Mr. Nayler
and Mr. Harrison became acquainted with each other at Milford,
. before either knew anything of Spiritualism, and the former
afterwards left this country for Australia, for the benefit of his
health. While Mr. Nayler had no actual knowledge of the nature
of the future existence of man, he was, nevertheless, unable to ac¬
cept the orthodox teachings of the day, so did much by his contri¬
butions to local literature to promote freedom of religious thought
among an agricultural population so completely under the
thumbs of preachers, lawyers, and hereditary landowners as to
possess no souls or opinions of their own, or hope of anything
better in the fatore.
Oct. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
FUNERAL OF MR. B. 8. NATLER.
This veteran labourer in the cause of Freethought and Spirit¬
ualism passed quietly away to the spirit-world on the evening
of Wednesday, June 23rd. Mr. Nayler was born at Darlington,
in the county of Durham, England, in March 1796. He resided
in Holland for upwards of twenty-five years, and was for some
time English professor to the University of Amsterdam. ' At the
age of twenty-eight he married the daughter of an eminent
Dutch painter, named Liemur. Mrs. Nayler inherited the gift
of her father, and produced during her married life many excel¬
lent pictures, her forte being principally fruit, flowers, and birds.
They were deeply attached to each other, and celebrated their
golden wedding early last year, Mrs. Nayler passing away a few
months after. Mr. Nayler commenced the investigation of
Spiritualism, and having assured himself of the fact of spirit
intercourse by opening up communication with several of his
departed friends, he was not slow in taking steps to proclaim the
new gospel, and delivered a series of lectures at the Mechanics’
Institute, Melbourne, commencing August 11th, 1869. The
lectures were well attended, but the lecturer’s religious opinions
were too radically Unitarian for the majority of his audiences,
and much opposition was shown both to him and the cause he
advocated. The lectures were afterwards published in pamphlet
form and had a considerable circulation. During the latter part
of 1869 he started the first Spiritualistic paper in Victoria (The
Glowworm), but the circulation was inadequate to sustain it, and
after a six months’ struggle it succumbed. Mr. Nayler lectured
occasionally for the local association of Spiritualists, and about
three years since accepted an engagement as lecturer for the
Stawell Lyceum, which he filled until the end of last year. At
the beginning of the present year Mr. Nayler came to Melbourne,
where he was provided with means to end his days in comfort.
He was not, however, the man to remain idle, and within a fort¬
night of his death he published a pamphlet criticising the creeds
of modern Christendom, and proposing a scheme for the esta¬
blishment of an association of Freethinkers. He is also the
author of the book A Discussioruon the Unity, Duality, and Trinity
of God, published by Triibner and Co., of London, and other
works.
Mr. Nayler’s last appearance in public was on the platform of
the Temperance Hall, on the 13th ult., where he gave the pre¬
liminary reading to Mr. Hughes’s first lecture. He was in our
establishment four days before his death ; but though his
faculties were clear and bright,—as they remained to the last,—
it was evident that the tie which kept him in the body was very
weak. The immediate cause of death was congestion of the
lungs, the system being too weak to throw off the congestive
fluid. In accordance with the known wishes of the departed,
the funeral was exempt from any of the ordinary insignia of
mourning. We annex a brief account of the proceedings
The funeral was appointed to leave Victoria Parade at half¬
past two on Saturday, June 26th, and shortly before that time
about fifty friends of the deceased arrived, and took a last view
of the body, which preserved the same calm, placid expression it
had in life. No signs of discolouration or decomposition were visi¬
ble, and no odour save that of the beautiful flowers which filled the
interstices of the coffin. At half-past two the coffin was closed,
and the procession, which consisted of a hearse and four mourn¬
ing coaches, accompanied by a number of private vehicles and
cabs, proceeded to the cemetery. No plumes, hatbands or
gloves were to be seen, but a little sprig of rosemary (indicative
of remembrance), fastened with a yellow ribbon (symbolical of
spirituality and wisdom), was worn upon the left breast, and many
had small bouquets in their button-holes. Arrived at the cemetery,
the procession was joined by about fifty more friends, including
the choir of the Victorian Association of Progressive Spirit¬
ualists, who on the coffin being deposited in the grave, sang the
following beautiful hymn of Longfellow’s:—
" Take them, O Death! and bear away
Whatever thou canst call thy own!
Thine image, stamped upon this clay.
Doth give thee that, but that alone 1
Take them, O Grave! and let them lie
Folded upon thy narrow shelves,
As garments by the. soul laid by
And precious only to ourselves.
Take them, O great Eternity I
Our little life is but a gust,
That bends the branches of the tree
And trails its blossoms in the dust!”
Mr. Ross spoke of Mr. Nayler as a man of very remarkable
character. He left this world in his eightieth year, and accord¬
ing to usual notions he might be considered as a relic of the
past, to which all his sympathies might be supposed to be con¬
fined. Not so with Mr. Nayler. Never behind the age, but
generally in advance, he was ever the champion of reform, and
everything human had hip warmest sympathies. A friend of
old and young, ever ready to form new associations with the
freshness of a youthful mind. Those who knew him through
his vigorous and uncompromising writings only, might form a
harsh opinion of his character; but those who have had the
great privilege of knowing him in the privacy of his own home,
proved his to be a heart overflowing with the genuine “ milk of
human kindness.” Mr. Nayler was married to a talented lady
not less remarkable than himself. They celebrated the fiftieth
anniversary of their wedding day last year, at Stawell, and soon
after, on the 28th July, after much trouble and sorrow, Mrs.
Nayler departed to a “ better world.” As soon as convenient
thereafter Mr. Nayler came to Melbourne, where he was
received with warm affection and solicitous regard. Before his
arrival an arrangement was come to whereby his future wants
and comforts were to be attended to, without compromising his
independence, which he was jealous in preserving. Although
no blood relations then surrounded his grave which received his
mortal remains, few indeed have departed this life leaving behind
them such a sense of bereavement and regret for lost opportu¬
nities, as were experienced by many who had the pleasure and
profit of Mr. Nayler’s intimate acquaintance.
The choir sung Byron’s fine hymn “ Immortality,” at the con¬
clusion of which they and others threw their floral offerings
into the grave till the coffin was almost hidden with flowers.
, This concluded the proceedings, and the friends dispersed to
their several homes.—Harbinger of Light, Melbourne.
foetti).
A VOICE FROM THE GRAVE*,
All needful works accomplished and endured,
Nearer, and yet more near, my God to Thee;
Touch we the things that are with hand assured,
With hand relaxed, the things that seem to be,
Lest, like the expiration of a breath,
Which a child breathes and watches on a glass, *
Our breath of being all absorbed in death.
With all those things that pass away, we pass.
For where the treasure is the heart also
Is; and where is the heart the life has root;
And in what soil soever ye may sow—
There—and there only, may ye seek your fruit.
And many seeds men sow in many soils,
Watering the ground about with many tears
And sweat of brow, who yet from all their toils
And sorrows, pluok no other fruit than fears.
For so is man, as one who in a dream
Of pleasantness would fain see all as sooth ;
Yet knows the things he sees are things that seem,
And dreads the hour of waking into truth.
For what is truth ? The altar, or the fire;
Blood, or the life; the sabbath or the rest;
Words, or the thought; the deed, or the desire
The expressive symbol, or the thing expressed ? .
Is it the furtive hour on drowsy wing?
Is it the dial whereon the sunbeams play?
That is the truth? Is time the real thing?
Time, or the shifting sand that marks its way ?
Aspiring to the home from whence it came,
The spark of life, lent only and not given,
Plays o’er the altar-stone of time in flame,
Consumes the form, but clothes the soul for heaven.
Wherefore, dear child, live in the soul of things ;
There is thy home; thence is thy place of birth;
So to the parent sun all flame upsprings;
While earthy things but gravitate to earth.
From Avrora, by A. A.
iEorrespon'&ence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
INSTANTANEOUS POETRY.
Sir,—As many very striking verses are now being written
through the hand of Miss Showers, and as she is rapidly developing
into a medium for a different class of manifestations, I beg you will
be so kind as to publish the following lines. They indicate a
peculiar phase of spiritual control, are for the most part at variance
with her own religious opinions, and offer a direct contradiction to
the statement that strong physical manifestations are only obtained
by media who are controlled by an unintellectual and low order of
spirits.* The verses are given off instantaneously, without a
* We believe that “John King,” who gives this poetry, has given no
physical manifestations, and has from the first asked Mrs. Showers to
send away the chief spirit who produces them.—En.
202
THE StlEITTJALIST.
Oct. 22, 1875.
moment’s thought, in answer to questions;, and this subject is
worthy of attention, because I have never heard of another similar
instance. My experience of mediums is, however, necessarily limited
as I see such wonderful and varying phenomena constantly in my
own house tffat I never care to seek them elsewhere.
The following poem was delivered in a trance state. The con¬
trol was at first accompanied by symptoms of suffering, which
gradually disappeared. The medium rose slowly and with diffi¬
culty to a standing position, the countenance became transfigured,
the voice trembled a little at first, but ultimately became firm,
impressive, solemn.
There’s a path—it is smooth, it is slippery,
And dark with the blackness of night,
And poor sinners who follow go blindly,
For they know not the beauty of sight.
. ’Tis a path that to follow bewilders,
More deep its intricacies grow;
• For no light glimmers far in the distance,
Nay, nothing but sorrow and woe.
There’s a den—in it demons are howling
Fiendish howls, .for their malice is great,
And they jeer at the lost ones’ impatience
To enter the infernal gate.
And the tempters have urged and are urging
The weak and the frail from their rest;
But they shun all the good and the noble,
For they know them the Saviour has blest.
But the blind ones proceed, all unconscious
Of the terrors for them laid in store,
Not dreaming they’ve parted with mercy,
To find it again never more.
1 have told thee of sin and of sorrow,
I have hinted at something far worse ;
I implore thee to pray, lest to-morrow
Should send thee a terrible curse.
A curse which thy prayers cannot banish,
A curse which is ever the same,
A curse which I know will not vanish,
A curse both in deed and in name.
Now, is it not better to worship
What we feel is divine and sublime ?
And should we not turn to religion ? •
For that is the ladder to climb.
And we know, too, where glory awaits us,
We who stand on the far border land;
And we know ’tis the Saviour who’ll greet us
With His fair and His shadowy band.
u John” I asked, “ is yovr name really King ? ’’
Yes, King is my name, and with kingly power
Will I watch by thy side through the dreariest hour.
Another time he “ wrote," on seeing me somewhat depressed and
desponding—
' Does thy heart feel sad and weary ?
Does thy journey grow too dreary ?
Turn to Him who watches all,
He’ll not let the sufferer fall.
“ There are so many difficulties and perplexities in Spiritualism, John,"
/ said, “ still I feel certain that it conveys a firm hope of another life.
Is it not so ? ”
He who has seen, the sufferer die,
Has helped to'close his glassy eye,
Has heard his voice in accents soft,
Implore his spirit to soar aloft—
Can he forget what he has seen?
Does he not know what all must mean ?
His friend is happier far than he,
And sorrow for him no more can be.
Still, death remains a terrible, an inscrutable mystery.
Death, to the loved ones who linger behind,
Theirs is a sorrow that bows all mankind;
Ah, ’tis a suffering, and worthy the name
When it breaks the sore heart with its agonised pain.
And thou, too, hast felt it, and suffered alone,
For friendship is nothing wherewith to atone;
For remorse, when consigning thy son to the clay,
Thou durst not e’en murmur, “To God will I pray.”
Can you tell me what the remorse was about ?
It is not I, child, who can comprehend thee,
But ’tis the Great God—’tis He who doth send me;
He bids me watch o’er thee, and keep thee from wrong,
For He knows the sweet cadence I have in my sdng.
Is the Catholic religion the true onet
Think’st thou it possible He can be bought
By the false doctrines that priests have taught ?
In bygone years He held his sway;
’Tis o'er—the Church rules strong to-day.
The priests are many; their power is strong;
They tell you you must not do this—it is wrong :
And then you listen, but seldom seek
To find out where their point is weak.
But God, the merciful, looks down in anger
As He marks your deplorable languor;
Were He to speak, I’m sure He would say,
“ Be free, and worship Me in your own way.”
Do you blow anything about the devil ? Can you tell me about my
son f
In a bright star, ah me, how fair,
Thy son with God doth dwell;
He bids me watch o’er thee with care,
And knows thou farest well.”
Is he happy ?
Happy! In that hallowed spot
Gan he be otherwise ?
.Wilt thou not pray to share his lot ?
Is it not paradise ?
Will you ever bring him as you promised?
Ask not, for time alone will show
That which, just now, thou may’st not know.
Did he die a Christian ? 1 am anxious to know.
He died believing in God’s word,
And angels gathered near and heard.
Would you advise us to embrace the faith of the Church again ?
Nay, do not let thy reason bow
Before the Church’s proud array;
It might be well for thee e’en now,
But ere thou doest it—wait and pray.
Prayer is of much avail then ?
Pray with a fervour firm and strong—
Pray that thou may’st not be led to do wrong:
Pray to be guided by God’s blessed hand;
Yea, thou hast only to ask and command.
With this counsel, Sir, which I recommend all who are in
trouble and affliction to follow, I conclude for the present.
Fredebica Showers.
tests.
Sir,—The proposed crucial glass-shade-pehcil-test seems to re¬
commend a general suspension of the conclusions, arrived at by
the laborious experiments of Messrs. Crookes, Wallace, and others,
until the final signature of the pencil puts a seal to them. But
there is another £50 note in Paris, deposited by a truth-seeking
Englishman to be picked at by a number-reading clairvoyant. After
these feats are performed the mediums may be permitted to be free
from the suspicion of being conjurors, and many a respectable
family will be relieved from the painful anxiety, caused by their
now sheltering dangerous swindlers among their own members,
babies included. Still some work is left to be done. I have a
friend who will not give in, until, holding both hands of the
medium, his great grandmother passes from the other side through
a wall two feet thick. In vain I argue that she, living in spheres
of higher intelligence, may possibly not like to descend to regions
where such tests are required; nay, that even the separation from
her relative may form an essential part of her happiness. He
insists obstinately on his request. The pencil-test in question,
however, ought to settle all doubts, after all, especially if it would,
after writing in the presence of witnesses, finish up with a little
lively ballet dancing. Then the pencil and glass shade should be
placed in a shrine in the British Association, and pilgrimages unit¬
ing all shades of belief, inaugurated to pay homage to the wonder¬
ful relic! Christian Beimers.
Manchester, Oct. 15, 1875.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—Having read a letter written by W. A. Dixon in your paper
of October 8th, headed “ Spiritual Phenomena and Conjurors,” I
beg to state that I attended Dr. Lynn’s seances in Hastings myself,
and with a Mr. Neile stepped on to the stage to try and find out the
modus operand! by which the various tests were accomplished.
First the medium’s hands were tied firmly behind his back by myself
and two other gentlemen with what is termed a “ reef knot,” and by
means of a piece of stout rope; another gentleman tied two more
knots on top of that. I then tied the other hand behind his back
with what is called a “ running bolin,” and then tied three more
knots on the top of that, so that it was impossible for the so-called
medium to untie them while his hands were thus behind his back.
I then tied one of his legs to the chair; another gentleman tied the
ether. Two bells were placed behind the screen; the curtain was
then drawn, and in one moment we saw a hand over the top of the
screen and the bell ringing at the same time, and as the curtain was
drawn the bells were dropping, The medium was in the same
position as when he first started. On examining the knots they
were the same as we tied them. I then said to Dr. Lynn that the
medium had passed his hand over his head. He replied that I might
Oct. 22, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
take two handkerchiefs and bind his arms to the chair. I did so.
An iron ring was given me to examine; it was perfectly sound, and
I marked the. ring with my knife; it was placed on the medium’s
head, and in a second it was on his arm and not one knot touched.
The curtain was then closed and the ring thrown over. We ex¬
amined the knots again, and they were still the same. The chair
used was one taken from the auditorium. While the other gentle¬
men were examining the ring I placed a small piece of paper between,
the medium’s hands and the rope, by which means I could tell if ho
moved them. If he had moved, the paper .would have dropped to
the floor. The next test was taking his vest off. We were asked
by Dr. Lynn to tie the button-holes of his coat together with a piece
of list; we did so, and then sealed the knots, and tied another
piece of rope around his body. The curtain was closed, and he
took off his vest in one second. The curtain opened and not one
seal broken, and the little piece of paper in the same place; the coat
was also removed from the medium’s back, so that we could examine
the vest. How to account for all this puts me in a fog. Is it really
Spiritualism or trickery ? If a trick it is the best I have ever wit¬
nessed. My only excuse for intruding on your valuable space is
that I may hear more about the facts. J. W. White.
Pilot Inn, 15, St. Andrew's-road, Hastings, Oct. 17th, 1875.
THE VOCATION OF THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sir,—Such is the title of a lecture to be delivered at Islington
Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, next Sunday evening, by Dr. Hitch-
man, and surely of all subjects it is the most deeply interest¬
ing for that class of thinkers who occupy themselves with the
religious aspect of Spiritualism.
What is the vocation of the Spiritualist ? Verily, methinks the
question involves so much, that a daring hand, and a soaring mind
are' required to deal worthily with it. Oiir friend Dr. Hitchman
possesses both, and if he succeeds in impressing on the Spiritualists
of the Liverpool Psychological Society the responsibility of their
position, morally and religiously, he will have achieved a great
work.
What is the vocation of the true Spiritualist? To me it seems
that ever and always he should aspire, even if he fail in attaining
it, to that state pointed at by the greatest Spiritualist, when he said,
“ Be ye therefore perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect”
—to sink every lesser object in the one great aim, the spread of
truth; but greater even than this, for it involves all the rest—
should not the Spiritualist adopt also this divine precept of our im¬
mortal poet—
“ To thine own self be true,
And it must follow as_the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.”.
How many, or rather, how few, perhaps, live by these rules of
purity, none can tell excepting those denizens of the other, world,
some of whom are always near us, and who behold us not as we
seem, but as we are, and to whom it is given to see the secret motive
underlying every word and deed. Methinks that it is the vocation
of the Spiritualist to have ever before him the things which he
knows to be facts, but which the outside world, not having yet re¬
ceived the truth as the Spiritualist has received it, but dimly
guesses at.
Again, to recollect ever that the purity of the thoughts and
the motives are now building the spiritual home of each one, are
now fashioning the spiritual body of the future life, which will be
beautiful or the reverse in exact accordance, not with the seeming
life as it has appeared to the world, but with the hidden life from
within.
The theme of the Spiritualist’s vocation is a lofty one, and loads
in its elaboration to many other thoughts than can be dealt with
now. That our lecturer may be inspired to press home to his
hearers the importance to themselves and to the world of their
vocation, is the earnest wish of E. L. S. N.
Liverpool, Oct 16th, 1875.
“ AURORA.”
Dear Sir,—I have not yet seen in your valuable journal any
notice of the exquisite volume of poems, entitled Aurora, recently
published by Messrs. King and Go. A volume so truly spiritual in
teaching, and—whether acknowledged as such or no—so full of
spirit inspiration, should be in the hands of all Spiritualists.
An appreciative review of this book, written by Dr. Theobald,
appears in the Nonconformist of October 13th. I fear you could not
find space for the whole, therefore I forward you the following
extracts, by the perusal of which your readers may form some idea
of the treasure now within their grasp. F. J. Theobald.
Hastings.
“ With this unpretending title we are introduced to one of the
most remarkable volumes of poetry we have met with ■ for some
time. It is the work apparently of two authors, who sign their
poems respectively A. A. and A. M.; and, we believe, we are not
mistaken in identifying them with the son of a poet who died some
years ago, and the daughter of a pair who are still living and have
been well known by their literary and poetical writings for more
than a generation. There is one spirit common to these two con¬
tributors. Both are fond of dwelling on the hidden meaning of
things—the mystic influences and forces that underlie common life
—the strange, fantastic visions of dream-life—the higher life that
is dawning now, and is awaiting fuller development in future
generations. The opening and closing poems are both entitled
Aurora, and are both by A. A., and the bright, prophetic spirit of
eager expectation which finds glowing and rapturous expression in
these two poems is to some extent the key-note of the volume,
and is the inspiration which lights up other themes, and touches
them with a warm and attractive radiance. ...
“ Most of these poems will not disclose their wealth of meaning
to a hasty and unsympathetic glance. Some are exceedingly diffi¬
cult to interpret, and we are not always sure that we can find the
key that unlocks them. But they are poems which one can linger
over with a certain sense of exhilaration, as one sees definite ideal
shapes slowly loom into distinctness as we patiently watch them.
Thus gazing, the luminous mist that enwraps them gradually
changes from a cloud which hides the thought into a glorious and
resplendent canopy that crowns and adorns it. Poetry has a
charter to venture into that dim and bodiless region which
science is equally justified in ignoring, because it has no
latitude or longitude, and cannot be mapped in distinct
outline. Yet it is absolutely true that no one of us, however
prosaic, can be faithful to his own inner life unless he too has a
retreat which the vulture’s eye hath not seen, where he moves and
converses with strange, weird essences that his practical reason
can give no account of, and which consequently remain locked up as
a sacred secret within* his own bosom. When the poet visits this
mystic region, and seeks to fix and arrest its phantasmal shapes
by use of language that is partly illusive, partly symbolic, often
audacious and unprecedented, he will only be understood by those
whose experience can supply a key to interpret his words. What
is so delicate, refined, and abstruse, can only be approximately
uttered in language—and that language must be essentially poetry,
whether it takes the form of verse or not. The poems before us
dwell very much amidst what Lord Lytton expressively called the
half-seen, and any one who reads them carefully, and with that
reverence that any deep and full nature has a right to command,
will find much that immediately meets the best experiences of his
inner life, and may reasonably hope that what is at first dim will
become luminous as his nature expands and his self-knowledge
ripens. A symbolic utterance may remain an unsolved mystery for
years, till a sudden flash of perception illuminates it, and the
mystery vanishes at once and for ever. Readers of Av/rofi'a,
while finding much that is immediately available for use and cul¬
ture, may lay up a store of these sphinx-like sayings, which will
enrich the mind even before they are completely grasped, and
become, each of them, a thing of beauty and a joy for ever, as their
secrets are successively disclosed when life’s progress brings us
abreast of them.”
ilrobitmal ftetos.
PORTSMOUTH.
A PSYCHOLOGICAL CURIOSITY—A SPLENDID RING TEST.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, curate of Portsmouth, in continuation
of his narrative of,last week, writes as follows:—
“ I must not omit to notice other tests which were afforded the
other day at dinner table.' Dr. Monck was, in the process of
natural deglutition, suddenly. controlled, and gave a characteristic
message to one of the ladies, purporting to come from her late
hushand. That this was the case was rendered conclusive by
various communications then rapped out, for his name, and place
of death, and number of the house, and name of street were given
(19, Hertford-street, Coventry), all of which were correct, none of
which were known to the medium, and some, of which were un¬
known to myself. The peculiar name, also, of a suburban part of
the city where the lady lived after her husband’s death was given,
in this case verbally by Dr. Monck. His utterance was suddenly
controlled, and he was forced to say ‘ the Butts.’ ‘ Why you were
not.... in the Butts.’ He could not understand the allusion, for,
being semi-conscious when the statement was made through him he
thought the peculiar name of the district indicated had reference
to the garden water-butt: and touching the truth and aptitude
and pertinence of the assertion made I can testify, and do solemnly
declare that Dr. Monck could have had no knowledge whatever
regarding the private matter in question.
The intelligence that this wrought through the medium, and
which was assumed to be the spirit of the father of one of the
ladies, gave other communications—to wit, his trade and calling in
this life, the name of a Manchester firm with which he transacted
business, the street in which the warehouse was situate, the Chris¬
tian name and surname of the proprietor, the speciality of his
manufacture. Moreover the name of a brother of this Man¬
chester merchant was given. “ John also ” was spelt out by way
of supplement to what had previously transpired; and, in a way
difficult to describe, the manifesting intelligence or spirit-friend
wanted us to remember, and successfully brought to our minds the
fact that he had transacted business not only with the one first-
named, but with the brother John also.
“ Thus during dinner was this intelligence or invisible spirit-friend
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 22, 1875.
with us as one of ourselves, taking part in the conversation, and
.giving us tests and messages of the most important and convincing
nature, both by raps and the medium’s controlled utterance. He
addressed his daughter in a pet name, spelt as he was wont to spell
it, which was the unusual way, and manifested a knowledge of the
most secret matters of the family that bewildered us. Now these
were arcanas utterly beyond the possibility of Dr. Monck having the
remotest perception of, who clandestinely heard more than he felt at
liberty to tell the ladies, but which he afterwards confided to me,
the whole of which I knew to be true.
“But out of the many marvels that transpire in the presence of
Dr. Monck, perhaps none are more scientifically interesting than one
I witnessed the other evening. .Dr. Monck threw down on the
table an ordinary white handkerchief, and in view of all, in a good
light, this was seen to rise and fall as though some animate object
wer'e beneath it. We, with others, were requested to place our hands
upon it, and felt a throbbing substance there, which after a time
seemed to melt away. Dr. Monck then placed his hands upon it for
a moment, and this appeared to restore the power that moved the
handkerchief, and the pulsations'-beneath it grew strong again.
The medium then asked me to hold my hand over his hand, which
was held about three inches from, that is over, the handkerchief,
and this considerably increased the motive power. An after occur¬
rence called our attention to the fact that it was the left hand in
both cases that was thus used, for as I chanced during this experi¬
ment to hold my. right hand over Dr. Monck’s left, we perceived a
sudden diminution of power. Following up the inquiry in the
direction thus suggested, we made a pile of left hands over the
handkerchief, with the space of about two inches between each
hand. This psychic force inflated the handkerchief to such an ex¬
tent that it rose as if filled with gas, and actually left the table, and
hung for. a moment in suspension an inch or so above it. I then
substituted my right hand for the left, and down fell the handker¬
chief. the dexter power of one hand apparently overcoming the
sinister power of several. This was observed repeatedly, and
various experiments were tried that seemed to show that an attrac¬
tive force attended our left hand, and a repellent power the right.
So a circle of left hands was now made round the rim of a tam¬
bourine, about two inches above it, and, in a short space, so strong
was the attractive power upon the instrument that it rose from the
table bodily, and floated as if on water.
“The latest wonder we have had is the ring test. This in
various forms has been afforded at nearly every sitting with
Dr. Monck. But the special marvel of this sort happened on Wed¬
nesday last. The circle was composed altogether of scientific
gentlemen. I had in my possession a mahogany curtain ring,
that would not pass over my hand, and as Dr. Monck’s hand is
larger than mine, I was sure, and have since had proof, that it
would not go over his. Yet at this moment it is on Dr. Monck’s
wrist, and will have to be sawn off. A -gentleman of prac¬
tical and scientific knowledge, and large experience in mechanics,
filling an important post under government, held the medium’s left
hand, and another gentleman held Dr. Monck’s right hand. The
first-named gentleman had the ring in his keeping, holding his
hand upon it as it lay on the table, while at the time the medium’s
hand was resting on his.- Then instantly, as the light was turned
down, the left hand of the one was grasped by the right hand of
the other. Without loosing contact for a second, and ere another
moment had passed, the ring was on Dr. Monck’s wrist. In the
process of the mystery, the medium whispered to the gentleman
referred to, and said he clairaudiently heard his control say, “ I
am going to do what (so-and-so) could never do; ” indicating,
with a peculiar test in the term used, a gentleman of high scientific
position under Government, who was sitting opposite. Dr. Monck
was in ignorance as to the meaning of the term employed, which
the gentleman spoken to took pains to hide, lest the other should
take offence. The ring was then inspected. I have had it for some
five months, and first procured it for the purposes for which it has
now been used, only that I had hoped to be the wearer of it under the
same extraordinary conditions. I therefore know every mark upon it,
and am assured it was never out of my possession or off the table
for a moment. A surgeon has in the presence of three of us
examined it, and the medium’s hand and wrist; has tried to take
it off, but cannot, and says it can only be done—if it is not sawn off—
by putting Dr. Monck under chloroform, and using other surgical
means that would take time to effect, and even then he is doubtful
whether he should not hurt the hand in the process. So Dr. Monck
still wears the ring.”
ACCRINGTON.
XECTUBE AT THE PEEL INSTITUTE.
According to previous announcement in the local papers Mr. J.
Coates delivered a lecture on “ Spiritualism: Why I like it,” in
reply to the Rev. Mr. Ashcroft, a local preacher, whose remarks on
the subject of Spiritualism are not of the most flattering descrip-
.tion. Mr. Coates said that his publib statements in connection
therewith were free from much foundation in fact, although it is
quite possible there may be some accurate information in some
things, he said; for it would be almost impossible for a man to talk
for two hours steadily without his observations possessing a little
reliability. Mr. Ashcroft asserted that Spiritualism is pretentious
and bombastic; it is frivolous and ridiculous; it is unscriptural and
anti-christian; it is grossly immoral and blasphemous, and no man
of any standing in science, philosophy, or religion would have any¬
thing to do with it. It was a frightful delusion, the hearts of men
becoming desperately wicked and led away by seducing spirits i
these latter days; he himself would not have anything to do with
these deeds of darkness, and earnestly advised his hearers, as they
valued their eternal happiness and the salvation of their souls, to
have nothing to do with it. Mr. Coates added that he did not forget
in this remarkable tirade to attack tho alleged flight of Dr. Monck,
and some of the sayings of the guides of Mrs. Tappan, about
comets and the light towers on the planet Venus during the period
of her transit. These seemed to be the principal items of Mr.
Ashcroft’s lecture on “ Spiritualism: Why I object to it.”
The presence of Mr. Ashcroft at the lecture by Mr. Coates was
respectfully invited, and he or any able opponent challenged, but
he did not put in an appearance. Mr. Coates dealt with the ques¬
tion, “ If a man die, shall he live again?” Running rapidly down
the changing scenes of time, glancing at the various opinions of tho
great thinkers in all ages, as well as the pent-up throbbings and
aspirations of the soul of man everywhere—at the shrines of
Buddha, of Brahma; also in Nature’s amphitheatre where the red
man adores the Great Spirit and looks forward to a happy transi¬
tion to the hunting grounds of life. He said that in this our
Christian land are thousands who ask the question, but get
no answer. Ask the Church, she cannot answer; spiritual
gifts have departed from her, wrapped up as she is in
ritual and ceremony, fighting within and without over beliefs
fossilised, and dead creeds. < The inquirer, he said, must seek
elsewhere. He goes to the- man of science, but he cannot
answer, because he has not commenced to delve into the realms of
mind. Unfortunately, for this reason, he sometimes assumes more
than his physical facts warrant, by declaring man not to be a living
spirit, and God a figure of speech, immortality a figment of a
diseased brain, or a relic of superstition—an exploded dream of the
past. Spiritualism, said the lecturer, does and can answer the
question, beyond the shadow of a doubt. The naturalist demands
proof—it, gives it; the man of lofty ideal looks for superior
teaching to that found in the churches, based on the dead past, not
sufficient for the living present—it gives it. It truly becomes all
things to all men that it may win some. After answering several
objections and questions contained in Mr. Ashcroft’s lecture, and
demonstrating the efficiency of Spiritualism in its modern phase to
answer the great question of the nineteenth century—If a man die
shall he live again ?—Mr. Coates said that was why he liked it.
An invitation was given, by the chairman to any one who felt
disposed to ask questions. Several were put and answered'. The
meeting passed off pleasantly; perfect order seemed to reign. Dr.
Brown ably occupied the chair. Mr. Meredith read the Scriptures,
and kindly assisted in leading the singing. Mr. Spencer T. Hall,
the mesmerist, of Sherwood Forest, was present.
NORTH SHIELDS.
There are a few Spiritualists here, and, in fact, some are to bo
found all along the banks of the Tyne. Spiritualism is beginning
to show itself. In Walker and Jarrow there are circles. Mr.
Robson, of North Shields, is an active member of the Newcastle
society, and a few weeks ago he took a number of his workmen to
a special seance with Mrs. Petty, since which ■ they have formed a
circle to investigate for themselves, but did not get anything to
their satisfaction. Mr. Robson then induced Mrs. Rhodes to attend
as a developing medium on Wednesday evening, October 13th, on
which occasion two of the members showed signs of mediumship,
and they obtained the ordinary table movements even while Mrs.
Rhodes was away from the table. Mr. Rhodes was controlled, and
by impersonation was made to show one of the sitters his right
arm, which for the time being was useless ; the gentleman present
recognised it at once as a test from a son of his in the spirit world,
who had a broken arm, the position and attitude being identical. It
is needless to add that the medium had no knowledge of the matter
whatever. Mr. Lambelle, of South Shields, the new trance medium,
is announced to address the members' of the Newcastle society on
Sunday evening next.
NEWCASTLE.
M. Aksakof has had several special seances with the Petty family.
He returned to London on Tuesday night, and has since had a
seance with Mrs. Marshall, the right medium for the St. Petersburg
committee.
Seance at Weirs Court.—The usual Tuesday evening dark
circle was held last week at the Society’s Rooms, when about six-
and-thirty members were present, including our Russian visitor,
M. Aksakof. As soon as' Miss Wood was entranced by “ Pokey,”
the latter became very inquisitive with the illustrious stranger,
made humorous observations about his personal appearance, and
promised that if he wasa “ good boy” she would try and materialise
herself on another occasion if he attended. The manifestations
were of a physical nature, and of the ordinary power and rapidity.
The singing of the well-known verses, “Ring the bell, watchman,”
was accompanied by the spirits ringing the bells in remarkably
good time, and with effect.
Oct. 22, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, .PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SA.LH AT THB
BRANCH OFFICE OF « THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THB MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition. 6s.
RESEARCHES IN Tfiffi PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. P.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND ’ MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s. '
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.8. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and Witchcraft The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only autborised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Sciencei and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit* and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by. Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Deaton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes hy which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows, itself down to the question of the reliability of
■ clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
*hip of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epos Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the fhets to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances arc not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition, 7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand-.
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of musio
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE. LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is . contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision .of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William. Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR P.LANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d. *
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
MRS'.CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. -An interesting littl e
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumshi p
of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribe*
of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF - MODEKN SPIRITUALISM, by Thoma* P
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMaL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prix e
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “Family Hwrald." (2 vols.) 10s "
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iv
Got.-22, 1875.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON D4VIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,, .
The Seer. „ III,
. The Reformer. „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. ' „
• Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest .
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions’from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ,
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Eree Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
' The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and N erves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology ,
Morning Lectures .   .
s. d.
. 16 0
. r e
. 1 6
. 1 6
. r e
. 1 6
. 1 6
. 4 0
. 7 C
6 6
7 6
s. d.
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
6 ,0
18 0
16 0
7 6
10 C
16 0
10 6
10 6
6 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson)" . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spikituamst Newspaper .......
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . .
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Bitel) . . . . .
■ History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ......
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ......
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beai) ......
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A, Trin. Coll., Cam. . . . . . .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts ......
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre-
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated, into English from the Chinese
Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . . 12 0
Son, Remember; an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. • . . , . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS. Special edition
for Schools . . . . . . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OP MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
rpHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
-I. FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from II a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from II a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—"hlr. J. Priest.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hltchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th e
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjo treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69. OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; And
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
ANTED, by a Widow Lady, of a kind and cheerful
disposition, an appointment as Housekeeper, Companion,
Amanuensis, or any position of trust and confidence. Would not object
to travel, or a non-resident engagement would be accepted. Address,
C. W. 8., care of Mr. Ingram, 267a, Oxford-street, W.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath€drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etude's psychologiques,
fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
3 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
• How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM are discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday, Sep¬
tember 15th, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepence. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O,
