[Rkgistebed as a Newspaper.
JUtosapxr toillj SpintuaHsm xn (Bxmi
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltpnaia. ROME; The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 206.—(Yol. IX.—No. 1.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents,
Spirit Phenomena and Men of Science   1
Spiritualism in Mexico ... ...' ... ...  185 ... ... 1
Dr. Slade’s Mediumship and Men of Science... ... ... ... 2
The Testimonial to Mr. B. Coleman  2
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
Half-yearly General Meeting—Report of the Council... 3
The Organisation of American Spiritualists   ... 4
The Development of Test Manifestations...   4
A Seance with Dr. Slade. By George Wyld, M.D  6
Spiritualism in Continental Europe. No. 1. By Emily
Kislingbury      ... ... 6
The National Association of Spiritualists     7
The Sensations of a Risen Spirit  7
Correspondence:—Spirit Faces and Hands—Have the
Lower Animals Souls ?—Suggested Tests for. Disbe¬
lievers—Speculations about the Beginning of Life—
More about “ S. J. Sabel, Esq.”—North of England
Spiritualists’ Conference Committee—The Education of
' the Children of Spiritualists—What are Works?  9
Spiritual Lectures in Liverpool ...   ■... ... .;. 12
Paragraphs:—Superstition at Eccles, 2; Mr. Morse’s Expe¬
riences, 5; Spiritualism in the Newcastle District, 6;
An Extraordinary Story, 5; Montenegrin Doubles, 6;
Mrs. Weldon’s Concert, 6; Flower Worshippers, 6;
Spiritualism in Montevideo, 7; The Experimental Re¬
search Committee, 7; Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial La¬
bours, 12; Swedenborgianism ...    12
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
East London spiritual meetings.-
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’u
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications Of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kakdeo. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
T>EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Aw Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &e., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
6s. 6d, Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O«
Entrance in Woburn Street,
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer:—Mr. Thomas Bltton.
Rqoms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, • discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on theyfrsf Thursday evening in each mouth. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Sodj^j" are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Associatiojfby that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Assocmtion to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetingirand seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: .to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary MembershipAnnual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. Ali subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m„ to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some v6ry rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guiuea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
libiary. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
; Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary. J
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will b*
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
A PICNIC
Under the auspices of the above Society (in aid of the fund
for re-decorating their Lecture Hall) will be held in the
GROUNDS of Mr. W. R. Armstrong, at HIGH-CROSS
LODGE, BENWELL, on Monday afternoon, August 7th, 1876
(Bank Holiday). Tea will be provided in the Grounds at 8
o’clock.
Tickets, including admission and tea, Is. 6d. each, may be hadat
Mr. E. J. Blake’s, Grainger-street. For admission to grounds
only, 6d. each, pay at gate; children, 6d. each.
In the Evening a
TRANCE ADDRESS
Will be delivered by Mr. J. J. MORSE, of London, under the
Trees, (subject to be announced), at the close of which a collec¬
tion will be made.
A cordial invitation to all.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for August, 1876,
Members are requested to note that the offices of the Asso¬
ciation, at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed during the
absence of the secretary, from the 14th to the 28th August.
Thursday, 3rd.—Library Committee, at 4.30.
Monday, Ith.—Seance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, St/i.—Prize Essay Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ . Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m. At the con¬
clusion, or in the absence of ordinary business,
the meeting will be made Special, as here¬
tofore announced, for the consideration of
certain amendments to the rules of the Asso¬
ciation, notices whereof will be sent to each
member seven days previous to the meeting.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Neanceal
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIEIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
RIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
he obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. lid.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD!S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of.
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
• It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
Ihe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse,. 80, Geqrge-street,
Sloane-square, S.W, . j
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua. 4, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. _
Alexander Colder, Es<i., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles. Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-viUas, Upper Norwood.
Everltt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex^
N.W.
1. Mrs.. 19. Cambridcte-street. Hyae-parK, w.
W.
HUchmanrWilliam, M.B.C.S.'I 29, Ersklne-street, Isliiigton-sq.,,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W. .
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin ft., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 208, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Eeigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road, fiollana-road, Kensington, W.
Cofljn, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Kichmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
- heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T„ Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- .
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., ALA., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. ft., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Alildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. At., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, 8. W.
Walhouse, At. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, 1>. H. M.A., LL.AI., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin ft. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr, J, H, Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook.
Resident Secretary.
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Alias Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.AI.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Aladrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Alme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.8.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A; J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 48, Drummond-street, Carlton, Alelbourne.
AI. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Alaxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
- Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Air W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 38, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W, H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,988, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
IS. crowen, Egq.,.M.D., 196, CUntou-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U .S.A.
AT. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa,
j. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 8, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
AI. de Bassompierre, 283, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.^
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Alontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 87, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Airs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Alodling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Alusee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-roatl, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Bud^Pesth. Secretary, AI. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzheraog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Alary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84,2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
ME. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
N.B.—Mr. Williams is at present on the Continent.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, w ithin a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
M
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomaoia, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions In Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Airs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitohman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Air. John Priest.
Auditors.—Air. H. J. Charlton, and Air. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embtacing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry. Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiay, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Alagazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London :—Simekin, Marshall ft Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c, used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Fvbnishino Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, ftc.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt ot letter or
telegram.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, II a.m. Treatmeat by clair¬
voyant Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
lY/TR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James's House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.C.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PDBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o'clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
lust. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, tor a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 dally, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms In ac¬
cordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l}d.; or six copies post free
for fid.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street;
Islington. A good11 Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture,
is anxious to obtain
having passed a hospital,
an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
boue-road, W.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss 8., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry:
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plats. 6 j
guineas a week for four months. Boferences given and re -
qulred. A, B-, Poet-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
% ul 1^ JFtiogr^s of % jlijtqnti} anb ^if|it[a of
Volume Kijse. Kumber One.
LONDON. FRIDAY, AUGUST 4th, 1876.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
Last week Mr. Carleton Massey raised the question in
these pages, whether it would not be wise to invite some of
the best known professed men of science in this country to
witness the manifestations which now take place through
the mediumship of Dr. Slade. In spite of their reprehen¬
sible position in relation to spiritual phenomena for many
years past, he argued that, if they did not attest similar
manifestations to those which he witnessed through Dr. Slade
when they saw them, they would exhibit a want of common
honesty. But have they not exhibited a want of common
honesty in the past ? When the professors of Harvard
University promised to report anything they might witness
through the mediumship of the Davenport brothers, and
they afterwards came into contact with phenomena which
they could not explain, and which the public would not have
believed, however well attested, they gave no report at all,
but preferred to temporarily save their skins at the expense
of their historical reputation, for the time is coming when
all the merits of such cases will be perfectly understood by
the public at large. When, according to M. Aksakof, the
St. Petersburg committee heard loud raps coming from
a table while members of the committee were ex¬
amining the table both from above and below, and
when they omitted to put this fact in the report
which they drew up, was there not a want of common
honesty? Again, Dr. Carpenter once told a Chelsea
audience that a paper by Mr. Crookes in relation to
these abnormal phenomena had been rejected by the Royal
Society because of an error in one of his experiments, which
error Dr. Carpenter illustrated by apparatus which he took
the trouble to fit up before the audience, and was not Dr.
Carpenter’s conduct reprehensible when, after he discovered
that Mr. Crookes had not made any such mistake, and that
his paper had not been rejected upon such grounds, he
neither apologised to Mr. Crookes, nor, so far as we know,
sent information to the Chelsea institution that the supposed
information which he had given them was altogether without
foundation ?
There is plenty of room for difference of opinion upon the
question raised by Mr. Massey, and although we do not agree
with him in the idea that the line of action he proposes is
altogether judicious, we do not feel any very strong objection
to seeing the experiment tried. As the mortal remains of
all of us must find their way to some cemetery at no very
distant date, one would naturally suppose that any practical
experimental evidence within reach, as to the reality and
nature of the spirit body and of spirit life would be hailed
with joy by every living soul, but experience proves that
this is not the case. Pre-conceived religious and materialistic
ideas, accumulated during a lifetime, dread a stern en¬
counter with hard facts; moreover, the lives of many per¬
sons cause them to fear the existence of any evidence of the
reality of a life beyond the grave, unless accompanied by
some promise that the consequences of their evil deeds may
be shifted upon somebody else—anything rather than the
doctrine of atonement by works, by the payment of the
uttermost farthing. Hence, as a matter of fact it is prac¬
tically found that only persons of a particular order of mind
naturally gravitate into the Spiritual movement, and that
if people have not this order of mind they are either indif¬
ferent to Spiritualism, or have a strong antipathy thereto.
Natural opponents and natural supporters of Spiritualism can
be found inside the world of science, but all experience
tends to show that it is best to introduce the subject only to
those whose mental nature requires it, and not to those who
cannot assimilate its truths and who dread its facts.
Perhaps those who hold the views of Mr. Massey, and
those who sympathise with the ideas just stated, may meet
||| upon common ground, by resolving to use Dr. Slade’s
| i powers to secure converts from among literary men. These
| (| have more influence in the world than men of science, and
II have been found to be far less bigoted and prejudiced.
III When The Times newspaper wished to know what was true
11| in relation to Spiritualism, what did it do ? It adopted the
II j common sense course of sending a gentleman upon its staff
| > to observe the facts for two or three weeks, after which it
j 11 did what any journal of honour was bound to do, that is to
III say, printed a faithful account of that which its own repre-
| i | sentative had witnessed. The record thus published by The
111 Times extended over many columns. Where can any honour-
i 11 able conduct like this be found in connection with our
! 11 scientific bodies ? Where is the representative appointed by
11; the Royal Society to collect information about these most
I j | important phenomena of nature ? Not only has it taken
j | no steps to collect information, but has, in the most prejudiced
111 manner, rejected a paper by one of its cleverest members,
111 containing nothing but properly attested physical facts. The
111 British Association for the Advancement of Science has
11! committed itself in like manner, and the flippant note about
II j Spiritualism written by Professor Stokes, at Edinburgh, is
! | now a matter of history. A solitary fact proves no general
i |! law, yet Mr. Lockyer is no exception to that rule which we
11 have just stated, about the greater absence of bigotry among
II •; literary than scientific men, for in his journal, Nature, he has
! | i never published any abuse of the phenomena of Spiritual-
! 11 ism. In St. Petersburg, after the men of science made their
|) I recent fiasco in relation to psychological phenomena, the
! Russian press gave them no support, and let the public
; | i know that their hastily formed decision was untrustworthy.
! 11 In London, the chief daily newspapers have, of late, all
; |! given fair play to Spiritualism, and in the country there are
III not a few which publish accurate reports about the mani-
II i festations witnessed at seances.
Our advice then, and it is not by any means dogmatically
III given, is to let English men of science alone; to let them
! remain a standing example before the world, of men steeped
111 in a kind of priestly bigotry founded upon physics. In the
j I mean time let energy be devoted to the dissemination of in-
jj formation among their superiors; that is to say, among
i 11 literary men, and in that highly-cultured section of society
! | in which Spiritualism is now spreading so rapidly without
111 any special effort. The conversion of one daily newspaper
i | i editor is of more value to the movement than that of a
i |: dozen scientific men. The latter should be left to them-
111 selves till they ask in a respectful manner for facilities for
I (I gaining information, and until they apologise to some extent
II i for their misconduct in the past. Whatever is done, it would
11 i be the greatest mistake to recognise them as authorities, or
| j to let them hold the idea that they are sitting in judgment;
: 11 they should be asked to seances only as a matter of grace
i 11 and favour, they being fifty times more ignorant of the
i >; subject than its students.
SPIRITUALISM IN MEXICO.
The three periodicals devoted to the Spiritualist movement
11 in Mexico are before us, and illustrate the progress of the
11 science in a country attacked by domestic revolutions, and
|! in which lawful association for any political, religious, or
11 social purpose is almost impossible.
The leading paper is that of the central society in Mexico,
11 and is termed Ilustracion Espirita; this journal, by the
j | convenience of its octavo form, suitable for binding, and the
|! quality of its contents, certainly deserves favourable notice
| in England. The articles in this magazine are thoroughly
j classified, a section being devoted to editorial articles, and
' others to spirit communications, physical phenomena, the
Aug. 4, 1876.
2 THE SPIRITUALIST.
metaphysical relations of the subject, mesmerism, general
literary criticism, an analysis of contemporary literature,
and miscellanea. It is clear that only in a paper of this
small size can such an arrangement be made. The quality
of the articles is of a high literary character, and the prin¬
ciples advocated are those of the reincarnationists. We
have not been able to perceive regular reports of the pro¬
ceedings of the Mexican society, and the papers read before
it probably are published as separate articles.
The Ley de Amor (Law of Love), of Merida (Yucatan), is a
small sheet of eight pages, which is chiefly devoted to the
illustration of the metaphysical bearings of the doctrine of
reincarnation. It is couched in extremely refined and
moderate philosophical language, and will doubtless advance
the moral objects of the movement.
The Pensamiento, of Merida, is a weekly paper of large
size, containing general spiritual news, and being apparently
of the same nature as the Religio-Philosophical Journal of
Chicago. We wish we could say that the Pensamiento had
avoided the theological rock on which so many Spiritualists
have split; and we must deprecate a style of writing which
has for effect the seeds of political and religious discord in
any nation. The influence of the masonic element is very
apparent in the present newspaper, and much which appears
in it has no reference whatever to the subject of Spiritualism.
It is difficult, however, for us in England perfectly to appre¬
ciate the excited atmosphere which must prevail around the
Spiritualists of Yucatan. We will merely remark that the
literary arrangements of the Pensamiento are excellent, and
that its readers are placed thoroughly on a level with the pro¬
gress of the science in all parts of the world. It is highly to
the credit of a comparatively small town like Merida, that
two periodicals on Spiritualism should exist, and should have
a fair circulation amongst the intelligent classes.
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
A few weeks since I threw out the suggestion that it
would be well to perfect certain experiments in the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism which might be produced in full
daylight, and, with certain limitations, under any fair con¬
ditions. I did not know then, nor did I at all expect that
I should so soon see my desideratum an accomplished fact.
It seems to me that Dr. Slade has done precisely what I
wanted. In his presence phenomena occur with a regularity
and precision, with an absence of regard for ii conditions,”
and with a facility for observation which satisfy my desires
entirely. It is impossible to conceive circumstances more
favourable to minute investigation than those under which
I witnessed the phenomena which occur in his presence with
such startling rapidity.
I will not take up your space with needless details of
phenomena already recorded. Suffice it to say that a seance
of exceptional excellence developed every phenomenon that
you have recorded, with equal rapidity and precision. There
was no hesitation: no tentative experiments. All was short,
sharp, and decisive. The invisible operators knew exactly
what they were going to do, and did it with promptitude
and precision.
A mid-day sun, hot enough to roast one, and fierce enough
to search out every cranny, was pouring into the room; the
table was uncovered; the medium sat with the whole of his
body in my full view ; there was no human being present save
myself and him. What conditions could be better ? The
raps were instantaneous and loud, as if made by the clenched
fist of a powerful man. The slate-writing occurred under
any suggested condition. It came on a slate held by Dr.
Slade and myself: on one held by myself alone in the
corner of the table furthest from the medium; on a slate
which I had myself brought with me, and which I held
myself; and finally, on a closed double slate lying on the
table. This latter writing occupied some time in produc¬
tion, and the grating noise of the pencil in forming each
word was distinctly audible. A chair opposite to me was
raised some eighteen inches from the floor; my slate was
taken out of my hand, and produced at the opposite side of
the table, where neither Dr. Slade nor I could reach it; the
accordion played all round and about me while the doctor
held it by the lower part j and finally, on a touch from his
Hj hand upon the back of my chair, I was levitated, chair and
| 1 all, some inches.
! ! I have seen all these phenomena and many others several
i|i times before, but I never saw them occur rapidly and con-
m secutively in broad daylight. The whole seance did not ex-
1 tend over more than half an hour, and no cessation of the
I phenomena occurred from first to last,
m I cordially agree with Mr. 0. 0. Massey that advantage
|M should be taken of such an opportunity to bring the facts
m before prominent men of science, and leaders of opinion
111 generally. An honest man who saw what I saw last Thurs-
! | day must admit the existence of a force hitherto unrecog-
1 nised by science. I see no way out of it. Long experiment,
| dubious conditions, suspicion of fraud, possibility of con-
> federacy—all this is eliminated, and none who has not tried
| | it can estimate the relief one feels in being able to dismiss
( all care for this, and to devote attention exclusively to what
| | is going on.
I have induced at least one eminent man of science to go
I | and see for himself that the opinions of his life touching
| | these phenomena are worthless. I do not know yet what he
I j will say when he sees what I do not doubt that he will see;
| | but, whatever he may say, he will not be able to deny the
II facts. I will pursue that process until I have brought the
l | phenomena under the notice of such prominent persons as I
| | can reach. May I earnestly say that Mr. Massey’s sugges-
Rj tion of facilitating this by publishing a short and precise
l)| account of the facts should be acted on at once? It will
j|J save me and others much trouble, and is, besides, more
| | readable and precise than a letter can be; and may I say,
| | too, that invitations should be sent to prominent men in the
| | Royal Society, and to leaders of public thought generally,
j I inviting them to see what Dr. Slade can show them?
I have fought as strongly as man can against going, cap
| | in hand, to the back door of Burlington House, and praying
| | for recognition. If I change my note now, it is because I
|| feel able, with Dr. Slade, to knock boldly at the front doory
and challenge attention. The time has at last come when
the phenomena can be produced openly and at demand; and
| in challenging attention to them we shall at least make it
impossible for men of science to say again that they have
| never had a chance of seeing and verifying for themselves the
statements of which they hear so much.
Not the least part of my content is caused by the anticipa-
| | tion of the flutter in the dovecot that Dr. Slade will cause in
| I St. Petersburg. What will the wise men say when they see
| | that they have been in error ? No doubt they will honestly
| | confess it; or, at least, we will hope so. It is a day too late to
| | burke facts. M. A. Oxon.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO MR. B. COLEMAN.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.*'
Sir,—This list is now closed, and will not be published
| | again. The total subscribed up to date amounts to £568
| | 7s. 4d., to which a few small sums will probably have to be
!<! added. A meeting of the general committee will be called
I j in a few days to decide what shall be done with the balance
I | in hand.
If there be yet any persons who desire to contribute, they
| i are requested to do so at once to me as hon. sec., as the
I I treasurer, Mr. Calder, is going out of town. A. Joy.
| (| 69, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
is I 29th July, 1876.
| j | Superstition at Eccles.—Some good housewives still keep books of
11 j old family recipes, but few are disposed to try the remedies recom-
| j | mended therein. Faith in the popular medical traditions of the past
|} j still lingers here and there; and at Eccles a benevolent person lately
I undertook to cure a little boy of the whooping-cough, by employing the
I following process, the invention of which does credit to the ingenuity if
not to the wisdom of our forefathers:—She cut a small lock of hair
I from the crown of the boy’s head, and carefully inserted it into a piece
of veal procured for that purpose. The meat was given to a dog, which
| was expected to swallow it, and with it the whooping-cough, which
i, i ought then to leave the boy. The good woman’s husband, however, think-
|i | ing it “ nnneighbourly ” to give so disagreeable a complaint to an animal
I belonging to a friend, gave it to a stray dog. It has thus become diffi¬
cult to ascertain whether the recipient of the veal has duly got the
whooping-cough, a fact which might in some measure redeem the expe¬
dient from the discredit into which it has fallen from the fact that,
1 though a fortnight has elapsed since it was adopted, the little patient’s
1 condition remains unaltered.—The Echo.
Am 4, 1876,
3
TtfE SPIRITUALIST.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEETING.
The twelfth half-yearly general meeting of the members of this
Association took place on Thursday evening last week, at their rooms in
Navarino-road, Dalston, Mr. John Mo L-Glassford, F.C.S., in the
chair. The other members present were Mr. John Rouse, Mrs.
Amelia Comer, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. W. R. Monteath, Mr. J.
Francis Gaudin, Mr. Richard Pearce, Mr. Arthur Vaughan, the Misses
Caroline and Nina Comer, Mr. M. Pardo, Mr. Henry Cook, Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Miss
Emily Thomson, and Mr. Thos. Blyton.
The notice convening the meeting having been read, the minutes of
the last half-yearly general meeting, dated 27th January, 1876, were
read and confirmed.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL.
The Chairman then read the following report of the Council for the
half-year ended SOth June last:—
The Council, in submitting the customary report of the financial
condition and progress of the Association during the past half-year,
consider that, on comparison with the previous period, the members
have reason to congratulate themselves upon the continued prosperity
of the Association.
The accounts have been carefully audited by Messrs. John Rouse
and Charles Lee, who have appended their certificate to the statement
of accounts attached to the report.
The total net receipts during the half-year ended 30th June last were
£10 12s., as against £13 14s. 6d. during the previous period; while the
expenditure, inclusive of the balance of 16s. 6d. brought forward,
amounts to £19 Os. 6d., as against £14 11s. The increased receipts
are mainly due to donations, and also to an increase of £1 14s. from
ordinary subscriptions paid in during the half-year. The increased
expenditure is attributable to the fact that in the accounts for the half-
year ended 31st December, 1875, were included net receipts amounting
to £6 12s., in respect of the conversazione and ball held under the
auspices of the Association in January last, which amount, if dealt with
in the accounts for the past half-year, would have reduced the expendi¬
ture, under the head of “ Lectures, Special Seances, &c.” from £6 11s. 7d.
to 19s. 7d. There were no outstanding liabilities on SOth June last.
The “ Stock Account ” of the Association, after the usual half-yearly
deduction of 5 per cent, for depreciation in value, shows a balance of
£30 10s., as against £20 17s 8d., on the 31st December, 1875, being an
increased value of £9 12s. ^d.
The following elections have taken place during the past half-year,
viz.:—Messrs. J. N. T. Martheze, Martin R. Smith, and Mrs. Catherine
Berry, as life members; Miss Anna Blackwell, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Everitt, as honorary members; Mr. Lucas de Caux, Miss Margaret
Marsden Cocker, Mr. Henry Sayer, Mr. John Me L-Glassford, F.C.S.,
Mr. Arthur Vaughan, and Mr. M. Pardoe, as ordinary members.
In consequence of Mr. A. Ferguson Black leaving England, that
gentleman has resigned his membership. The membership of Mr.
Alfred Lee has been cancelled at Mr. Lee’s request.
The total number of members upon the register on SOth June last
was 69, as compared with 59 at the close of the previous half-year,
being an increase of 10. The classification of the number of members
is—8 life members, 30 honorary do., 31 ordinary do.; total 69.
Pursuant to the resolution adopted at the last general meeting, an
application was made to enter into alliance with the “ British National
Association of Spiritualists,” which, having been unanimously accepted
by that organisation, was ratified by your Council on the 9th March
last. The appointment of a representative, to be ex-officio a member of
Council of the National Association, resulted in the election of Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen. The question of reciprocation of interchange of
members’ privileges having been raised, it has been resolved: “ That
the members of societies in alliance with the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists be admitted, on presentation of their cards of mem¬
bership to the same privileges as regards meetings and seances, as ordi¬
nary members of the National Association.” This friendly interchange
of privileges will thus offer increased facilities to the members in their
investigations.
The subject of test conditions at seances has been discussed by the
Council, and the following resolution adopted—viz., “ That at all dark
or cabinet seances of the Association such conditions be observed as, in
the opinion of the members assembled thereat, shall be deemed proper
and sufficient to guarantee the genuineness of any manifestations which
may be obtained; and, that only those siances be recorded at which
such conditions are enforced.”
The following special arrangements have been carried out during the
past half-year, viz
“ 5th January.—As intimated in the last half-yearly report of the
Council, a New Year’s gathering, in the form of a conversazione and
ball, was held at the Cavendish Rooms on this date, when Mr. Algernon
Joy, hon. member, M. Inst. C.E., presided during the early portion of
the evening, as a substitute for the President, who was prevented
through illness in his family from being present. Through the in¬
strumentality of many friends, the programme of the ' conversazione ’
proved a very attractive one, and gave much satisfaction and pleasure.
The ‘ ball ’ was undoubtedly the greatest attraction, being very numer¬
ously attended, and was kept up with great spirit until early the follow¬
ing morning. The expenses were, however, exceptionally heavy; but,
owing to the very liberal aid of several friends, only a small deficit was
incurred by the general funds of the Association. The Council feel that
the best thanks of the Association are due to those friends, especially to
certain members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, who
(assisted in various ways in making the gathering so eminently successful.
| Reports of the proceedings appeared in The Spiritualist and local press,
“ll 1th January.—A very comprehensive paper on ‘ OccultPsychological
Phenomena occurring outside what is known as Spiritualism,’ was read
by the author, Dr. George Sexton, hon. member, which was published
in the Spiritual Magazine of February last.
| “ 24th February.—* Our Duties as Spiritualists to Opponents, In-
| quirers, and Ourselves,’ formed the subject of an interesting and sug-
i gestive paper by the Rev. F. R. Young, hon. member, which paper was
! also published in the Spiritual Magazine of March last.
“ 30th March.—On this date the proceedings comprised ‘ A Narration
of Experiences of Members and other Investigators,’ at which the
attendance was numerous. Papers by Mrs. Catherine Woodforde, hon.
member, and Mr. John Rouse were read, when some very interesting
i as well as instructive facts were elicited. The proceedings were fully
| reported in The Spiritualist newspaper of 7 th April.
“ 2] st April.—A special subscription seance was held on this date
with Mr. Charles E. Williams, but only a few slight manifestations
could be obtained. This apparently shows that the manifestations are
| not due to the desire of the sitters, as all those who were present on the
occasion were anxious to observe some good manifestations.
| “27th April.—Mr. Thomas Blyton contributed a short paper on
‘ Test Seance Conditions,’ with a view to ascertain the opinion of mem¬
bers as to the most effectual and desirable means for securing reliable
manifestations. The paper, with the discussion that ensued thereon,
will be found in The Spiritualist newspaper of 5 th May.
“ 25th May.—A special seance with Mr. J. J. Morse, when an insp:-
rational trance address upon the * Experiences of Spirits in the Spirit
World,’ gave general satisfaction to those present on the occasion.
“29th June.—Further ‘Narration of Experiences’ constituted th®
programme for this date, when information of a novel character was
|j i given. A report of the meeting is to be found in The Spiritualist of 7 th
Iijj July.
“ The attendances at the various meetings have much improved during
the past half-year, and greater interest in all the proceedings has been
manifested on the part of the general body of the members, to which the
continued prosperity of the Association is undoubtedly due.
“ Several interesting features have been observed at some of the ordi¬
nary weekly siances, but the general results have not been of such a
nature as to call for special notice. The Council would most strongly
urge upon the members the desirability of forming private family circles
in their own homes, where the best conditions are most frequently
afforded for the proper development of spiritual manifestations. The
Council would further invite reports of any phenomena which any
jjl member may deem worthy of bringing before the notice of the Associa-
11 i tion, in furtherance of the work of collecting well-authenticated facts
affecting Spiritualism.
“ The library has been enriched during the past six months by many
jjl very valuable presentations of bound volumes, periodicals, and pam-
jjl phlets, from the following donors, viz:—Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mrs. M.
j ; Theresa Wood, Mr. John Rouse, the Countess of Caithness, Miss Anna
I j i Blackwell, Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, Mr. William H. Harrison, Dr.
• ji George Sexton, Mr. George Harris, M. A., LL.D., Mrs. Catherine Berry,
Mr. M. Pardo, Mr. John Nevil Maskelyne, Mr. F. Wayland-Smith, the
I British National Association of Spiritualists, Prof. R. B. D. Wells, and
Baron C. Dirckinck-Holrafeld.
“ The Council regret to report that since the turn of the past half-year
one of their fellow members, Mr. W. E. Bassett, a most conscientious
and indefatigable worker in the cause of Spiritualism, has been called
away to the higher life after a short illness. The Council feel confident
j: that in desiring the honorary secretary to convey to Mrs. Bassett, on
I ; behalf of the members of the Association, the warmest expressions of
| j i sympathy and condolence with her at the affliction she has sustained,
I j they have but anticipated the true feelings of her fellow members.
“ The Council recommend to the members the advisability of adding a
I j i Vice-President to the list of officers of the Association in future, for
! which purpose a motion will be submitted for discussion.
“ All the officers for the past half-year retire from office, and the mem-
: j i bers are now called upon to elect the executive body for the ensuing
Hi half-year. ' “ H. D. Jencken, President.”
Mr. R. Pearce in moving that the report of the Council and statement
; j i of accounts be approved and adopted, inquired what proportion of the
Hi total number of members, and of those elected during the past half-
1)1 year, resided in Dalston and its vicinity.
The Secretary, in answer, stated that he could not reply off-handed to
|j| the first part of Mr. Pearce’s inquiry without reference to the books,
| | but that the majority of the ordinary members elected during the past
| j I half-year resided in or about the neighbourhood of Dalston.
I Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen seconded the adoption of the report and
j accounts.
Mr. Henry Cook having been informed of the particulars of the small
item in the accounts for advertising, thought that in future a fair price
should be paid, in order that the Association should not be unduly in¬
debted for such favours. The present advertisement in The Spiritualist
newspaper he considered far too lengthy, and would recommend that the
same be considerably reduced, so as not to occupy so much valuable
(space.
The motion for the approval and adoption of the report and statement
of accounts was then put to the meeting and carried unanimously.
The meeting proceeded to elect officers for the current half-year, when
the following were duly elected, viz.Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., &c.,
President; Mr. Thos. Blyton, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Alfred E.
Lovell, Mr. John Rouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, Mr. Thos. Wilks, and Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Council; with
j Mr. Thos. Blyton, hon. secretary and treasurer.
It was moved by Mr. Thos. Blyton, seconded by Mr. J. Tozeland,
4
THE SPIRITUALIST. Aug. 4, 1876.
and resolved, “ That Rule III. be amended so as to include a vice-pre- j/j
sident among the officers of the Association.” I(!
On the motion of Mr. John Rouse, seconded by Mr. Arthur Vaughan, j(j
Mrs. Corner was elected vice-president.
Mr. R. Pearce moved, and Mr. Thos. Blyton seconded, “That the iji
society be called the Dalston Society of Spiritualists.”
Mr. Pearce urged that the action of the members in the past shewed j j j
that a large proportion of their number were Spiritualists, and that as |(j
a society of Spiritualists they could do more good by amending the title | (j
of the Association as proposed. I j j
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen differed with Mr. Pearce, and briefly spoke i j j
of the favourable influence of the Association in the past upon those | \ |
members who entered purely as inquirers; he moved, as an amendment, \)\
‘ * That the title of the Association remain unaltered.”
Mr. John Rouse seconded the amendment. | (j
The Chairman endorsed Mr. Tredwen’s remarks, but urged full dis- ||i
cu?sion of so important a question.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell agreed that it would be a disadvantage to change ! j j
the title, as many individuals would far prefer to join an association of j H
inquirers like their own than another of a different character.
Mr. Tozeland remarked that he had been an inquirer for fifteen years, I j!
and felt that he was still but an inquirer.
The amendment, having been put to the meeting, was carried by a j (!
large majority. ijl
Two other motions by Mr. Pearce were then withdrawn by him.
On the motion of Mr. Thos. Blyton, seconded by Mr. R. Pearce, it j|j
was resolved, “That the words ‘which must contain a reference to a j(|
member of the Association ’ between brackets in Rule V. be struck out.” j/j
A vote of thanks to the officers of the Association, for their services ||j
during the past half-year, was proposed by Mr. R. Pearce, seconded by j(|
Mr. M. Pardo, carried unanimously, and acknowledged on behalf of the iji
officers by Mr. John Rouse.
Mr. Henry Cook proposed a vote of thanks to the chairman; this i j j
was seconded by Mr. Arthur Vaughan, and carried with acclamation.
The Chairman returned thanks, and the proceedings closed.
THE ORGANISATION OF AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
The spiritual movement in America is weak, in proportion to its |j|
extent, from want of organisation, and an attempt to effect an improve- j (|
ment in this respect is now being made. The most effective organisa- j/i
tions can only be established by that section of society which is already j j
orderly; but it will be seen that the local American associations con- in
taining many persons averse to system and to united action have been ||j
asked to take the initial steps by the Philadelphia convention. The (j
progress of the experiment will be watched in this country with much j j
interest, for at present our brethren in America resemble a rope of jjj
sand ; there is a want of cohesion among them, and they are compara- j(
tively powerless both for offence and defence. I f
The following report is abridged from TAc Banner of Light’oi j)
July 15th :—
An influential meeting of Spiritualists was held on July 5th, at i(
Circle Hall, Vine-street, Philadelphia. Among the representative men j |
present were Mr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. Samuel Watson, of Memphis ; i(
Dr. Bruce, of Newburyport; Dr. H. T. Child, and Mr. Kase, of (
Philadelphia; Dr. Charles Main, of Boston; and Mr. R. Linton, from j)
London, England.
After Dr. Bruce had read the notice convening the meeting, Mr. S. j (
Watson was voted to the chair, Dr. Bruce to the secretaryship, Dr. :)
Child to the assistant-secretaryship, and Mr. Kase was appointed It
treasurer of the convention.
The main purpose of the meeting was introduced in a vigorous |?
speech by Dr. Bruce, the essence of which is summed up in the words i i
of the resolution put to the meeting, viz. :—
“That the time has come for the organisation of Spiritualism in 1/
America.”
Dr. Child, Mr. Linton, Mr. Peebles, Mr. Kase, and Mr. Spear, also j(
spoke on the resolution, each from his own standpoint.
Mr. Linton, of England, warmly advocated the establishment of all H
organisations on the broadest basis consistent with the highest truth.
He thought that without depreciating phenomenal Spiritualism, which |)
had yet many momentous phases to work out, Spiritualism as a religion i(
for mankind should be brought more to the front. It was unquestion-
ably the science of sciences and the philosophy of philosophies, but it j?
was chiefly as a religion, or rather its triune combination of science, K
philosophy, and religion, that would renovate humanity. It might be ||
that many of the evils abroad iu the land had arisen from the neglect :)
of the highest element in this trinity. If so, united work was essential j(
to realise the harmony. They should avoid sectarian pitfalls.
Mr. Peebles entered with much emphasis upon the question of i)
organisation per se, showing how essential it was for the achievement i(
of human purposes. It had its foundation in the family circle, and its \i
widest expression in the governments of the world ; its power for evil /
or for good was seen in all the ecclesiastical systems among mankind. !(
He narrated his experience of several local spiritual organisations ; j|
pointed out the facility with which even great spiritual undertakings
were accomplished under combined effort; and gave a kind of outline
of the scheme for local societies throughout the States, preparatory to
national organisation. The dissemination of spiritual truth was no ex- )
ception to the general law of these things ; and no man’s individuality i\
would be sacrificed by uniting with his Brother man in such a cause, !)
but rather strengthened thereby, for no creed would be proposed to |(
letter his intellect and reason. j
Mr. Kase and Mr. Spear spoke to a similar effect, and the resolution
was carried unanimously.
A committee was then appointed by resolution to “ draw up and
present to the conference a declaration of principles embodying the
grounds of organisation ; also to frame suggestions for a constitution
for local societies.”
This closed the morning meeting.
At three o’clock the conference was resumed to receive the report
of the committee. Its deliberations had culminated in a “ preamble, a
statement of aims, and a bxnef enunciation of principles.” These, with
the “ constitutionvfor societies,” after slight discussion, more on verbal
points than principles, were unanimously adopted. Vice-presidents
were elected for the different States.
Some difficulty was felt in the adoption of a name for the convention
that would indicate its aims. Although there was no dissension as to
the departure of modern Christianity from the universal teachings of
Jesus, there was in the meeting a strong leaning to the adoption of the
phrase “ Christian Spiritualists.” This was energetically opposed by
Mr. Linton as a limitation that would compromise the whole move¬
ment as misleading, and as an inadequate expression of modern
spiritual development, which, without depreciating the Jesus principle,
was an advance upon all the divine manifestations of the past. He
urged the omission of qualifying adjectives. The declaration was ex¬
plicit enough. This suggestion was accepted, and the meeting was
named “ The National Convention of Spiritualists.”
THE DEVELOPMENT OF TEST MANIFESTATIONS.
^ As the pressure of public opinion is brought to bear upon mediums,
and the spirits who control them, a decided improvement in the quality
and certainty of the manifestations is the result, whereas little or no
progress is made if the mediums are allowed to have their own way.
In the latter case the same manifestations will be given from one year’s
end to another, with no attempt at improvement or advance, so long as
the medium receives that share of popularity or material benefit which
is desired. While this is not exactly the principle which Mr. Hardy
intended to help to prove in the following article of his, quoted from The
Banner of Light, we nevertheless sympathise, as he does, with the
mediums, in the matter of the annoyances to which they are subjected
by those disbelievers, who, judging the rest of mankind by themselves,
look upon their neighbours as rogues or thieves, knowing how they them¬
selves would act under like conditions: —
It is well-known by those who have experimented to any extent in
the phenomena of physical manifestations, especially materialisations,
that the condition of darkness, partial or total, is absolutely necessary
in order to obtain the strongest and best results; and that in about the
same ratio that this condition is departed from, will the results be weak
and unsatisfactory. It will not only take longer time to obtain a certain
result, but the manifestation will be less perfect, less substantial. How¬
ever unfortunate or unpleasant this fact may appear to the honest
investigator, still it is a stubborn fact; consequently, while sitters at
these seances are persistently calling for a greater amount of light, the
influences through whom we are indebted for any and all such manifes¬
tations, demand the condition of darkness. Mediums of the develop¬
ment of “ Maud Lord,” and many others, can get scarcely anything
except in total darkness. Others, while admitting subdued light in the
stance room, find it absolutely necessary to isolate themselves from the
sitters, either by cabinets or screens, especially when the manifestations
are the production of “ flowers,” “ moulds,” or materialisations; and to
the persistent demand of the attendants of sSances for different condi¬
tions in the way of light, these influences from the other side yield very
reluctantly, if at all, and when they do so, unless the medium is very
strong as a medium, and in good health, and the sitters quite har¬
monious, and in sympathy, the manifestations unavoidably will be quite
unsatisfactory.
“ Old Spiritualists” may talk or write very wisely of what the con¬
ditions ought to be, of what this or that medium ought to submit to
for the sake of the “dear cause,” or the “dear public,” and “can’t
see ” why this or that pet condition of theirs should affect the manifes¬
tations, or the medium. Yet if these carpers are not mediums them¬
selves, what do they know about it ? Nothing, absolutely nothing; and
when they assume the role of dictators to either the invisibles or
mediums—“ steadiers of the Ark of the Lord ”—they have sadly mis¬
conceived their vocation, and have got that lesson yet to learn.
It has now been about three years since Mrs. Hardy became aware
that the phenomena of materialisation could occur through her medium-
ship, and this was made known by accident, viz.: by being touched by
the invisibles while holding the slate under the table for writing. This,
on our making conditions suitable, was followed by fingers being thrust
up through an aperture in the table, then hands, wrists, and arms;
during this time Mrs. Hardy was often informed by the spirits that they
could materialise full forms through her, if she would make use of
“ screens ” or “ cabinet; ’’ but the medium had heard of the bitter ex¬
periences and persecutions of the “ Davenports,” the “ Eddys,” Mrs.
Andrews, and other cabinet mediums, and she shrank from the ordeal,
and kindly but firmly declined. “ If you materialise through me, you
must do so while I am in sight of the sitters. I had rather get one
finger while sitting with and in sight of the company, than a whole
form while isolated from them.” This, of course, was rather a snub to
the spirits, a sop thrown to the “ dear sceptical public,” and henceforth
cabinets, screens, and darkness, as far as the medium was concerned,
were abolished; but the invisibles, anxious to use this medium, com-
Aug. 4, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
o
promised the matter by having their workshop completely darkened
during the seance, and the seance-room darkened for five to ten minutes
at the commencement, and in this way stances were held for some
months, obtaining hands and arms only; they could not give forms
unless they had the whole body of the medium to work from. So much
was lost by catering to the demands of the wise ones. How much was
gained by either the medium or the “ dear cause ” we shall see.
The materialising of these hands, with the medium and her own j!
hands always in sight—hands of various sizes and colours, arms and i1
wrists often beautifully dressed with various kinds of material, such as i'
cloth, silk, and lace, pieces of which have often been cut therefrom, in j,
sight of all; hands on which rings have been put on and taken off by h
members of the circle scores of times ; hands which have taken bells i j
from the hands of the sitters, vigorously ringing them, often three at i <
once, then returning them to the giver; all this going on under j1
the above conditions, in the light—have been the order of these stances j
for three years, and have been witnessed by hundreds. Again recurs i
the important question; “ What has either the cause or tins medium i
gained by encroaching on the conditions of the spirits, and yielding to j 5
those asked for by sceptics ? ” Why, this much: the medium to-day is i j
belied and insulted by persons who are endeavouring to make the public j (
believe that the very manifestations described above are performed j)
by the medium’s “ toes!” And these persons call themselves old ! (
Spiritualists 1
As these stances continued, our critics began to object to the short i)
interval of darkness at the very commencement. “ It looked suspi- j
cious.” “ Why have the room darkened for a moment ? ” So this i j
point was yielded, and for nearly two years the room has not been i
darkened at the seances for a moment, but every object therein, in- ! j
eluding the medium, could be distinctly seen. Did this satisfy ? No. j j
Driven from every other point, came the “ toe ” theory, as above, i ]
Finally, the medium, still endeavouring to satisfy all, if possible, pre- j (
pared a pillow-slip, and at the beginning of the stance would have some i /
ladies, selected by the audience, encase her feet and limbs tightly in (
this, while every other part of her body was in sight. Still the
hands would show themselves up through the table. Yet these honest |)
souls were unhappy. The medium stood before them no better than j j
those mediums who defied their scepticism, and sat in cabinets, or total j>
darkness.
Then came the “ mould ” development, this medium successfully ! (
obtaining the moulds of hands, feet, and faces, this phenomenon occur- ! j
ring in any house, any room, and in public halls, before large audiences
all over the country; obtaining hands pronounced perfect counterparts j j
of human hands in every outline and detail by the most competent
artists—hands of various shapes and sizes. And out of the hundred j)
thus obtained, scarcely any two resembling each other, none resembled
the hand of the medium. This point of itself is sufficient to annihilate i)
the theory of fraud.
The condition under which these moulds were obtained, always in i|
the light, seemed for a time to nonplus these sceptics; they could not |
see Aou? or where the fraud came in; but then, was it not possible for jjl
the medium, or some accomplice, to prepare the mould, secrete it about nj
the person, and then manage in some way to slip it under the table,
though the eyes of the whole audience were upon her ?
“ I have it,” says Prof. Denton; “ here is something that will settle i)|
the matter: we wUl obtain a pair of nice scales, and we will weigh the m
vessel containing the liquid when ready for the stance, then we will i(
re weigh it after the mould is obtained, and we will have this weighing ij
done by a committee appointed by the audience; then if it is found that i)
a sufficient weight is gone from the vessel, commensurate to the weight 1(1
of the mould, the thing is settled.” Well, the medium at once consented, i j
and this new test was adopted and carefully applied—not secretly, j|i
slyly, not by partisans of the medium—but, in every instance, by a i U
committee appointed by the audience, and attended to in sight of all, i > i
then and there. This test has been applied before large audiences in jjj
public halls, in Boston, Charlestown, Portland, Me., Baltimore, and |(;
Washington, and some ten times at parlour seances, and each time the i 51
committee have announced to the audience that the vessel had sustained i j |
a loss equivalent to the weight of the mould, the sittings lasting from jjj
fifteen minutes to half an hour, the weight of the moulds averaging about j
two-and-a-half ounces, “ Troy.”
The experiment was a success; still the doubters were unhappy.
Possibly the medium might in some way manage to abstract the hot i j j
liquid from the pail with her feet, and hide it somewhere! ”1 have it,”
says investigator; “ if she will only sit in a bag, in the light, and sue- j | j
ceed, it will be a crusher; the thing will be settled.”
The medium demurred, did not like the idea of facing an audience in i j
a bag, but finally consented—yielded again. The weighing test, as a
crucial, satisfactory test was found a success no longer. So a sack ij;
made of cloth netting was at once provided, in which the medium was j j;
enveloped, the mouth of which was tightly fastened round the neck, by
a committee appointed by the company, who at each seance examined iji
the sack both before and after the result. This same sack has been j j;
used at about twenty seances, including five at New York, and on every j
occasion examined as above, and pronounced whole and intact, not a i
single person having claimed that the seams had been tampered with, j
or the least opening found; and at these stances the medium could be j|i
distinctly seen by all present.
So this sack test, also, was eminently successful on every occasion iji
mentioned above, a mould having been obtained each time; and, because iji
successful, ceased to be satisfactory to these captious doubters, and |(;
they commenced to clamour for some greater test, something more jjj
crucial. True, they did not say, “ Come down from the cross,” or, jjj
“Make bread of these stones,” then we will believe; but they did jjj
demand that these moulds should be obtained within a box made of jjj
wire netting and wood, thoroughly bolted and locked with two locks; jj
and to this test, also, though contrary to the advice of her guides and ! '
her own impressions, drawing as it did fearfully from the nervous
forces, she reluctantly consented; and, after a number of failures and
some unimportant results, finally met with a most unquestionable and
triumphant success, by obtaining, at several stances, the moulds of
whole and complete hands. See report in full of the Epes Sargent
committee, published in the Banner of Light, May 27th, 1876.
This last severe test we consider and receive as a most triumphant
vindication of the medium, in the matter of obtaining moulds, from the
slanderous attacks of her unscrupulous enemies, thanks to the clear
ones on the other side, and thanks to her staunch friends in the form
who have so nobly stood by her through this recent bitter persecution.
Such is a brief outline of the experience of one medium in attempting
to satisfy sceptics, by yielding to conditions imposed by them. If
those mediums now springing up all around us, both in this country
and in Europe, see anything pleasant in this picture: if they wish to
be slandered, insulted, and maligned; if they are ready to sacrifice
health, and put in jeopardy their mediumship—then let them try this
same experiment.
The Spiritual Scientist (Boston) has begun to call attention to the
subject mooted in these pages by. Prince Wittgenstein, of abnormal
spectres of animals.
The president of the Madrid Society of Spiritualists, Senor Rebelled,
will be in London in a few days, and will doubtless receive a hearty
welcome at the hands of English Spiritualists. He is charged with
letters of introduction to the National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Morse’s Experiences.—Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known trance
medium, desires to issue by subscription a work entitled, Leaves from
My Life. The proposed book will contain an extended and improved
autobiographical sketch of his early life, his career as a medium, a
rtsume of his experiences in the United States during his recent visit to
them ; and it will be accompanied by a photograph of the author, done
by the permanent process (the Woodbury patent); also a photograph of
the likeness of his chief controlling spirit, “ Tien-Sien-Tie,” taken
from a drawing executed by Wella Anderson, the spirit-artist, of New
York. A full description of this picture will be given. In addition
there will also be printed in the same volume a selection of the best
trance-addresses delivered through Mr. Morse’s mediumship, thus
investing them with that permanency which they deserve. Orders can
be sent to Mr. J. J. Morse, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E., from whom further particulars may be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Spiritualism in the Newcastle District.—The following circular
has just been issued :—“ The North of England Spiritualists' Central
Committee. Guarantee Fund. Amounts subscribed—Mr. J. Mould,
£5; Mr. W. Hunter, £5 ; Mr. Kay, £2 10s.; Mr. W. C. Robson, £5;
Mr. H. A. Kersey, £5; Mr. J. J. Morse, 10s.; A Friend, 5s.—New-
castle-on-Tyne, July, 1876. Sir,—On behalf of the North of England
Spiritualists’ Central Committee, I beg to call your attention to the
following resolution, passed by the executive of the above body, at a
meeting held in Newcastle-on-Tyne, on the 5th July, 1876:—‘ That in
order to assist this committee in its efforts to promote the progress of
Spiritualism, by the holding of meetings in the various towns included
in the district represented by the General Committee, elected at the late
Conference in Newcastle-on-Tyne, a guarantee fund of not less than
£100 be formed.’ I desire, most respectfully and earnestly, to call your
attention to the above, and to solicit your aid and co-operation, so that
the committee may be enabled to prosecute their labours with vigour
and success, for the promulgation of spirit communion. The guarantors
will not be called upon at less than three months’ intervals. J. J.
Morse, Hon. Sec., Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.”
An Extraordinary Story.—The following is from A Study of Hate-
thome, by George Parsons Lathrop, (Boston: Osgood and Co.; London :
Trubner):—“ A pedler, named Dominicus Jordan, was to-day in Uncle
Richard’s store, telling a ghost story. I listened intently, but tried not
to seem interested. The story was of a house, the owner of which was
suddenly killed. Since his death, the west garret window cannot be
kept closed; though the shutters be hasped and nailed at night, they are
invariably found open next morning, and no one can tell when or how
the nails were drawn. There is also on the farm an apple-tree, the fruit
of which the owner was particularly fond of, but since his death no one has
been able to get one of the apples. The tree hangs full nearly every
year, but whenever any individual tries to get one, stones come in all
directions, as if from some secret battery or hidden catapult, and more
than once have those making the attempts been struck. What is more
strange, the tree stands in an open field, there being no shelter near
from which tricks can be played without exposure. Jordan says that it
seems odd to strangers to see that tree loaded with apples when the
snow is four feet deep; and what is a mystery there are no apples in
the spring, no one ever sees the wind blow one off, none are seen on the
snow, nor even the vestige of one on the grass under the tree; and that
cluldren may play on the grass, under and around it, while it is in
blossom, and until the fruit is large enough to tempt them, with perfect
safety; but the moment one of the apples is sought for, the air is full of
flying stones. He further says that late one starlight night, he was
passing the house, and looking up, saw the phantom walk out of the
garret window with cane in hand, making all the motions as if walking
on terra jftrma, although what appeared to be his feet were at least six
yards from the ground; and so he went on walking away on nothing,
and when nearly out of sight, there was a great flash, and an explosion
as of twenty field-pieces, then—nothing. This story was told with
seeming earnestness, and listened to as though it was believed. How
strange it is that almost all persons, old and young, are fond of hearing
about the supernatural, though it produces nervousness and fear! I
should not be willing to sleep in that garret, though I do not believe a
word of the story.”
e
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 4, 1876.
A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
BT GEORGE WYLD, M.D. 11
This morning I had a seance with Dr. Slade. I found jj
him to be a gentlemanly man, simple, unostentatious, and \\
sincere. We had the usual phenomena. A chair leapt into Ij
the air, and the table—our four hands being in the centre— I
rose about six inches, while my foot rested on Dr. Slade’s j
feet. The slate was held by Dr. Slade below the table, but |j
visibly close to the table, so that all manipulation with the j
pencil was impossible, and a message in the Christian names i
of my father and mother was written. Again, the slate was j
held on the top of my head by one hand of Dr. Slade, while j
I held his other hand, and a second message came, addressed j
to my two brothers in Scotland, both of whom were correctly jj
named. I myself then held the slate below the table, and jj
had a written message ; and, lastly, I held the slate on the j
top of the table with the little bit of pencil under it, and :
received a fourth message.
Dr. Slade then held with one hand an accordion hanging j
in the air, and before my eyes, the instrument rose and fell, j
playing correctly u The Last Rose of Summer.”
In my twenty-two years’ experience in Spiritualism I jj
have never witnessed any phenomena so perfectly and trans- jj
parently beyond all possible suspicion, and I cannot help j
feeling that any man of common sense or common honesty j
witnessing the experiments could not help being convinced j
of the truthfulness of the wonderful phenomena occurring !
under Dr. Slade’s mediumship.
12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, 31st July. j)
SPIRITUALISM IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE.
NO. I. I(
I:
B* EMILY KISLINGBURT.
La Trbsorerie, Wimille, France, July, 31 st. j |
My short stay in this country has not yet furnished many j j
events worth recording, but as this house may some day I j
become historical as the place where the Kardec books were j j
translated, a slight description of it may not be uninterest- j I
ing to your readers.
To begin at the beginning of my journey: We had a very j I
rough passage last Saturday across the Channel. The waves j j
washed over the steamer, so that those who remained on j j
deck and who were not provided with tarpaulins, were j j
literally wet to the skin. I avoided the cabin as long as jj
possible, until I was at last obliged to struggle down the j j
hatchway ; but when I saw the cabin floor all covered with j j
sick ladies, I felt strong-minded and remained resolutely j i
standing in the doorway. At last the steward, seeing me j j
about to fail, benevolently conjured a camp stool under me, 11
to which I remained attached for the rest of the passage.
Arrived at Boulogne, the next thing to be endured was J
the searching of luggage at the Custom-house. I had the j !
good fortune, however, to fall into the hands of a sensible I j
douanier, to whose question as to whether I had anything to j j
declarer I gave so emphatic a negative, that he at once put j j
a chalk mark on my portmanteau, to show that it had ! j
“passed.” While awaiting this ceremony I had time to i j
observe the manners and customs of the Boulonnais. The j j
hall of the Custom-house was filled with groups of women, ! j
old and young, in short striped petticoats, and stiff white 1 j
muslin caps, with a broad frill standing up all round like an j j
auriole. As fast as the boxes were examined, they were j j
carried out by two or three of these women, and placed on j j
trucks, which they then wheeled off to the various hotels and j j
lodgings, laughing and chatting merrily. The light-hearted- j j
ness of the French is the first thing that always strikes a j j
stranger on landing in this country; their politeness, though j j
perhaps not always sincere, is certainly charming. The ! !
German poet Heine used to say he quite enjoyed being j j
jostled in the streets of Paris, for the sake of the exquisite j j
apology he was certain to receive afterwards.
My journey from Boulogne to Wimille was performed in I j
a covered cart, drawn by a donkey, and driven by a little old I j
woman with a coloured handkerchief tied over her head, and j j
who calls her vehicle Vequipage. We drove about four miles j I
through a hilly and varied country (dotted with farms) of jj
which this is the highest point. La Tresorerie is simply a llj
hamlet composed of about two farms, half-a-dozen cottages,
and Miss Blackwell’s little house, which faces the road, has a
little garden in front and at the side, and is covered with
vines and roses. There are two little sitting-rooms on the
ground floor, divided, French fashion, by curtains, a
kitchen and out-houses. Up a steep little staircase
there are four rooms, in one of which Miss Blackwell
does her writing and translating. The sea, which can be
seen from the upper rooms, is about a mile and a half dis¬
tant at Wimereux, where we intend to spend most of our
days. Wimereux is not much larger than la Tressorerie; but
it has a church, and about five houses on different parts of
the cliff, besides cottages. It was at this spot that the great
Napoleon planned his harbour from which to invade and con¬
quer England; and the column commemorative of the pre¬
paratory review of his troops stands on the summit of the
neighbouring hill.
To-day there is a heavy fall of rain, which is much wanted.
As I cannot go out, I intend to go in for Kardec, in the
original. In my next letter I hope I shall be able to tell
you of a visit to Mr. Atkinson, whom I expect to dazzle
with the splendour of my equipage and female charioteer.
Montenegrin Doubles.—It is a noticeable fact that wherever the
population is prone to crimes of violence, there exist superstitions cal¬
culated to increase the popular tendency to raise the death-rate by
artificial means. Among those of the Montenegrins, who are by no
means men of peace, is a strange belief in a dualism of birth. They
believe that at the birth of every man another man precisely like him is
bom, and that each individual of this pair is responsible for the sins of
the other. The working of this superstition would, indeed, be more
useful if Montenegro were burdened with a surplus population: for as
soon as a Montenegrin is informed that there exists anywhere a man
for whom he might be mistaken, he makes every effort to seek out his
alter ego, and when found kills him, on the ground that human nature
being frail, he is sure to commit sins, and that the sooner the supply is
thus cut off the better for the slayer, who might otherwise have to
answer for the crimes of a long life, and that not his own, but his
double’s. The whole line of thought is somewhat abstruse, but the
result—namely, killing somebody—is simple enough, and any preliminary
process tending to this end is accepted without much difficulty by the
fierce Montenegrins.—The Echo.
Mrs. Weldon’s Concert.—Mrs. Weldon has sent us an exact account
of the sums expended and received at her last concert, which took place
at St. James’ Hall, on the 19th July. The hall was crammed in every
part, except in the gallery, which had only six grown up occupants and
two boys. It may, therefore, be estimated that about two thousand five
hundred persons were present. The sums collected by Mrs. Weldon
and the children amounted to £32 3s. 9£d., composed as follows, £l,
eight half-sovereigns, .£3 17s. 6d. in half crowns, £4 2s. in two shilling
pieces, £9 18s. in shillings, £6 15s. 9d. in sixpences, 6s. in fourpenny
pieces, £1 12s. 9d. in threepenny pieces, 12s. 4d. in pennies, Is. 8d. in
halfpennies and farthings. An item of gain was the sale of the books of
words, £11 6s. 8d. Mrs. Weldon herself collected in the stalls, and took
most of the threepennies and halfpence. In the gallery each person
gave a shilling apiece. Mrs. Weldon had counted upon an average of
one shilling a head from each person present. £150 would have covered
the expenses of the concert, and almost recouped her for her loss on the
one of the 17th June. The expenses were for the concert of the 19th
July, as follows:—For the orchestra, £84 10s. 6d.; the hire of the hall,
£21; Mr. Austin’s accounts, £4 5s.; printer’s bill, £11 11s.; indirect
expenses, such as cabs, messengers, dress, &c., not under another £10.
Disbursement, therefore, £131 6s. 6d.; receipts, £43 10 5£d.; loss,
£87 16s. Ojd.
Flower Worshippers.—Dr. George Birdwood writes in the Athe-
neeum:—“ Very beautiful is the Persian love for flowers. In Bombay
I found the Parsees use the Victoria Gardens chiefly to walk in, (to eat
the air ’—‘ to take a constitutional,’ as we say. Their enjoyment of it
was heartily animal. The Hindu would stroll unsteadfastly through
it, attracted from flower to flower, not by its form or colour, but its
scent. He would pass from plant to plant, snatching at the flowers
and crushing them between his fingers, and taking stray sniffs at the
ends of his fingers as if he were taking snuff. His pleasure in the
flowers was utterly sensual. Presently, a true Persian, in flowing robe
of blue, and on his head his sheep-skin hat,
‘ Black, glossy, curl’d, the fleece of Kar-kul,’
would saunter in, and stand and meditate over every flower he saw, and
always as if half in vision. And when, at last, the vision was fulfilled,
and the ideal flower he was seeking found, he would spread his mat and
sit before it until the setting of the sun, and then pray before it, and
fold up his mat again and go home. And the next night, and night
after night, until that particular flower faded away, he would return to
it, and bring his friends in ever increasing troops to it, and sit, and
sing, and play the guitar or lute before it, and they would all together
pray there, and after prayer still sit before it, sipping sherbert, and
talking the most hilarious and shocking scandal, late into the moon¬
light; and so again and again every evening until the flower died.
Sometimes, by way of a grand finale, the whole company would sud¬
denly rise before the flower, and serenade it, together with an ode from
Hafiz, and depart.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
7
Aug. 4, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the hope that the day is approaching when the time of
the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists will
he less occupied with the discussion of personal matters than
has been the case during the past six months, and that before
long national questions only will come under its consi¬
deration, we desire to point out in what direction improve¬
ment in its present mode of action is most needed. A body
which deals with weighty national questions should never
act in a hurried manner, and should never take its own
members or the public by surprise, for which reason bills
are read and discussed in the House of Commons on three
separate occasions, before they become law. That such a
very careful course is necessary in connection with the
National Association of Spiritualists, cannot be for a moment
argued; still, it is essential that everybody should know
well in advance what measures are to be considered at its
Council meetings. To this end a resolution was once passed
that no new business should be brought before the Council
without one month’s notice thereof having been given. At
the time this regulation was framed Mr. Martin Smith spoke
of its great necessity, by pointing out how individuals might
be led away by an inflammatory speech, and induced to vote
in a manner which they would regret when the cool time
of after reflection came. Unfortunately, it was also re¬
solved that with the consent of three-f jurths of the Council
this month’s notice might be dispensed with, and in
practice it has of late been set aside upon the most flimsy
pretexts, consequently nobody now knows at the beginning
of a Council meeting, what business the very few working
members of that body may transact before they finish.
Thus absent members of the Council have now no notice of
coming business for the transaction of which they are in a
measure responsible, and the legislation in several instances
has not been of that wise nature which would have resulted
had time for consideration been allowed. The work of the
Council would be much better done if the rule requiring one
month’s notice could be made absolute unless a special re¬
solution is passed by the whole Council, and entered upon
the minutes, that the business to be considered is so urgent
that palpable injury would be inflicted upon the National
Association by its postponement. It would be well also if
the councillor who gives notice of a resolution were allowed
to make a speech, saying why he does so, so that present and
absent members may not be taken by surprise in the matter
of the main line of argument to be examined. The want of
dignity displayed by any influential public body which
suddenly discusses and legislates upon great national ques¬
tions without previous notice, is beneath criticism or comment
of any kind.
Another thing which is wanted very badly is that all the
votes at divisions should be recorded. What is the use of
having a representative body when the members at large
receive no information as to the way in which their repre¬
sentatives vote ? Recording all the votes will serve to make
those who transact the business more careful, and will tend
to prevent inconsistencies.
Miss Kislinobcry, secretary to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, left Folkestone for Boulogne last Saturday by the South-Eastern
Railway Company’s steamship Victoria.
Last Tuesday night a seance, through the mediumship of Miss
Showers, took place at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London. Mrs. Showers, Mrs. Baker,
Sir William Dunbar, Bart., and Mr. W. H. Harrison were also present.
Spiritualism in Montevideo.—The Spiritualist Society in Montevideo
publishes an excellent little monthly magazine of twelve pages, con¬
taining communications which have been received through trance
mediums, and is entitled the Revista Espiritista. We recognise in it
the names of authors, especially the Viscount de Torres-Solanot, which
are familiar to us in Spanish Spiritualism. Though this magazine does
not give any information as to the progress and numbers of the Monte¬
video Society, it is well worthy of perusal.
The Experimental Research Committee.—At a meeting, last Friday,
of the Experimental Research Committee of the National Association
of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russoll-street, London, W.C., the follow¬
ing resolution was adopted :—“ That with regard to objects to be ex¬
hibited, the function of this committee is merely to reject those articles
which, in their opinion, clearly indicate illusion, fallacy, or fraud, and
in certain other cases to state the nature of the articles or the con¬
ditions under which they were obtained.” The members present were
Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Dr. Carter Blake, Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr.
D- H. Wilson, Mr. R. Hannah, and Mr. J. W. Gray.
THE SENSATIONS OF A RISEN SPIRIT.
Mrs. C. If. Y. Tappan recently delivered a lecture in the
| trance state at Chicago, and the discourse, which professes to
I come from a departed physicist and chemist, is published in
The Banner of Lights of July 8th. Those who have “deeply
> studied spirit messages, agree for the most part that they are
i of a symbolical nature, as difficult for us to understand as it
)\ would be for a caterpillar to grasp the conditions of life and
)\ the sensations of a butterfly. The conditions of the spirit
II world seem to be different from those of this ; apparently,
>| language and ideas cannot be found to bring these conditions
| to the consciousness of mortal man. The following narrative
of experiences in the great thought-world beyond the grave,
I we therefore assume to be misty and symbolical to a large
| extent, yet founded upon spiritual facts :—
I felt a spiritual poverty. I mean to say that I seemed to
I exist in the atmosphere of intellect, of intelligence, of intel-
j lectual perception, but I missed the aura of spiritual power.
| I never could pray when I lived on earth. I had no religious
| experiences of my own ; indeed, I never knew that there was
i a spirit except what I received through my intellect demon-
j strated through the mediumship or spirituality of others. I
| never saw a spirit clairvoyantly; therefore my spiritual
| perceptions seemed to be vague. I was conscious of an
i obscurity of the light beyond, as if some portion of the
[j sphere in which I had entered were in an eclipse. I asked the
| spirit that seemed my attendant, whose name I did not
] know, but whose aura was very bright, to explain this.
He said to me, “ This is the spiritual atmosphere,
(| which, because you did not possess it, or it was
! not cultivated, leaves you in spiritual darkness, but, through
j the intellect, through ideality, through refinement of a some-
; what cultivated taste, you are admitted to a portion of the
jj sphere which your spirit will eventually inhabit.” I cannot
| tell you how brilliant the air seemed as we passed scintil-
! lant, and the atoms kindled. I perceived that it was not by
! any external lustre of sun or planet, but the luminousness
i of my attendant guide and myself. My luminance seemed
I reflected from him; I wore no brightness of my own, but
only a brightness borrowed from his presence. I said, u Why
j is this ? You are luminous, and I am like the moon, simply
I a reflected light.” He said, “ There can be no light unless
j there is spiritual power first, and as the power you possess is
1 only that of intellect you must shine with a borrowed light
! until the spiritual has birth.” Not that I was devoid of a
j spirit, but the spirit had not pervaded the attributes and
qualities of my mind. I had lived in the external senses.
I possessed the intellectual consciousness of a recognised
(1 proof of immortality, but had not seen it through my
spiritual faculties. I did not possess the intuition that
j would give me a knowledge of it; therefore my spiritual
| | windows were blind ; I was in an obscurity, and because of
|)| this I must shine by the light of my teacher and friend until
I I I could develope the spiritual quality. I felt as a babe or a
Hi dwarf then in the presence of a giant; even as one who is
I I blind in the presence of those who see clearly.
As we approached the sphere, which seemed to grow larger
i|| and larger, and finally became a world of itself, I discovered
degrees of brightness, and I said, “ What are these ?”
I j u These are the different grades or states of mind in the
| | same sphere. While as a whole they agree, there are still
I (I stages and degrees of thought among them, and the lumin-
i) ousness varies in proportion to their spiritual exaltation.”
j|j While the lowermost state seemed to be of a blue greyish
I | tint, I could see, stretching far into the distance, as though
iji the zenith were there, a shining flame like a sun. I could
| | distinguish no objects, but my attendant said that was the
j i centre round which radiated all these souls, and that these
II were as planets round a central sun of intelligence and
||| power. I then perceived that not the law of gravitation,
I! nor of the motion of the heavenly bodies in the solar system,
I nor of planets, governed these mysterious states or spheres,
but that the centre of gravitation was the spirit itself, and
I the great luminary beyond must be a group of brighter
| spirits and more divine minds who radiated their brightness
1 upon those around them, until by degrees they were merged
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 4, 1876.
in the shadows where I stood. I assure you that any know- |
ledge which I possessed while upon earth, and even the ]
approximate comprehension of the wonderful structure of j
the heavenly system and of the earth itself, sank into in¬
significance, and I could feel, almost before I was aware of I
it, that in some of these stages of thought, far above my
reach and comprehension, there must dwell the giant minds j
whom I had worshipped, the prophets of science whom I I
had adored, who, with loftier vision than myself, had at¬
tained the spiritual as they had the material heights of j|
science. I could then feel my guide pouring the radiance jj
of his mind upon me, and I knew that he was one who in 11
earthly life, as well as in spiritual existence, I had at a |J
a distance worshipped, because the minutest atom seemed |
revealed to him, and the worlds were alike known, and spoke |
a language. As he turned to me it was none other than I
Humboldt, the genius of the century, who gave the cosmos
of science, as Plato gave the cosmos of philosophy to the j (
world. And when he thus led me, I perceived that he also I Jj
slackened his pace, and (as though he would wait for me to K
follow) turned toward the heights that were above him. |(
But even he did not possess the rare brilliance of those j>
higher states or spheres. I could perceive a diminishing jj
light; he was great to me, but there were those beyond him U
that were saints and apostles in science; and I could even i j
imagine—though I did not see in palpable vision—Galileo jj
smiling down from a grander height, and the wonderful jj
mysteries of even the Platonic periods pictured in the air jj
above and around us. j j
I was promised by the singular process of thought which |
enveloped me that I should become aware of the mysteries jj
of science; but, even as an academic student or a collegian, jjj
with the introduction of new methods, is obliged to unlearn jjj
what he has learned before, even as science supersedes !jj
science, and that which one age invents and discovers tran- jjj
scends the thought of the previous age, so the various j j
mantles of thought and science in which I had seemed to jjj
clothe and adorn myself while upon earth must gradually j j
fall from me. I took them off one by one as I passed with ijj
my guide through these singular spheres. First I threw off j jj
the cloak of absolute physical clay. Then I threw off the jjj
mist that surrounded my intelligence’concerning matter, its jjj
positiveness, its impenetrability, its absolute existence. I ijj
discovered it to be relative. I then threw off any idea of jjj
time or space in connection with spiritual existence. For I I jj
assure you after my birth into spiritual life I could not tell, ijj
for an instant, whether my earthly existence had been a jjj
thousand years or one, or whether the experiences that I jjj
reviewed had all been centred in an hour or a million cen- jj!
turies. Such is the rapidity of thought and such its import, jjj
any intense experience in life becomes a day, and the dull jjj
routine of existence seems the monotony of a million years, j jj
But after a while the mind again rebounded, and as I could ijj
trace the days and years of my earthly life they seemed as jjj
nothing, seconds of time compared to the vistas that opened jjj
before me, the minds that I seemed to see peopling the sphere j jj
into which I was led, and the radiations of light that came j jj
out as if by common consent from one great centre, and from j j!
various smaller centres in this region of space. Then I said: jjj
“Is this the entire spirit world?” “Oh, no,” said my jj
guide, “this is only a congregation or sphere of kindred j j
scientific minds, who in divers directions are associated jjj
together for the development of spiritual thought; but,” jjj
pointing to different radiations like the radii of a single jjj
luminary when there are only tubes or channels leading jjj
from it, he said, “those are avenues that link us to other jjj
spheres, whither by attraction, purpose, wish, ministration, jjl
or desire we may be led, and these spheres again lead to jjj
other interlinking spheres, until the whole of space is peopled j jj
by similar bodies.” jjj
The outside of this sphere, as we approached it, seemed jjj
luminous. As we entered the inner portion it enlarged, and jjj
presented to the vision the aspect of a surface with an over-arch- j jj
ingdome. Distance and space always assume those forms and jjj
even to the spiritual vision there is the same conformation in jjj
spiritual space. I found that I was not dependent upon the jji
utterance of thought in speech for an expression, nor for an ijj
answer from my guide ; that instead of the earthly senses I jjl
possessed one abiding sense of perception, and was aware of ! 1
every thought my mind was capable of receiving. When a
new thought was advanced I seemed to listen. No word
reached me as sound reaches the human ear, produced by
vibrations upon the air, but there came directly into my
consciousness a vibration similar to that of sound—a mental
vibration—and I watched for the gradual growth of my con¬
sciousness to understand the thought, just as a deaf person
hears a sound partially and waits for the mind to interpret
the sound if it be a little vague. Deaf spiritually, I found
that I must wait and wait, till the inward consciousness ex¬
panded to receive the ideas of the mind; I grew more and
more conscious of the exercise of those surpassing spiritual
powers that I mean to convey the idea of through
sympathy, through the love of the thought that my attendant
spirit possessed, and I found as that intensity increased that
even the vision of Dante became more and more fulfilled and
revealed to my consciousness; namely, that the will or
desire of my spirit interpreted to my understanding the
thought and the vision which the guide would convey. Then
I exclaimed, “ Must I unlearn all that I have learned on
earth ? Must I reverse the methods of thought ? ” He said,
“ You must begin at the beginning. Science on earth is but
an approximate result of spirit and matter. In spiritual life
you have the primary. The essences are here; whatsoever
acts upon matter, its prototype is found here, and spirits
exercise the functions of creative existence.” When I did
not understand this he explained further that though I per¬
ceived mind acting upon the space around me in the form of
creating a great luminosity, to which light there was no
seeming vibration, because no external atmosphere, light it¬
self has no existence as an entity or essence, and is only the
result of vibration caused by force. When, therefore,
spiritual light exists it is the force of the mind acting upon
the atmosphere spiritually surrounding the individaul. Then
I said: “ Is it true that out of seeming nothingness creation
could have sprung ? ” I then perceived that chaos itself is
peopled with far more fine and heavenly bodies and sub¬
stances than the earth, which is the grave of centuries and
ages of time.
I was then introduced into a sphere where there seemed
to radiate scintillations of thought and mind upon atmos¬
pheres that were distant, and I could perceive in the centre,
as though holding out lines of light, one whom I could not
but feel was Kepler himself. “ Now,” I said, “ I shall
learn in what manner spirits discover the sciences which
upon earth are the result of so much toil and labour.” I could
see that these lines of light radiated from his mind, and were
propelled in proportion to his will; that they gradually out¬
spread, until whatever planet or world he wished to study
was brought within the sphere of these lines of light. Then
said my teacher, “ Every spirit possessing knowledge and
power can at any time discover a planet, its condition, its
density, the state of its inhabitants, and the various qualities
pertaining to it, by such will power as you perceive there.”
I failed to know when I should possess even the shadow of
such] power, but my guide said, “ Do not be discouraged;
have you any one on earth whom you wish to benefit ? ”
“ Certainly,” I said, and I straightway thought of some one
dear to me, whose life I might make or wish to make more
beautiful. He said, “Think intently of that person.” I
thought, and, as though a lens had been presented to my
vision, I saw not only the spiritual state, but the earthly
habitation of that person—saw the condition of mind and
body, and, by the effort of my will, I could read the thought
passing in the mind, which was sorrowful and full of pain.
He said, “ Now will to change that sorrow to joy.” And
straightway I willed as though—if I had ever prayed—it were
a prayer, and I could perceive the vibrations changing in the
mind, that, instead of pain and sorrow, there seemed to be
joy and peace, and the eyes were uplifted, and the thought
was turned toward me in my new habitation, and the person
moved the lips as if in prayer, and there was another atmo¬
sphere 6f joy instead of sorrow. He said, “ What you have
done for that one spirit proves that you have the power—
when it shall blossom out into full perfection—of doing
perhaps for a whole world of souls. It then finally dawned
upon my consciousness that this must be what Jesus meant
when He described Himself as the door and the true vine—
that it was His great desire which made it possible for Him
Aua. 4, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 9
to help the world. Then I said, “Are desire and will jj
synonymous?” He said, “ Desire, when chastened by '
unselfishness, becomes the will-power of the spirit, and j
upon it the soul can arrive to any height. No insect upon |i
earth and no luminary in the firmament above but the spirit i!
can bless and possess in knowledge, if the desire be tempered
by unselfishness and lofty aspiration.” Then straightway I I
felt that my selfishness was leaving me, and that a desire to
do good to others took possession of my intense thirst for [
knowledge. Then I said, “ Is it not true that knowledge is |
the great key that opens the spiritual pathway, and must it
not be by various avenues of science and learning that we I
enter the highest degrees of spiritual states ?” He answered,
“ No; knowledge is one of the instruments, a weapon for
the mind to use, a channel of communication between the
inner and the outer world ; but no knowledge ever admitted
the spirit to such power as you have developed by the un- j
selfish wish to benefit your friend.”
Then a new realm unfolded to my vision, where mathe¬
matics was not; and was it Kepler that I saw measuring j
the distance of stars in pome divine beatitude ? It was a
lofty scene. Oh, but it was Kepler, who, coupled with
sublimest thought of intellect, possessed love for his kind, j
Ay, but it was Galileo, far away in the whiter light that I
saw, who with scientific prophecy still loved the truth and
loved mankind. Ay, but it was a long line of risen sons
and prophets in my world whom I had seen; but who not
through scientific law had risen to that eminence, but by
the same process—“ Whatsoever ye shall impart to others
that shall be increased tenfold.” Then so far as my life
was concerned I imparted intellect, but perhaps not so j
much of kindness. I was not accused of being severe, but
the thought never entered my mind that the attributes which
I most prized, of intellect, of culture, of science, of art,
were not to be the passport into the kingdom of lofty com¬
panionship which I sought. Now I saw that through the
humblest gateway we must enter, and must become as little
children. Now I perceived that the true spiritual solvent is
not mathematics, is not astronomy, is not chemistry, is not
any earthly science, but the one quality of divine sympathy
and love. I felt myself moved and drawn toward every
human being whom I could possibly benefit, and it seemed
as though I would give all my life if I could only serve my
kind.
With this thought there sprang into being all about me
forms and shapes like pictured images in dreams of ancient
lore. The Arabian Nights could not present a more singular
spectacle than these scenes, picturesque, grand, and beauti¬
ful, and that were one after another presented to my vision—
palaces of light, temples of loveliness, gorgeous colours and
hues intermingled, endearing faces, and scenes without
number on walls of pictured beauty. Then said my guide,
“ These are the creations of lofty minds, who not through
scientific splendour or art have reared these domes, but by
their deeds of self-denial, by the thoughts that have bene¬
fited maukind, by the uplifting of those who are in dark¬
ness.” And then methought that, if all my spiritual exis¬
tence should blossom out even into one such image, it would
well repay me for every deed of kindness that I could ex¬
press upon earth or in eternity. And I now repeat that
while art is great and science fills the world with wonder
and with power, and the threefold mysteries of human life
are imitated in the gigantic structures of art, science, and
religion, the crowning glory of human life is to discover
that the spiritual solvent is that sympathy that unites soul
with soul, mind with mind, thought with thought; that
death, the great unraveller of all mysteries, places in the
hand of even the obscurest and humblest loved one of any
fireside the golden weapons of immortal life.
Some interesting seances, through the mediumship of Mrs. Kate Fox-
Jencken, took place last Sunday and Monday, at Brighton, at the house
of Mr. Martheze, who, with Mr. 'H. D. Jencken and Mr. W. H.
Harrison, was among the observers present.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten requests those who desire to address
her in future to observe that her address is no longer at New York, but
118, Westchester Park, Boston, Mass., America. Mrs. Britten makes
this announcement in compliance with the request of the New York
postal authorities, who complain of the trouble occasioned by for¬
warding her communications to Boston.
(KamsponTience.
Qrreat Jreedon is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT PACES AND HANDS.
Sir,—Having had some remarkable manifestations here last Monday
evening, under circumstances rendering it impossible for even a sceptic
to found any suggestion to invalidate the perfect genuineness of the
facts, I offer you an account of them, leaving the publication of them en¬
tirely at your disposal.
My husband, Mr. Colman, and I (after carefully shutting the shutters,
and locking the doors), sat round our uncovered dining table with all
our hands in full view. We burned a benzoline spirit lamp, which gave
a subdued light, quite sufficient for every article in the room to be dis¬
cernible. Immediately we sat down a large materialised hand took
hold of my dress under the table, pulled it vigorously, and patted me ;
it then took hold of my husband’s knee. He and I put our hands under
the table, and were permitted to feel it; we both described it as being a
large well-formed hand, warm, and fleshlike to our touch, but with a
peculiar dryness I have never felt on any mortal hand.
At our request the hand scratched under the top of the table, evincing
I the fact that there was a perfect materialised nail. A couple of seconds
I elapsed, and another hand appeared at the side of the table; it withdrew
and reappeared at different sides of the table, sometimes close to me,
sometimes quite in the opposite direction. All the time the medium’s
and our own hands were resting on the table. A cardboard tube was
then placed by my husband under the table close to him; it was taken
at once, and pushed up its whole length against the vacant side of the
| table. At the same time that it was held up to our view, a spirit hand
| enveloped in drapery appeared at about one foot from and about two
| inches higher than the table. The medium had, as I have already
stated, his hands before him on the table, and his feet under his chair,
both visible to us all the time.
A pocket-handkerchief was then placed at the edge of the table,
from which Mr. Colman withdrew, and stood behind his chair. The
spirit hand again appeared, and took hold of the handkerchief. My
I husband was then requested to hold the handkerchief tightly at the
| edge of the table. In a second it was tugged from his grasp, and
I carried under the table across to the medium.
j Subsequently we unscrewed our dining table, and placed a box
I twenty-four inches square over the aperture, and covered just one
| side only of the table with a shawl. The medium then became en-
| tranced, and sat down close to the table and chatted with us; we
were permitted to sit close to the box, on the other side of the table, to
I witness a most marvellous manifestation.
With fixed gaze and intense curiosity, we watched. Nothing was
visible. Gradually a slight misty vapour appeared a little below the
centre of the box, then quickly vanished; again it appeared, this time a
little more visible, then gradually developed into a perfect face. I dis¬
tinctly discerned the materialised earrings, the jewels of which sparkled
brilliantly. After remaining a little time fully materialised, the face
gradually dematerialised before our eyes, first into a thick kind of
II vapoury cloud, from that into a misty vapour, gradually vanishing as we
I watched until all was dematerialised.
Immediately my husband and I thoroughly examined both table and
II box, but I need scarcely say found nothing. We were enabled closely
to watch Mr. CoLman the whole time, and he could not have done a
11 single thing without our knowledge.
These highly satisfactory manifestations prove that with our dear
| spirit friends the greatest difficulties in materialisation can be over-
11 come; that nothing is impossible provided we give them perfect con-
i: ditions. Were it not that I am afraid of trespassing on your time, I
[ | could give a most extraordinary account of materialised hands in broad
11 daylight. Bertha Friederichs.
[ i 138, Adelaido-road, South Hampstead, July 27th, 1876.
have the lower animals souls?
“There is life in the old dog yet.”
“ Or in the night, imagining some fear,
How easy is a bash supposed a bear.”
“ Mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses,
Or else worth all the rest.”
Sir,—I have been struck with Georgina Weldon’s statement that in
the dusk of the evening, her nurse and a pupil walking in her garden,
saw the spirit of her old dog “ walking towards his grave.” This reminds
me of the statement made by Mr. Home to the committee of the Dialectical
Society, as given in page 193 of the Report. On his being asked if he
I had seen the spirit of a lower animal—“ the spirit of a dog, for
instance ”—replied “ No,” but that he had seen birds; and said again,
| in reply, that “ the power is limited to living things, I have seen a
flower; it disappeared.”
Here, then, we have the belief in spirits extended to all living forms,
if not to all objects; not only a spirit enclosed in all bodies, the source
|| of all power, thought, instinct, and action, as supposed by Bacon, but
i i actual spirits. Bacon affirmed that animals reasoned, and gave instances
of it, as Mr. Darwin has done; and not only so, but Bacon even
II assigned to them imagination, as in the following remarkable passage
11 from the Natural History:—
11 “ The insects,” he writes, “ have voluntary motion, and therefore
i! imagination; and whereas some of the ancients have said that their
11 motion is indeterminate, and their imagination indefinite, it is negligently
observed, for ants go right forward to their hills, and bees do (admirably)
11 know the way from a flowery heath, two or three miles off, to their
1 i hives. It may be gnats and flies have their imagination more mutable
and giddy, as small birds likewise have, . . . and though their spirit
J be diffused, yet there is a seat of their senses in the head.”
10
THE SPIHITHALIST.
Aug. 4, 1876.
On the other hand, Descartes supposed that the lower animals did not
possess conscience or feeling at all, and that their lives were purely
automatic, a question which Professor Huxley has been discussing very
lately, and, of course, it is a very deeply interesting matter in respect to
the cruelty to animals, as also in respect to the whole plan of nature.
Judge Holmes, in his great work, says : “ A fabulous opinion is still
prevalent that man only (and some would even leave out the lower races
of men as well as the higher apes) has a soul. It is based upon certain
foggy, mystical, and obscure notions of the Biblical revelation, and
means only that man alone has such a soul as can be saved and go to
Heaven.” Now, any spirit, one would think, ought to be able to settle
this question, though it might be that the lower animals have a different
sphere of existence from man, supposing that they have a future at all.
Henky G-. Atkinson, F.Gr.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, July 27th, 1876.
SUGGESTED TESTS FOR DISBELIEVERS. j (
Sir,—My visit to London in the month of May had for its object to 11
arrive, if possible, at some conclusions regarding the truth of modern I \
Spiritualism, and the twelve days I spent in London were devoted i (
almost exclusively to the prosecution of this object. I
Before making the practical reflections and suggestions which prompt i
me to write, allow me first to gratify myself by expressing my sincere j
thanks for the great kindness which I experienced from you and Miss j |
Kislingbury, and from many other members of the National Association j |
of Spiritualists in Great Russell-street, with whom, through Mr. Tod’s |!
kindness, I came in contact. 11
My first impression was a decidedly favourable one. I was struck ]
not only by the kindness, but by the good sense and intelligence of those j!
I met in spirit circles; and I must also say that, so far as I could form |
a judgment, all the parties seemed to me perfectly honest and sincere |
in their convictions. j j
Regarding again the subject-matter of my inquiries, I do not hesitate j
to say that throughout the period of my sight-seeing in spirit-land I j j
witnessed many things which both surprised and puzzled me—things j
which at the time I did not believe to be done by any known physical j
agency, and which I therefore felt compelled to ascribe to some unknown j j
and possibly super-physical power. i
To come now to the practical matter which urges me to write, I | (
cannot but regret that an association formed for investigating a subject j
so pre-eminently important as Spiritualism, should not proceed with I /
somewhat more method in its investigations. If there is truth in the i (
phenomena exhibited, and any desire to establish the facts, it is surely j!
very important to discover at least two or three simple phenomena |
which can be exhibited under absolutely strict test conditions, and to j (
witness which you need not fear to invite Professors Tyndall, Huxley, i j
or the most critical philosophers in the kingdom. Such fully tested |)
phenomena I have anxiously waited for, and not having witnessed any j (
such in London, I returned to Scotland, puzzled certainly, but not ijj
convinced. ill
In the dark seances, for instance, whatever my belief might be of |j
their honesty, I yet could not feel absolute certainty that there were not j )\
accomplices present, who might slip about and move the furniture, tap j
or shake the hands, and assume the well-known voice of the redoubted j (|
John King. U]
Even when the dark seance is a private one, where the investigator j h
and the medium are the only parties supposed to be in the room, how j (j
does the inquirer know but from some cupboard, from behind the i|]
shutters, or through a panel in the door, an accomplice may not enter, ] u
and softly in his stockings’ soles perform all the requisite movements ? j (]
Then, in the cabinet seances, with subdued light, we know that a cer- oj
tain play of the hands may be obtained by slipping the tape nooses a in
little way up the small of the arm, and it is easy to see that the medium j (\
may by practice be enabled in this way to show his hands as spirit- j ?!
hands, and deceive the credulous. Or, may he not, if he chooses, draw I (!
artificial hands from his coat pockets, or from under the chair on which j (l
he sits, or from a fold of the curtain close to his face? Or, may an ])]
accomplice amongst the spectators not very easily slip the artificial j (j
article into the medium’s hands, tied though they be behind his back, j j|
just before the seance is formed. All these possibilities of fraud render j )|
public and private exhibitions of this kind valueless for proof, and my j (j
belief is that unless certain experiments can be devised under absolute j (l
test conditions, the seances will very soon degenerate into something so i |j
meaningless and monotonous that they will not attract even the most j \\
listless and easily pleased seekers after amusement. j v
It is because I am much interested in Spiritualism, and desirous of i ?j
establishing its truth, that I now venture to suggest two simple experi- j (j
ments, either of which, successfully performed, would be sufficient to |||
establish its verity. Let a box be properly taped, and the tapes knotted i
and sealed at each crossing; let it contain a small handbell, also apiece j (j
of writing paper, with the signatures of the investigators thereon for j ! i
identification, and a short bit of lead pencil. If the bell can in these j \\
circumstances be rung, or if a few words can be written on the paper j (:
while it is locked up, it is clear we have a proof of Spiritualism which j ) i
cannot be gainsayed by any sceptic, however illustrious he may be. The j ri
other experiment I would suggest has reference to the formation of casts j si
of spirit hands. Let a box, with wooden top and bottom, and sides of j >1
wire netting, say of half-inch mesh, be formed, sufficiently capacious to j ?i
contain ajar of hot water and paraffin, and another jar of cold water. | si
Let it be locked, taped, and sealed by the investigators before introduc- If}
ing the medium into the room. Let it then be examined through the j) i
wire sides by all who take an interest in the experiment. Let the seance j s j
then proceed in a modified light, the box being in sight, but covered if |)i
necessary with a loose drapery thrown over it, and after the seance is jji
finished let the contents of the box be again scrutinised through the jij
wires before it is opened. If the cast of a spirit hand is seen in the box i /j
in these circumstances a proof is thereby furnished of a spiritual act of !<i
the highest possible interest, and which cannot fail to attract the atten¬
tion of men of science, and which will, I venture to say, very quickly
change their estimate of the importance of the subject.
These experiments may not be successful for some time, for it would
seem that spirits, like mortals, require time and practice to attain pro¬
ficiency. If, however, these experiments are possible the prosecution of
them is well worth all the encouragement which the British Association
can give. To prove my sincerity I hereby offer a prize of £5 to the
medium who is successful in the second of these experiments, and per¬
haps others, may add to the sum, to make it more worthy of a continued
effort. Robert S. Wyld, M.D.
Braemar, Aberdeenshire, July, 1876.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT THE BEGINNING OF LIFE.
At the present day, when the general theory of evolution is accepted by all, save the
ignorant or the prejudiced, the antecedent probability is overwhelming, that our moral
sense, like all our other psychological faculties, has been evolved.—Quarterly Journal of
Science, April, 1876.
Sir,—The following communication, purporting to come from Cuvier,
was given through the mediumship of Mme. Kreil, of Bordeaux:—
Certain savans at the present day, from discoveries made by laborious
research, coupled with ancient data, have established the physical origin
of man. You Spiritualists wish to go still farther, and you ask your¬
selves whether the animal, your maternal ancestor and poor younger
brother, who occupies the earth with you, does not also possess that
intelligent portion of being which you call soul.
This important and difficult question, since you wish it, we will
endeavour to answer. I will give you my present opinion, which may
appear to contradict certain ideas formerly held by me. That, however,
is of little consequence; but what is of the utmost importance is to
speak the truth unhesitatingly when one thinks one knows it. The
orthodox will tell you that it is impious to desire to penetrate certain
mysteries. But it is not so, my friends; there is no mystery, but an
open book to him who will take the trouble to read it. Instead of being
wrong, it is the duty of the humble student to heed the Master’s admoni¬
tion, who says, “ Seek and ye shall find.”
What are the essential elements that constitute the soul ? Memory,
intelligence, will. Do not certain animals give you every day incon¬
testable proof of intelligence, memory, will ? You are obliged to answer
yes. Nevertheless, I do not therefore immediately conclude that animals
possess a soul exactly like ours, but they assuredly possess the principle
of it, for what you call instinct is nothing less than the beginning of
the life of a soul destined to become a spirit, exactly as animal incarnations
precede human incarnations, a fact now demonstrated by science. You
all know that the animal possesses in different degrees the faculty of
loving, and especially the instinct of maternal attachment, basis of
perfect love. Now, since love and suffering, so long as love is not a
sentiment entirely pure, are indissolubly connected, why does God, who
is inexorable justice and infinite love, create beings doomed to
undergo objectless sufferings without that avenue to the glorious
future of progress and happiness being open to them, as it is
to his other creatures ? He does not do so. The only road to spiritual
life is through suffering. It is certain that the animal suffers even in
that intelligent portion of his being which I will call his soul. Dogs
have been known to die of grief; such cases are not rare. If you have
an opportunity, visit a battle-field, follow a horse seeking his master,
and when he finds his corpse listen to his neigh of recognition, and say
if that is not a cry of anguish. This mode of advancing through grief
is a proof of his progress, and, consequently, a certain proof of the
existence in this being of a spark of spirituality. We are now, my
friends, in the position of the child who wishes to cross a brook upon a
plank; he takes a step, and, upon the plank shaking, he is frightened
and turns back. Fortunately for the gratification of his desire, the
attraction of novelty and the thirst for the unknown urge him to fresh
attempts, which are generally crowned with success. After what I have
just said, your minds are working, and you have a question to ask me,
namely, has the animal a personality ? I pass first across the shaking
bridge, and answer decidedly, “ Yesfor to assert that God causes an
animal to suffer who has no individuality would be to doubt (which is
impossible) His goodness and justice. He has, therefore, individuality,
and consequently, responsibility. Individuality, since he loves, suffers,
and remembers, and for whom not many more stages are necessary
before he becomes endowed with free-will. Responsibility, for some
animals are endowed with passions; for what are the hatred, wicked¬
ness, vengeance, gluttony and obstinacy they exhibit, but the first links
in the long chain of passions ? This individnality—-this responsibility
—these sufferings, which are not observable in the animal at his early
incarnations, nor in any kind of plant whatsoever, are always, it must
be understood, relative, and the greater they are the greater is the
intelligent portion of the being.
Before concluding this conversation, I will reply to two observations
you are anxious to make. You say that, notwithstanding the progress,
species does not change; an animal of a certain kind is the same to-day
as he has always been, no different and no better, and will remain the
same to all eternity. These moulds, these forms, which appear to you
to remain unchanged, are, nevertheless, modified in proportion as a
world progresses, for everything is subject to ascensional law. Just
as your perisprit becomes more refined after having been almost
material in its early periods, the mineral, vegetable, and animal king¬
doms undergo changes inappreciable to observations that can be made
in one existence. In the second place, did these moulds remain abso¬
lutely the same, that would in no way hinder the progress of the spiritual
spark which animates them, for this spark merely occupies these forms
temporally, leaving them to take possession of others, while at the same
time rising and incessantly developing until it becomes able to form a
spiritual being. Your second remark is, I believe, to this effect. While
crediting certain animals with a greater amount of intelligence and
goodness than is possessed by certain savage and primitive races of
11
Aug. 4, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
men, we nevertheless perceive that sensibility or feeling is more
developed in the men than in the animals. This may serve as proof of
the superiority of the human over the animal race, but it is not an abso¬
lute rule, for the difference of sensibility is not so very great between the
two, between the backward man and the advanced animal. Indeed, you
will see the savage support without complaining, tortures that would
drive you mad. You will see him, for instance, drag his broken limbs
to his hut, exactly as you see a wounded dog enter his kennel to die, or
the horse, on the contrary, remain on the spot where he has been hurt.
You will hear the dog howl with pain, the horse never, and if we seek
among the animals not belonging to the intelligent portion, I ask
whether the poor fly does not suffer, although we hear no cry when he
escapes from the little torturer, the cruel child, who has just pulled off
his wings. Is it possible to determine the exact amount of sensibility?
To a certain extent, yes ; but I do not think it can be done with any
certainty. Besides, we must bear in mind, in justice to the savage, that
he is, during his first human incarnations, in a transitory state, making
a kind of trial of the form in which he is struggling painfully against the
brutality and animal habits of the original incarnations he has passed
through. This leads me to tell you that there is less distance between
the animal and man than between the plant and the animal, although you
perceive these two connected by intermediate links, which have ceased
to belong to the one kingdom without belonging to the other. These
points of union between the mineral, vegetable, and animal species, are
in my opinion, positive proof of progress, a proof of the wonderful con¬
catenation of the works of the creator.
Question.—Is the intelligent principle separated in the beginning, and
does it eventually come together to form a complete being f
Answer.—The intelligent principle is developed with the being, and it
is one at its origin, owe during its development, one always. It is a
spark that continues to grow, becoming first a light, and afterwards a
sun. Our business now is to discover the moment when this spark
appears and transforms the material being into an intelligent one. So
long as it, during its early peregrinations, has but latent life in the form
of movement, while atom, molecule, appearing and disappearing in a
few short moments, it serves but for the transformation of matter. So
long as it has no consciousness of its life, we must admit that it does
not yet possess that instinct which afterwards becomes intelligence-
soul, spirit. These nameless creatures, without precise form, impalpable
and almost invisible, which throng fluidic and solid matter, are the con¬
necting link between the vegetable and the beginning of animal life. In
my opinion this divine spark shines in matter as soon as the creature
possesses the desire to preserve its life. From that moment he is
something, he does not yet know what, but he is sensible of that inde¬
finable thing which is life. This feeling is as yet simply instinctive, for
the animal, scarcely understanding life, fears not death; not being
aware of danger, he rarely avoids it, and death takes him, so to say,
without pain, and transports him into another form. This is the inter¬
mediate point between instinct and intelligence; from the former to the
latter there are, of course, all the degrees through which the creature is
obliged to pass in travelling from the less to the greater.
When instinct has become intelligence capable of the sentiment of
the preservation of life, there is fear of death and pain; the animal
defends his life in every way—by attacking the enemy, by foresight of
danger and stratagem in avoiding it. He loves, and will fight for the
object of his affection as long as strength permits. He has now
memory, reasoning, and will to help him in his struggle against the
inevitable law to which he is subject. Can we not add that he has an
intuition of previous sufferings ? Is not this innate fear of death the
result of a kind of memory of former struggles? Who knows? I
believe that this is the moment when the intelligent spark is very near
illumination for a yet more important transformation. I think the time
is not far distant when this intelligence may be called, let us say it,
Soul! Then this creature does more than defend his life, he endeavours
to preserve it, and does all he can to prolong it. A few more passages
and he will take possession of himself, and have free will. From that
there is still a long way to travel before he understands the duty of the
preservation of life, and the necessity of trial, and the object of exist¬
ence imposed on the creature by the Creator.
It would be to exceed our limits were we to continue this subject, but
I repeat in conclusion that the work of God is admirable, in order, con¬
nection, harmony, simplicity. And although man revolts against the
idea, it is nevertheless true that in attentively studying the world he
inhabits, it is easy to discover his origin. The king of creation, by the
law of progress, man will understand some day the tie of solidarity
which connects him with all the beings by which he is surrounded, and
when he becomes fully cognisant of this fraternity, he will no longer call
himself king and master, but father and protector of the inferior beings
which commence the life that he completes. G.
Paris, July 27th, 1876.
MOBE ABOUT “ S. J. SABEL, ESQ.”
Sir,—I received to-day The Spiritualist paper of yesterday’s date,
and noticing therein the message which Dr. Slade obtained on Friday
last week concerning the spirit of a recently-deceased inhabitant of this
town, who signed his name “ S. J. Sabel, Esq.,” my curiosity was
aroused. In the directory I found the name, “ Sabel, Israel, Registrator,
a. d. Dotzheimer Strasse, 7a,” but no S. J. Sabel. Upon inquiries at a
stationer’s, I was told that a gentleman of the above name, “ J. Sabel,”
had died lately. I thereupon went to the above address, Dotzheimer
Str., 7a., where I was informed, by Mrs. Sabel—the wife of a son of
the deceased—that her father-in-law had died on 16th inst., that he had
only been once in England, in 1860, but that a son of his, Mr. Max
Sabel, who is here on a visit just now, had been established in London
for many years.
I have just been and had a talk with Mr. Max Sabel, in the Hotel
du Nord. I found him to be a confirmed sceptic. After reading the
alleged message of his deceased father, he smiled amusingly, and said,
Dr. Slade must be a clever fellow, and must have made use of the
advertisement of his father’s death in the London newspapers. How
| the thing was done by way of a slate he could not say, but he was sure
it was a trick. Curious to hear what more he had to say about the
j topic, I listened attentively for a good while without interrupting him,
until he gave me a chance by mentioning Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook,
I and how cleverly they reproduced and exposed all the tricks of Spirit-
I ualism. Here I interposed, and told him what my experience with
| Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke was, and what a clumsy piece of humbug
>! I had found the tricks of these conjurors to be, in comparison with the
1! genuine phenomena of Spiritualism which I had witnessed in London.
II Of course, my telling him that had no effect in changing his opinions;
i j I knew beforehand it would not. He told me he had been at several
1: of Mr. Home’s seances, and also at one seance, in which many others
11 took part, when a light was struck, and it was discovered that Mr.
| Home had deceived them by means of wires and other mechanical
|! appliances suspended from the ceiling of the room. I could not help
| doubting the accuracy of this last part of his narrative—in my mind—
11 but, not to offend him, I gave him the benefit of the doubt for the
| j present.
i j Mr. Sabel further told me, with laudable frankness, that he was a
11 thorough materialist, did not believe either in spirits or a future life,
! but would be glad if his deceased father would inform him where
| he had left his inheritance. He promised me to see Dr. Slade when
i back in London, probably with a view of obtaining a clue to the undis-
| eovered inheritance.
j The deceased, S. J. Sabel, never used to sign his name “ Esq.,” nor
i did he die on the 15th, but on the 16th inst.
! I wish Dr. Slade would favour this town with a visit. I believe it
j could not fail that his journey would be abundantly remunerative
i through private seances among the many rich residents, in this place,
| as soon as the fact became known that Dr. Slade was coming here,
j My means are insufficient to offer him any material inducement on my
11 own part, and our circle here only consists ordinarily of three in all,
11 neither of us being blessed with an abundance of the metal that forms
(j the standard of wealth in this world. G. Wiese.
|j 2K, Burgstrasse, Wiesbaden, July 29tli, 1876.
(I [We believe the charge against Mr. Home repeated in the above letter to be
U entirely without foundation. No medium has been more free from charges of
}j trickery, even by the most prejudiced.—Ed.]
NORTH OF ENGLAND SPIRITUALISTS’ CONFERENCE COMMITTEE.
Sir,—A meeting of the Executive of the above committee will be
held in the Freemasons’ Hall, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street, New-
castle-on-Tyne, on Sunday next, August 6th, at 10.30 a.m. Members
will please attend, as the business to be considered is important.
J. J. Morse, Hon. Sec.
30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, July 31st, 1876.
|(| THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
i J ] Sir,—I shall be told that I am describing a person who is undiscover-
jh able when I say that a nurse should be a “ refined, sesthetio, charming
| j person, lovely in mind and in thought, tender to a degree, yet firmer
| ! stillendowed with that independence of fortune and character which
i j | would enable her to take the first position in a house, so as to be con-
| | sidered by master and mistress, and by the servants, the most important
| | and the most indispensable person in the house. I shall be told that
| i ladies who are young, who are pretty, who have independent fortunes,
I (! would not so devote themselves as to live in other people’s houses and
! | teach children. Then, say I, what and who are all the nuns, the
I | sisters of various religious orders? Are they not, very frequently,
j | ladies of fortune, with youth and beauty ? and do they not cheerfully
| | give up what is called “ the pleasures of this world ” for the purpose of
]|| devoting their lives to the poor, to the criminal, and to hospital work?
|(i If, therefore, there are ladies devoted to do this kind of work, why
] j | should there not be ladies willing to undertake the education of chil-
111 dren ? I am aware that Sisters do teach in schools; but all teaching
|(j in schools is, in my opinion, either too much or too little. I consider
■; J | that the education of the higher classes has to be reformed before any
IJ ] efficient good can be wrought among the lower classes, because till the
! (j lower classes can conscientiously look up to the higher ones as their
j|j superiors in intellect and righteous behaviour, it cannot be expected that
111 they should respect, obey, or devote themselves to them.
! j A teacher of children should be respected and obeyed as I believe
| [ i “ Sisters of Charity ” are. If parents found that ladies of birth, educa-
I | tion, and fortune were willing to enter their homes, and to bring up their
] J i children, I do not fancy there would be much opposition on their part.
! | Of course if they found that the self-imposed teacher got into their
j j house as a visitor, for the sake of society and amusement, they would
j ] naturally be dissatisfied; but if the nurse or governess devoted herself
i to her work by being at breakfast with the children at eight, and from
! that hour till bed-time never quitting them and never wanting to “ go
! out,” then I doubt whether any parents would not bless the stranger
J | that had entered their doors. As a treat the children should be dressed
i j and undressed by this person, washed and bathed by her, and there
(i should not be an action of importance (and all actions are of importance
|| to little children), in which the teacher should not participate, and in
! 11 which she should not exhibit an interest. I know I am trying to per-
i j suade human beings of something fabulous in describing this ideal and
] 11 imaginary perfection of a governess. I am, however, not preaching
i 11 what I do not practice; this is the life I actually lead. Only, as I
| (| have a sufficient fortune, I am able to take the children into my
l|| own house and educate them altogether. I only wish I had a mother
1(1 at the head of the establishment to manage the household part of it,
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 4,1876.
who would come with her fortune and do that part of the work. I am
much disturbed from my teaching because I am obliged to attend to so
many other things. I am desirous of establishing my system of educa¬
tion. I believe it is my duty to do so ; I believe, in short, that it is my
“mission.” How can I prove the efficiency of my “system ” without a
sufficient number of children ? The few children I have being “ un- !
commonly good children ” may be “ chance” Their accomplishments—
“ Must have a decided turn for it!” Their memory—“ Must have been
born a clever child; you never would have made my memory good!”
Their conversation and manner of speaking:—“ How extraordinarily
ivell they talk. Nex>er heard children speak so plainly /” Now this is
all mere talk; it is from ignorance on the part of those who see and
hear my children, that these observations are made. Very often the
stupidist child of the whole lot is pitched upon as the sharpest. Why ? j
Because the one I refer to is possessed of the most insidious qualities, j
child, man, or woman, can be cursed with. And which are those, you 1
will ask! I will tell you. , . . “ The desire to please ! The wish to be
remarked. The thirst for praise.” These three dangerous instincts,
which teachers generally seize upon and make the most of, are so many
moral poisons. Teachers, perhaps, have never realised, in spite of the |
teachings of the Gospel, that emulation is one of those things against which
our Saviour warns us the most strenuously, and that it is the most
selfish of moral levers. It is the wish to be remarked which will make j
a child push itself to the front; the thirst for praise which will make its
habitually lowering expression of countenance smile and brighten up ;
it is the desire to please which makes the inattentive child’s eye sparkle
i—and all this for an unthinking and heedless visitor, who forthwith,
in its presence, pronounces it the pleasantest and the sharpest. This
species of nature has no depth, no affection; it is all on the surface;
and as people generally look for nothing but surface, the possessor of j
such a nature is likely to be always successful and popular. Being
so shallow, he is not likely to encounter much opposition or individual
jealousy. He has gone through life merely “ pleasing.” He attains
power by reason of some accomplishment he has been trained for. The j
people who have surrounded him (he naturally has had the tact to i
surround himself by others weaker and shallower than himself), not
jealous of him, believing him to be too shallow ever to gain a really |
important position, have helped him up. They find him there one fine
day; he finds himself there—and why ? Because he has had no heart,
no affection; because he has never tarried on the way to give a friend a |
helping hand. He craved for notice, for flattery, for commendations
from every one. He values written encomiums, he parades them, he |
somehow or other has the natural gift of advertising and making the i
most of himself, and this is the secret of how so many inferior men fill
important posts.
This is what a teacher must above all guard against, and this is why |
a teacher must never leave the children under her care, either during
play or class hours. Time will show how I succeed, but I certainly do
believe this kind of unhealthy nature may be almost cured if taken in
time. Geokgina 'Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistook-square, W.C., July 29th, 1876.
WHAT ARE WORKS ? ! j
Sir,—I have read carefully your correspondent, “Lux’s” letter on j (
this subject, but am not convinced that the principles I contended for are i )
wrong. I frankly admit that my expression, “ by quality, not quantity, ; )
must our moral being be gauged,” was a clumsy one ; yet I do not think i )
it was essentially incorrect, nor will he, perhaps, when he reads my j \
explanation. It was based on some reflection on the nature of our i j
Lord’s denunciations against substitution, in His day, of enormous ritual i j
and ceremonious observance for genuine love of God and man, for un- i (
selfishness and humility. Surely it was quality, not quantity, in the i
moral being that he insisted on, in that wondrous lesson he gave us in j (
the parable of the Pharisee and the Publican; in the protest against j (
long repetition in prayer and displays of mortification; in the story of the ; )
wounded Samaritan; in His resistance of Sabbatarian bigotry, when He j (
healed the sick on the Sabbath-day; in His acceptance (and this is a I j
case in point) of the repentance of the malefactor on the cross.
Thus I would also maintain that the quality, not quantity, of our faith j (
is what we should especially seek to cultivate. Why, every protest j )
in Spiritualistic writings against intrusion of false and wicked spirit i
influences teaches us daily that lesson; but we have a higher illustra- j (
tion. “ Lord, increase our faith,” said His disciples. His reply was, j {
“If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye could’’ do the mightiest j )
wonders. He evidently wanted them to understand that it was not a i (
huge measure of what they called faith which was required, not large- I (
ness of acceptance of this or that, not a selfish desire to be brought into i /
a grand spiritual sphere of power; but that what was required was i (
seemingly a very small thing, total subjugation of self to God, the cul- i i
tivation of the feeling that, having nothing, being nothing in themselves, i )
yet, by giving themselves up to Him, they possessed all things. This j (
points out to what true faith is: it is consciousness by a human spirit j)
of a relation to God in The Logos. i)
Grant that to the man who committed this murder one form of this j (
faith was given, to be real it must have been accompanied by certain i j
necessary antecedents and consequences, such as an opening of the eye | )
of his spirit to his base and enormous guilt, remorse, repentance, and ! j
utter abandonment of self, such for us all, in greater or less degree, are !)
the first steps towards restoration. “ Lux,” I am sure, would not make :)
light of the tremendous process which I assume this man underwent; i |
what further purification “by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit : j
of burning” the evil ingrained in him may require we cannot know, but j)
that a first step was taken we may all hope.
The need and possibility of such processes I never thought of im- |)
pugning; the brief allusion to Dr. Watts’s harsh dogma of an absolute | S
negation of repentance and pardon after death might have shown j {
“Lux” that I could accept his illustrations of the contrary; I am
thankful that all the evidence we have on the subject lies that way.
Certainly we are related to two worlds in which “ time is a factor; ”
but there is a condition of life in which “ we reckon not by days and
years; ” it is ours here as well as on the other side. Eternity is a state
not to be measured by a clock, for time has nothing to do with it, and
the not seeing this is the cause of so much foolish rhetoric about
eternity as an infinite year. Of this great principle we have glimpses
in the experiences of our dreams, in those of drowning but recovered
men, of soldiers entering battle, of men tumbling down precipices, of
opium-eaters (for instance, He Quincy), and perhaps of many media of
the present day, and my hypothesis was that the man whose case was
in question might have passed under some of its more blessed con¬
ditions.
But your correspondent “ Lux ” ought to know all this better than I
can teach him; for he has, if I am not mistaken, trodden on the con¬
fines of a spiritual kingdom, of which the majority of your readers
have but slight knowledge, and has had glimpses of a glory, and con¬
ceptions of privilege, which few have been permitted to realise. In
such quality of faith, essential life attained by such quality of work,
essential, vital, spiritual, heavenly work, the old masters lived, wrought,
and overcame, and so “ obtained’’ and inherited, as is promised to such,
all things worth inheriting. A. T. A.
SPIRITUAL LECTURES IN LIVERPOOL.
Last Sunday afternoon the lecture at Meyerbeer Hall, by Dr. William
Hitchman, took the form of a reply to a recent charge to the clergy by
the present Bishop of Oxford. It seems from that prelate’s own account
of the matter, that many of the most eminent graduates of Oxford Uni¬
versity, fellows of colleges and professors or tutors, are open and avowed
unbelievers in the theology of Church and State. Christianity, as
ordinarily understood, is now either ignored or distinctly repudiated,
the battle-field being really occupied by those Spiritualists and Ma¬
terialists who recognise the facts evolved by Nature. With entire inde¬
pendence of their nomenclature, Dr. Hitchman gave some remarkable
illustrations of the power of the soul over the body, and replied to the
Bishop’s remarks by showing that practical morality, not theological
dogma, natural science, not orthodox ecclesiasticism, are destined to
pave the way for a more spiritual and blessed faith than the world has
yet experienced.
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy occupied the platform in the evening. In re¬
flections on the text “ Of such is the kingdom of heaven,” she submitted
amongst other illustrations that the guileless and single-hearted spirit
of the child is quite compatible with the strength, fulness, and maturity
of the man, and the wisdom of the sage. She deeply regretted the fact
that the scientific men of our day, with some few brilliant exceptions,
had not adopted a child-like attitude and willingness to learn in refer¬
ence to modern Spiritualism, but had preferred to stand aloof and treat
it as a delusion of the credulous or weak-minded, thus arrogating to
themselves inferentially a knowledge of all the forces in nature. Mrs.
Nosworthy advocated the cultivation, on the part of every truth-seeker,
of the docility, honesty, and simplicity of childhood, as well as in all the
circumstances of daily life, morally and socially, as a means of entrance
to the kingdom of heaven.
Mrs. Thomas Sunt, a well-known and meritorious professional
musician, has given some choice selections at the afternoon services at
Meyerbeer Hall, from the works of Handel, Mendelssohn, and Haydn,
which have proved very attractive, and will be repeated.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Labours.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-
street, Manchester. That in the afternoon was upon “ The Angels, and
the Angels of the Lord,” chosen by the chairman, Mr. W. Oxley, on
the speaker entering the hall. In the evening Mr. Marsden presided,
and the subject was, “ Spiritualists, their Position and Duties.” Each
address gave much satisfaction to attentive audiences. On Sunday
next, August 6th, Mr. Morse will deliver two trance addresses in the
Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne : in the after¬
noon, at three o’clock, “ Spiritualism, its Nature and Value; ” evening,
at seven o’clock, “ The Workshops of God.” On Monday evening Mr.
Morse will deliver a trance address at the pic-nic in Mr. Armstrong’s
grounds, at seven in the evening, subject, “ Life’s Four Seasons, their
Uses and Lessons.” Mr. Morse’s other engagements are — Ossett,
August 13th; Bishop Auckland, August 20th; Saltburn-by-the-Sea,
August 22nd, until end of month; Halifax, August 27th. Societies
desirous of engaging Mr. Morse’s services are requested to write to him
at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Swedenborgianism.—The New Jerusalem Church (Swedenborgian)
holds its annual general conference next week at Accrington, Lan¬
cashire, in the Abbey-street Church. The various congregations in
Great Britain will be represented by their ministers and delegates, who
will assemble on Monday evening ; the only business on that day will
be the signing of the roll. The actual business will commence on
Tuesday morning, when the president for the year will be elected;
the Rev. J. Presland (minister of Argyle-square Church, London) has
been nominated for the office. The appointments of several committees
will then take place, reports of the various institutions considered, and
other formal business transacted. In the evening a sermon will be
preached by the retiring president, the Rev. Dr. Bayley, of Palace-
gardens Church, Kensington, and the sacrament administered. The
following days will be occupied in the consideration and discussion of
matters affecting the welfare of the church in general, and its various
institutions. During the past year three ministers of the church have
passed to the higher life, viz., the Rev. J. Hyde, the Rev. De la Roche
Kendell, and the Rev. J. Keene.
Aua. 4, 1876.
THE 3 PIBilT U ALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;aiul well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.Q-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL; by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spirihuu visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo..l6s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LANt). Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contente: The
Anii-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist’’was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniwi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances arc not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, xos. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. (id. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits throngh
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. ;
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), ed.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
SEERS oTlrHEAGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Cd. _ _ ,
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA Of SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORV
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. »t fs, ed.) 4s.,
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10a
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .. . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .7
The Teacher. ,, II. ,, • • • • 7
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . 7
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . . 7
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . • 7
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .7
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . • *
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . • 7
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .5
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . 7
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .2
Death and the After-Life ...
History and Philosophy of Evil ....
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . .
Philosophy of Special Providence ....
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . • I 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . • « 0
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . 7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or; Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . • jj
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
6
6
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
. 24 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 6
0
6
7
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . , . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eiiel) ....
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.b. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans»ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. COllyer, M.D. . . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
theGrave, by theRev. JohnPam, B.A . .,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . ■ 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , . . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzi
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The lat„
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Galen
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolvhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E, T.
Hallock, 2s,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Au&. 4, 1876,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SpritucUist News¬
paper Branoh Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For"purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented- on the premises of the- National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]'
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM. THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted- as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the' instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public" audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The bo.ok is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—.Boston, U.S.: COLBY AND Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
QPIRITUAL- SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO TJ.S.A." The .'most' faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America." The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. . Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the . laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence. '
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co,, publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”.—Christian World.
. “The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who maybe inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are .identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is addncedin support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Pans, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirokinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed. want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without. the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
thejrequirements of Spiritualists,
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A, C. Burke.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton,
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. 0. Hall,, Esq., F.S.A., 60, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq,, 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-rd., Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-pk.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,Esq, M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq, 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square
John Lament, Esq, Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thos. Slater, Esq, 19, Leamington-rd.-villas, Westboume-pk.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq, 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq, Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
gee, A. Joy, Esq, 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The fdllmin sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq  £50 0 0
A. V. H   r    30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq    25 0 0
William. Tebb, Esq  25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq      25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq  20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann   .'      20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg       19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq.    ,..  10 10 0
A Friend...     10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire   10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq.   10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours    10 0 0
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq,    10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq   10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••    10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton  10 0 0
Mrs. Daun      10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq   ,,,,  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   5 5 0
Mrs. Berry         5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq..,.:    5 6 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq    5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq .-.  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq  5 0 0
Mrs. Watts  5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq    5 0 0
P. G         5 0 0
M.G. S    6 0 0
C. F. Yarley, Esq ,..  5 0 0
J. H. D„,„...    5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq,   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq        5 0 0
Scribo    5 0 0
W. S. Godbe,,,^     3 16 0
Friend per Mrs. Vernon    3 3 0
G de Liagre       3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq :    3 3 0
Miss Clark       3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq   . .,. 2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq     2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq.    2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie  ,..  2 2 0
F.      ,,,,   2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear   '.   2 2 0
Miss Whitear     2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq   2 2 0
D. G. Fitzgerald, Esq.    2 2 0
Miss Watts  ;        2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D  2 2 0
L. J    2 2 0
G. Damiani  2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.    2 0 0
M. DeVeh     2 0 0
John Lament, Esq   ,..  2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq    2 0 0
Miss Douglas      2 0 0
J. Hare, Esq., and Friends  2 0 0
Rev. J. Manners       2 0 0
R.B    110
D. H. W.   I    110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
W. Glynes, Esq,„  110
J. T. Peele, Esq    110
Dr. O. L. Robertson        110
Mrs. S. Dickson   110
Regnum       110
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq  l l o
F. A: Binney, Esq    110
W. W     110
J. Swinburne, Esq  110
J. Glcdstanes, Esq  10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory      10 0
Dr. Hayle    10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq     10 0
Mrs. Wiseman  10 0
A. R. Wallace, Esq     10 0
J. C. Eno, Esq     10 0
Col. H. S. Olcott  10 0
C. Reimers       10 0
Baronin v. Vay [ 0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq  0 10 6
C. C. G. |    0 10 0
D, S. Vi    0 5 0
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth
completes the worje.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism,
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IK.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
X VI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865,
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
if
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This "book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics o
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
UPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); ’Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;-
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mis. Ross-Church (Florence Manrat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of Si. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg’); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. iH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, i dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, US., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.”
[December, 1875.]
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
'A crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisemenis Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreoverj the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Are Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Hplborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
