AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
rREGISTEBED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 170.—(Vol. YII.—No. 22.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 26, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
Spirit Teachings. No. XLIII.... .•„   ...   253
Spiritualism and the Psychological Society. By Charles Carleton
Massey:—Test <Sfea«ces with Dr. Slade...    •  264
The 1875 Conference of Spiritualists:—The Necessity for Combined
Action amongst Spiritualists—Opposition to United Friendly
Action—The Work of an Organisation—The Strength Resulting
from Union—The Religious Influence of Spiritualism—Mr. E. T.
Bennett on the Importance of the Dissemination of Spiritualism
as a Religious Influence—Mr. Morse on the Religious Influence of
Spiritualism     255
The Mediumship of the Founder of the Quakers      258
The Appearance of a Spirit through Mr. Home’s Mediumship. By
Barbara Honywood  ;   ... 259
Winter Meetings of Spiritualists in London:—The Trustworthiness of
Spiritual Messages and Manifestations—Spirit Identity  259
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Caligraphy as a Test of
Character     261
Spiritualism and Broad Churchism  ... 262
Sunday Services at the Cleveland Hall     263
Provincial News:—DaWinyfore, New Physical Media in Darlington
— Walker-o n-Tyne—Birtley —PerkinsvUle — Flatfidd — Chester-le-
Street, Sunday Services—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Discouragement of
Dark Seances—Barrow-in-Furness—Liverpool, Sunday Services at
the Islington Rooms     263
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President,—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President —Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.  . •
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Fotjb per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. 4
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHES, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. H a.m. to 4 p.m. ■ Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to me mbers: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-mom can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE SPEAKER,
WILL DELIVER
, A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,
At Cleveland Hall, Oleveland-street, near Portland-road Station, W., on
♦he following Sunday evenings:—November 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th,
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the course, 6s. Body of the
hall, free.
Service to commence at 7 o’clock. Doors open at 6.30
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o’clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightfu climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be glad of
an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky, U'.S;, in
December, 1872, if be will kindly send his address to G. J. Smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till c-tiled for.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard deg
Oapucines, Paris.
if
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 26, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everltt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hlll, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory,Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvcnor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-liill, Balham, S.W.
Hitc'hman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Isllngton.gq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., fi2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 48, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 203, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-nill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George fl., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.,28,Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H«, 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D, G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo.J Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end. Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E.t 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Merse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Notttngham-place, York-gate, Ilegent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A..LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S E,
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common. •
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
-Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c.,25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
• General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Yay, Gonobitz, bei Potscnach, Styria, via Grata,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dircktock-Holmfeld, Pinnebcrg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme.de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York j U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardlnge Britten, 208, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 43, Drummoiid-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Uiuversity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Ruascll-gtreet,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 33, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H' Terry, Esck, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Verrion-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de ITJnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
LeComte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 87, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Seoretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nation at. Association or Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid student*
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive Asults arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi ‘
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers Into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 187S,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at Cl, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evening*,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
IV/STRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Conti ol in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
BUBBEB, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to (lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
■VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
_LN of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily! from 2 till S, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of,'diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Teims for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
VOjLUJVIE J3EVEJ''J. J^UJ^BER TWENTY-TWO*
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 26th, 1876*
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
No. XLIII.
[J inquired if there were any available records of
Egyptian theology to which I could get access.]
It is not necessary. All that remains of the old
Hermaic books is little. The writings in the mummy
cases from the Ritual of the Dead are excerpts from
them. The care for the body, we have said, was the
distinguishing mark of Egyptian religion. The funeral
ceremonies were very long and minute, and the writings
on the tombs and on the caskets which enshrined the
bodies of the departed are the earliest records of Egyp¬
tian faith.
You will not need to dive into these matters. It is
needful only that you see and grasp this great truth, that
the despised knowledge of the past had its germ of truth.
Nay more. Religion was to the Egyptian the
master principle of daily life, to which all else was sub¬
servient. Art, literature, science, were the handmaids
of religion, and the daily life itself was an elaborate
ritual. The faith in which he lived was incorporated
in every act. The Sun-God as it arose and set typified
the life which was then but beginning in him, and
which, in the twin Sothriac cycles would return again
after three thousand years of progressive education to
earth, only to be absorbed at last in the pure beams of
Ra, the source and spring of life and light.
The ceremonial purifications of worship pervaded his
daily work, and gave a tone of spirituality to the busi¬
nesses of life. All that the Egyptian did had reference
to the life hereafter on which his stedfast gaze was
fixed. Every day had its special presiding spirit or
deity, under whose protection it was placed. Every
temple had its great staff of prophets, priests, pontiffs,
judges, scribes.. These were versed in mystic lore, and
spent lives of purity and chastity in penetrating into
nature’s hidden secrets, and the mysteries of spirit
intercourse. They were a pure, learned, spiritual race,
albeit their knowledge of some things known to men
now was but slight. But we may say to you that in
deep, philosophical knowledge, in clearness of spiritual
perception, your wise men have no claim to rank with
them.
Nor in practical religion can your people equal the
* In T?ie Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extractsthey gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in ail cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
old Egyptians. We have learned long since to estimate
man’s religion by acts rather than by words; and we
pay little heed to the character of that ladder by which
man climbs heavenward. Ealse faiths abound still.
Man now as heretofore befogs himself with foolish
imaginings which he calls Divine Revelation. And
though the faith of Egypt were erroneous in much, it
possessed that which redeemed its errors and ennobled
the lives of its professors. They at 4east had not
clothed their lives with a dead materialism. They
had not closed every avenue to the higher life of spirit.
They recognised their god in every act of daily life,
even though their idea of the god-principle was crude.
They would not buy and sell and trade with deliberate
purpose to defraud and overreach. They would not
ignore all else but dead matter, even though they did
pay undue reverence to the perishable and material.
You know how far it is true of your age that it is
material, earthy, grovelling; that its thoughts and
aspirations have been earth-bound; that it is unspiritual,
without lofty aspirations, without deep spiritual insight,
without active faith in spirit-life and intercourse. You
can draw the contrast for yourself. In pointing it out
we do not exalt Egyptian religion, save tq show you
that what seems to you so earthy and vile was, in some
of its aspects, a living faith, powerful in daily life, and
possessing deep spiritual wisdom.
\Yes, in a way, no doubt. li seems that so much may
be said for every form of faith. They are all man's
groping after immortality, and vary in degree of truth
according to his enlightenment. But you are hardly fair
to this age. No doubt there is a deal of Materialism, but
there is also a deal of striving to avoid it. Few are
Materialists from choice. And if ever there were a time
when thought about religion and God, and the hereafter.,
might be said to be rife, it is now. It seems to me that
your strictures would suit better a bygone age of apathy
than one ivhich is at least awalce and alive to the mo¬
mentous questions on which you speak.]
It mqy be. There is, as you say, much tendency to
look into these matters ; and where that exists there is
hope. But there is also a strong desire to exclude all
reference to spirit as a factor in human existence : to
refer all to matter, and crush out all seeking into spirit
intercourse and the spirit life as at least unpractical, if
not unreal and delusive. It is, perhaps, necessary that
the temper of your age should take its tone from the
peculiar religious epoch through which you are passing.
The transition state that intervenes between one form
of faith and its successor, is necessarily one of convul¬
sion. The old is fading, and the new is not yet clear.
Man must pass through this, and it has a tendency to
distort his vision.
[Yes. Things seem in a fluidic state, shifting, and
obscure. Then, of course, there are many who do not
want to be disturbed. They resent being roused from
their dreams. And some have dealt with matter so long
that they cannot bear to think that after all it is only the
254
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Nov. 26, 1875
vail of spirit. But this does not affect my belief that no
age that I know of, short of that grand era in old Greece,
shows anything like the same active and intelligent seeking
into deep spiritual and natural truths.']
It is well that you think so; nor do we desire to
shake that opinion. We have but striven to show you
by a typical instance that there are truths hidden even
in those faiths which to you seem most gross and earthy.
[/ suppose the Jewish Lawgiver, “ learned in all the
wisdom of the Egyptians,” incorporated a good deal of it
into his code.]
Yes, indeed. The ceremony of circumcision was
borrowed from the Egyptian mysteries. All the cere¬
monial purifications of the Jewish temple were borrowed
from Egypt. From the same source came the linen
dresses of the priests; the mystic cherubim that guarded
the mercy-seat: nay, the very idea of the Holy place,
and Holy of Holies, were but adaptations of the plan of
Egyptian temples. But Moses, skilled as he was in the
learning of the priests by whom he was trained, did
not in borrowing ritual, borrow also the spiritual ideas
which it typified. The grand doctrines of immortality
and spirit agency find no real place in his writings.
The destiny of spirit, as you know, he never alluded to.
The appearances of spirits are mere phenomenal mani¬
festations incidentally introduced, and the great doc¬
trine is untouched.
[Yes. The rite of Circumcision existed in Egypt before
the time of Moses ?]
Oh, yes. Bodies which were so religiously preserved
by them at a date previous to Abraham, and which
still exist among you, prove that, if you need proof.
[I did not know that. Did he borrow any articles of
faith ?]
The doctrine of the Trinity existed in Egypt as well
as in India. The Mosaic code reproduced much of the
minute character of Egyptian ritual without its spirit¬
uality.
[How comes it that such mines of knowledge as Egypt
had should be closed to us ? Confucius, Buddha, Moses,
Mohammed live. Why not Manes?]
He lives only in the effect he had on others. The
religion of Egypt was confined to a favoured class, and
was not sufficiently extended beyond the country to be
permanent. It was a religion confined to a priestly
sect, and it died with them. Its effects are seen in
other faiths.
[The idea of the Trinity, was it Indian or Egyptian ?]
The Trinity of Creative Power, Destructive Power,
and Mediatorial Power, existed in India as Brahm,
Siva, Yishnu; in Egypt as Osiris, Typhon, Horns.
There were many Trinities in Egyptian theology. The
same existed in Persia as Ormuzd, Ahriman, Mithra
(the Reconciler).
Different parts of Egypt had their different theo¬
logies. Pthah, the Supreme Father: Ra, the Sun-God,
manifestation of the Supreme : Amun, the Unknown
God, were all various manifestations of the God-idea.
[/ thought you said that Osiris, Isis, Horus, made the
Egyptian Trinity.]
We did but put in Isis as the Productive principle—
Osiris, Creator; Isis, Principle of Fecundity; Horus,
son of Osiris and Isis. There were many develop¬
ments of the idea of the Trinity. It is not important,
save that it bears upon the broad question.
[Then did Egypt get its religion from India ?]
Partly : but on that point we have no one who can
speak. Pbudens.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
As a member of the Psychological Society, who joined it at its
formation, chiefly for the reason that it seemed to promise a syste¬
matic, business-like, and trustworthy investigation of the alleged
phenomena of Spiritualism, I was much interested in those remarks
of the learned President in his annual address the other day, which
referred to this part of the programme. Two courses were open to
the society with reference to these phenomena. One was to say,
“ We deal only with admitted facts ; the facts on which Spiritualism
purports to be based are not admitted, and we are not a tribunal
proper to try the question of' their reality.” The other and wider
view of its functions would include the verification of facts which
promised to throw so strong a light on the field of its inquiries;
and this would perhaps involve the appointment of a committee for
investigation, and some expense. Mr. Serjeant Cox evidently con¬
templates some mode of dealing with the subject, for he says,
speaking of it, “ Ask us to apply such tests, and offer to us such
evidence, and the society will gladly try the truth of any asserted
phenomena without prejudice, and report upon them honestly. . . .
The asserted facts and phenomena will indeed be entitled to, and
will receive, a fair examination in common with all other facts and
phenomena relating to psychology.” (Spiritualist, Nov. 19.) The
allusion to “ tests ” would seem to point to an original investiga¬
tion with mediums, and I do not know whether inferior evidence,
such as the reception of statements, written or oral, to be tested by
the cross-examination of the persons making them, would be ad¬
missible. As all “ hearsay ” would, of course, be rigorously ex¬
cluded, narratives of personal experience, accompanied in all cases
by submission to the most searching cross-examination, might re¬
sult in the collection of a body of evidence which ‘.could be recog¬
nised as respectable, if not conclusive'; and the flaws in many a
fair-seeming narrative on paper would become apparent.
Serjeant Cox, as we know from his published writings, and as
may be gathered from his language on this occasion, admits
the reality of “an extensive and important class of mental
and psychical phenomena ” upon which, he chooses to
assume, Spiritualists base their belief in extra-mundane
causation. The phenomena—such as materialisation and direct
writing—as to which any other hypothesis seems extravagant and
gratuitous, if not impossible, he altogether ignores. Perhaps he
would say that he does so for the very reason that they are, even if
true, not mental and psychical, and therefore not within the province
of a psychological society. But he will probably not deny that the
connection of these facts, if established, with the mental and
psychical phenomena, and their bearing upon them are so important
that to investigate the latter without reference to the former is
hardly a philosophical method of proceeding. I do not myself
believe that any useful or scientific result will ensue from such a
division of the subject. If we touch it at all, let us go into it
thoroughly. Last Thursday evening our president announced that
the Council had determined upon a discussion, at our next meeting,
of Professor Tyndall’s article on Materialism in the Fortnightly.
He spoke of a “ challenge,” I forget whether it was that Professor
Tyndall had challenged us, or that we were to challenge Professor
-Tyndall. In either case the antagonism of Psychology to
Materialism was treated as a foregone conclusion. Well, if this is
to be our attitude I cannot better connect it with the foregoing
remarks than by quoting a remarkable passage from the recent re¬
view, in the Spectator, of The Unseen Universe. “ As long as it is
possible to ignore all direct evidence for such a ivyorld [the spiritual]
so long will it be possible to declare all indirect evidence fallacious.
TEST SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE. .
There are three facts as to which I am ready, if desired, to give
my testimony before the Psychological Society, and to submit my¬
self to cross-examination at the experienced hands of its president,
and of any of its members. These facts are materialisation, the
independent voice, and direct. writing. As to the two former, a
long account of my experiences has been already admitted into
your columns; as to the latter, and some physical phenomena, I
will, if you please, lay before your readers an account of two
seances with Dr. Slade, of New York, which appeared to my simple
apprehension conclusive of the question of spirit agency.
My first visit to this medium was on the 7th September. I was
shown into a moderately-sized drawing-room, where I found Dr.
Slade, quite alone. It was mid-day, the sun was shining brightly,
and the light was admitted freely into the room. In the centre was
a small table with a cloth on. This cloth was removed, and I was
desired to examine the table and the room as much as I pleased. I
deferred more than a cursory examination of the table till I could
usefully direct my scrutiny by a knowledge of the character of the
manifestations. A glance round the room sufficed to assure me that
the medium was without visible assistants, of any sort. We took
our seats, I at the end of the table, Dr. Slade at the side. We did
not join hands, and, leaning back in my chair, I had a clear view of
his hands on the table and his feet on the floor. He was convulsed
in the usual way, and raps were heard almost immediately on the
floor and table ; a chair at the end of the table opposite to me was
thrown down; his own chair was drawn back, nearly from under
him. I asked that this might happen also to mine; it did, my chair
being moved back as I sat on it, several inches. All this time I
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
Nov. 26, 1875.
kept my eyes on Dr. Slade’s legs and feet, •with, an occasional glance
round to see that no one had entered the room, as I sat with my
hack to the door, about eight or ten feet off. Dr. Slade then said,
“ Allee, are you here ? ” and three raps on the table responded.
“ Allee,” he explained to me, was his late wife. He then produced
an ordinary school slate, wiped it clean, and handed it to me for
inspection; upon this he placed a morsel of pencil about one-eighth
of an inch long. He took the slate between the thumb and fingers
of his right hand, and placing his left hand on the table requested
me to hold it with both of mine. He then held the slate
under the table, • but so that I could see the wrist and part
of the hand holding it. Almost instantly we heard writing, and
on replacing the slate on tho table a sentence—I forget what—was
found written upon it. I then examined the under surface of the
table thoroughly, but discovered nothing suspicious. Several sen¬
tences were written in this way, the slate being cleaned after each,
and examined by me. Next, Dr. Slade’s arm appeared to be con¬
trolled, and holding the slate between his thumb on tho upper, and
two fingers under the lower surface, at arm’s length, he rested it
upon my head. Again, I heard the quick scratching sound of
writing, and the slate when taken off was found to have on it the
words, “ Now, do you believe ? ” They were on the centre of the
upper surface of the slate.
Having tormented myself sufficiently with suggestions of sup¬
pressed writing, chemical preparations in the cloth which wiped the
slate, and scratching with the finger nails to simulate the sound of
writing, I went again on the 14th October, in company with Ool.
Olcott and Mr. Algernon Joy. Dr. Slade, however, objected to
more than two at a time, so Col. Olcott and I sat with him without
Mr. Joy. This time I had provided two slates and a pencil, all of
which I purchased myself, and retained in my own possession till I
produced them for use. Ool. Olcott sat at the end of the table, Dr.
Slade next him at the side, I opposite Dr. Slade. The room
was brightly lighted with gas. “ Allee ” having announced her
presence by raps, I explained what I wished to bo done. My slates
were exactly of the same size, each being in a wooden frame, so that
when fitted together there was a space about half an inch deep
between the two. I asked for writing on one of the inner sur¬
faces, the slates being thus joined. Accordingly, the pencil
being placed between them, Dr. Slade held one corner of
the joined slates, and Col. Olcott another. The slates were held
off the table, but so that I could see them. Writing was
heard almost immediately, in answer to a question whether
I was mediumistic. “ He has some power, and can be influenced.
Allee.” was found written on the upper surface of the lower slate
on removing the top one. I have the slates, with the writing on
one of them, now in my possession. Dr. Slade then said that the
power was so strong that he believed writing could be obtained
without any contact. Accordingly, we asked that a slate should
simply be laid on the table before us, with a piece of pencil under
it, the medium not touching it. This was done; the sound of
scribbling was heard immediately; we turned over the slate, and
there was a written sentence. There were many physical mani¬
festations likewise, but I only notice the most remarkable. The
pencil was repeatedly taken off the slate and flung across the room,
the medium’s arm and hand holding the slate being in view. A
chair at my side of the table was flung down. I produced a tape
measure, and took the nearest distance between the medium and
the chair, as the latter lay on the floor. It was five feet, and I could
see a good clear space between the table and the prostrate chair. I
requested Dr. Slade not to stir, and asked that the chair, which lay
on my right, and whicn I could watch, as Col. Olcott sat on my
other side, might be picked up and placed by me. In a few
minutes, during which time the medium never moved, the chair
was drawn a few inches towards me, and, as I watched it and the
clear space between it and the table, medium, and everything else,
it was suddenly jumped upon its legs and deposited at my side.
The result, for me, is that the agency of volition, other than that
of the medium or of the circle, is a proved fact; and it is in this
sense,, and to this extent, that I avow myself a Spiritualist. That
some of the operators on the other side are human spirits seems
highly probable, if not demonstratively certain, from much of the
evidence. But of my own experience I doubt if I can say this.
That all these manifestations are caused by the departed spirits of
the dead has been said to be the Spiritualist theory par excellence.
Certainly I do not accept this. Enough for my present purpose
that there are organisms, normally invisible to, and intangible by,
our ordinary senses, informed by intelligence, derivative or original,
and able, under certain conditions, and in a variety of ways, to
communicate with us and to manifest their existence.
4, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, Nov. 22nd.
The “ Harrison Testimonial Fund ” is steadily increasing, as
will be seen on reference to our advertising pages.
The Provincial Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists,- appointed for the purpose of presenting a scheme
to the Council for making known and carrying out the objects
of the Association in the provinces, has hold its first sitting,
and will meet again on Wednesday, December 1st, at six o’clock.
Country members and friends, London local and provincial
societies, are invited to send in suggestions to the secretary, for
the consideration of the committee at its next meeting.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In continuation of our report of the proceedings of the National
Conference of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-street, we now
append the paper read under the presidency of Mr. J. Lament, by
Mr. Thomas Blyton, on Thursday, November 4th, 1875:—
THE NECESSITY FOE COMBINED ACTION AMONGST SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,—It is doubtless a fach
which few Spiritualists will controvert that we need more extended#
associative effort in our midst, and, until the establishment of the
“ British National Association of Spiritualists,” there was not the
amount of combined action which is so essential to the welfare of
the cause we have at heart. (Applause.) The primary object of
this paper is therefore to impress upon all who have satisfied them¬
selves of the truth of spirit communion,- the necessity’ of putting
into practice the principles of association, so as to more effectually
spread a knowledge of Spiritualism amongst all classes, and to
withstand the assaults of our opponents.
OPPOSITION TO UNITED FRIENDLY ACTION.
The causes which have hitherto mitigated against successful
organisation are not so very difficult to trace, especially in this
country, as the chief cause fs due in a great measure to the preva¬
lence of misconceptions as to the true character of the work of
national organisation. Another reason is to be found in the fact
that all reliable information upon the subject has been studiously
suppressed by one of the weekly’ Spiritualist newspapers, a course
of action which is to be the more regretted, inasmuch as it tends
to mislead its readers. Both of these causes could be easily re¬
moved by judicious measures on the part of the National Associa¬
tion, and it is be hoped that attention will be directed thereto; such
a course will help to strengthen the bond of union already existing,
and which is capable of being considerably extended in the poorer
districts in the provinces, where the want of information is most
needed.
THE WORK OF AN ORGANISATION.
Organisation to be successful should perform a useful and prac¬
tical work, in which each individual member may take some part
most suited to his abilities; therefore the interests of Spiritualists
throughout the country should be utilised by making the interests
of the. Association those of all Spiritualists, so far as practicable.
As upon one cause may follow another, so the various local societies
scattered over England have, in consequence of prevailing miscon¬
ceptions, withheld from entering into alliance with the Association,
to which there are, however, a few excellent exceptions. It would
therefore be well, perhaps, to point out here the advantages which
would accrue if each local society were to ally itself with the repre¬
sentative one. Such a policy would, in the first place, leave each
society as free as before in its mode of government and action, with
the privilege of appointing a representative from its own members
to a seat upon the Council of the National Association, so as to
give the local society a voice in any matter which might affect its
interests. In the event of it being found desirable to consider, the
opinions of British Spiritualists upon any urgent and important
questions, there would then exist the ready means of calling them
together in conference in their respective localities; and, the reso¬
lutions passed at such conferences being forwarded to the central
representative organisation, such measures could be adopted as the
nature of the case might demand, with the concurrent approval of
British Spiritualists, and without unnecessary loss of time. The
“Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,” which has
done me the honour to appoint me as their Representative at tliis
Conference, has hitherto ■ refrained, from purely technical reasons,
from entering into an alliance; although I sincerely trust that tho
time may not be far distant when it will resolve, with other societies
in a similar position, to enter into friendly relations with the
National Association, and so aid in consolidating the movement in
thil country.
The necessity for combined action amongst Spiritualists will be
found in the many useful results which follow, and perhaps it may
not be considered beyond the province of this paper to suggest a
few ideas which might be carried out with benefit to our cause. I
would suggest that good lecturers be supplied with diagrams and
apparatus to illustrate their subjects ; that they be employed by the
Association to lecture in various parts of the country, as opportu¬
nities may offer; and that such lectures be rendered popular by
illustration or other attractive means, which, with the most logical
deductions from well-ascertained facts, will help to render the philo¬
sophy of Spiritualism better understood by the masses of the people.
Such lecturer^ might also act as “ travelling representatives ” of tho
Association, to afford general information, and circulate pamphlet?
and circulars. Local representatives or agents might also be ap¬
pointed in those districts where no allied society may exist, and who
would make it their duty to further the interests of the Association
in their immediate neighbourhood.
The publication and diffusion of good and cheap literature should
bo another aim of our National Association. Let the very best
works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects be published in an at¬
tractive and popular form. It might be tried as an experiment, and
probably with some chance of success from a financial point of view,
to issue some works in a serial form, weekly or monthly, and at a
price to enable the poorest individual to thus obtain copies of the
256
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 26, 1875.
choicest works on Spiritualism. Such a plan is adopted by many of
our largest publishers of light literature, as well of instructive
matter, and it would without doubt bo one of the best means of
making Spiritualist literature a hundred times more popular, and of
greater service to Spiritualism than it is at the present time. To do.
this an advance of capital is certainly necessary, but there are pro¬
bably very many supporters of Spiritualism who would gladly
advance sufficient for the purpose.
Frequent social meetings, such as are already in operation,
are also valuable, as affording opportunities to Spiritualists to
become better acquainted with each other and to exchange
kindly words. "Free seances and branch circles might be
established, to which members of the Association should be
admitted; while the results of such seances should be carefully
recorded, and printed from time to time for general circulation.
The reading of approved papers upon various phases of Spirit¬
ualism, as has recently been determiaed upon, will be an interesting
and instructive feature to most Spiritualists; while, for the benefit
of those members who from various reasons are prevented from
attending, such papers should be printed and circulated.
THE STRENGTH RESULTING FROM UNION.
With unity of action amongst Spiritualists it will be less difficult
to protect the movement from opponents, both from within and
from the outside of our ranks. I say opponents from “ within,”
because it is unfortunately too apparent that the progress of Spirit¬
ualism at times suffers most severely from the injudicious conduct
of professing Spiritualists, doing more harm than our sceptical but
sometimes more honest opponents. Spiritualists, united in a well-
organised body, will gain .increased power in withstanding the
assaults of those of our opponents who deny—principally because
their ordinary experience does not admit—such facts as the experi¬
ence of Spiritualists has verified. We shall henceforth be far more
successful in favourably influencing society, than we were without
a recognised representative national organisation to express the
matured thoughts of British Spiritualists. An individual may
perform the work of an association, institution, or society, but,
without taking counsel from duly appointed representatives through¬
out the country, cannot be said to express other than an individual
opinion; but in the case of a national association, with its accredited
representatives, it may be truly said that it expresses the “ voice of
the nation”—at least so far as Spiritualism is concerned. It is
therefore gratifying to know that there is encouraging evidence of
the Association growing stronger .and stronger, in proportion to the
extent to which the misconceptions of its character are cleared
away; and, as it is very probable that an important future lies
before this organisation, it is to be hoped that all true Spiritualists
will feel the necessity for combined action, and, as far as it may lie
in their power, will support the important work which the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists” has so ably mapped out.
(Applause.)
Mr. Galloway, of Newcastle, suggested that a committee should
be appointed to take one or more halls for Sunday afternoon meet¬
ings, admission to which should be free to working men; if there
were no entry fees they would have no objection to attend, neither
at that time in the day would the persons who belonged to churches
and chapels.
Mr. Humphreys said that he thought that Spiritualism would prove
to be a bulwark against Materialism on the one side and gross super¬
stition on the other. He thought that Mr. Ashman, in the remarks
he had made, did not actually mean what several persons seemed to
think he did; he thought that Mr. Ashman merely meant to say—
Why did not the Association take halls in which working men could
speak to each other, since they were best able to accommodate
themselves to each other’s ideas, and to spread Spiritualism in their
own ranks f (Applause.) In teaching Euclid to boys he had found
that ho could not make more than four out of six boys learn a problem
by the same mode of teaching; ho had to vary his mode of teaching
in order to get the knowledge into the heads of the other two boys.
He thought that Mr. Galloway’s plan would be a most effective
one, and that it might be well to see whether his suggestion could
not be carried out.
Mr. Chant said that there were many good theories which could
not be carried out in practice. In theory he was a Conmiunist.
The theory was beautiful, but could not be carried out because
mankind was not in a fit state to adopt it.
Mr. Coates said that many meritorious persons were recognised
as of a superior order, namely, those who were God’s noblemen
in deed and in truth. Spiritualism did not recognise differences
between orders. Let every man give what knowledge he could to
those below him, and receive what he could from those above him;
each could afford to teach his fellows and to be taught himself.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that not only had there been, so far as the
supply of news to some of the poorer Spiritualists was concerned,
a suppression of information in relation to the National Association,
but there had been strong misrepresentations : and he had noticed
that the very arguments used against the Association in these
misrepresentations were the same that had been endorsed
by the speakers at that meeting. The misrepresentations
had set forth that associated effort was necessary amongst
Spiritualists, and as he and his brother members had united for
the purpose of building up the movement, the argument sup¬
ported their case. The most free union on the face of the earth
was represented in the Constitution of the United States; of neces¬
sity that union involved organisation founded upon a plan ; it was
a definite association for specific ends. Taking Spiritualism in
England, the same idea had been carried out in the same way; the
friends had united upon a broad platform to carry out public aims,
and ends, and purposes; the utmost amount of freedom was given
to everybody, and every member was placed on terms of equality,
according to the rules of the organisation. The lessons Spiritualism
had just learned in France and in America, and in the unscrupulous
attacks made upon it by outsiders at home,-were evidences that it
was the duty of English Spiritualists to unite; .they had accordingly
done so under a constitution which gave no scope to personal
ambition. It was clear that it was high time to have combined
action amongst Spiritualists as a body.
Mr. Noyes began to speak upon what he said was a mistranslation
of the word Elohim in the Bible, but the chairman ruled that ho was
out of order.
Dr. Clark said that he was interested in the subject of organisa¬
tions, and that he had joined many for some years past. The first
attempt to organise British Spiritualists was made by Mr. Burns,
Dr. McLeod, and others, but they soon began to quarrel among
themselves. A n organisation should be formed for some definite special
object. If the Association sent lecturers about, they would speak
against things in which a certain number of other Spiritualists
believed, for theories were numerous, so the truths of Spiritualism
should be separated from the opinions of the lecturers. Some
years ago an organisation in Glasgow did good work; it hold pub¬
lic meetings bn the Green, and its speakers delivered lectures in
Glasgow and neighbouring towns ; but the difficulty the speakers
found was this—the public said, “ It is all very well for you to tell
us that you have seen these things, but we want to see them also,”
so the truth could be most spread by good, honest, reliable
mediums.
Mr. T. Shorter said that he believed very much in work done by
self-appointed committees of one; he liked concerted action, yet
saw good in individual action, in every man doing the work which
lay before him. He took special interest in spreading Spiritualism
among working men, and he had worked in their midst as hard as
ever Mr. Ashman had done; he further had taken office in many
of their societies. He thought that no class so much as workingmen
needed that consolation and support which Spiritualism could give.
Mr. Ashman said that he withdrew anything he had said which
had given rise to misconception. (Applause.) He had laboured
for six years among working men, and he wanted to know where
halls could be found now in which the working classes could speak
on the subject of Spiritualism.
Mr. Morse proposed a vote of thanks to the speakers and to the
chairman; after which the proceedings were adjourned until the
next day. .
THE RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
On Friday morning, Nov. 5th, the Conference was resumed.
Mr. Martin B. Smith, who occupied the chair, said:—The sub¬
ject for our consideration this afternoon is “ Spiritualism Consi¬
dered as a Beligious Influence.” I know of nothing connected
with Spiritualism which, interests me more, or which I consider
more worthy of earnest consideration. If Spiritualism is not to
have in all its phases a distinct influence upon our moral natures,
hence upon what we call “ our religion,” I should abandon it at
once as an unprofitable study. (Applause.) I believe, however,
that it is destined at no distant time to regenerate and to revivify
existing forms of religion, if not indeed to give birth to an entirely
new phase of religious thought. I will not detain you by any
remarks of my own, but will call on those gentlemen who have
contributed papers on the subject at once to proceed to read them.
MR. E. T. BENNETT ON THE IMPORTANCE OF THE DISSEMINATION
OF SPIRITUALISM AS A RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE.
Mr. E. T. Bennett then read the following paper :—
It will hardly be denied that in the existing state of society there
is great need of a religious influence which shall powerfully affect
its daily life. The large majority of the people may be divided into
three great' classes :—
1. Those who, belonging to some church, taking part in public
worship, leading straightforward and upright lives, and being
respectable members of the community, would yet utterly ridicule
any one who would advocate their business being carried on accord¬
ing to the principles of the religion they profess on Sundays, and
would consider the attempt an insane one to harmonise the law of
the land with the maxims of the New Testament. This class, to
which the bulk of the middle classes of the country, belong, are to a
great and increasing extent practical infidels as regards the religion
they profess to believe in.
2. Those who are entirely given over to the selfish and animal
propensities of their nature, many of whom are so circumstanced
that all their thought and energy are absorbed in the struggle for
existence, in providing a supply of food and clothing for themselves
and those dependent upon them. To this class belong thousands
of the labouring population, and those large masses both in town
and country who are living in a whirlpool of poverty, vice, and
crime.
3. Those who are intelligent disbelievers in revealed religion. In
Nov. 26, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
257
this class we would include all those who avow this disbelief, from
those in .the highest literary and scientific circles down to the artiz'an
who conscientiously rejects the teaching of the day. In this class are
included the large and increasing number who call themselves
secularists.
These three classes may be said to live lives of practical irreligion;
that is, their daily lives and actions, their thoughts and feelings, are
not influenced by any ideas respecting a life succeeding this earthly
one, or by what are ordinarily called religious considerations.
We are not condemning them, nor wishing to imply that they are
guilty in this, but simply state it as a fact. To them life means
earthly life, and nothing more.
In none of these classes does the religion of the land—the so-
called Christian religion—exercise an appreciable effect, and to all
appearance its powerlessness to do so is becoming more apparent
every day.
The plain simple truth is, that the Christian religion, as taught in
churches and chapels, is divorced from the laws of the land, and
from the maxims and principles of the greater part of modern
society; and there is no other influence of sufficient power to
elevate its life above the purely intellectual, the outward, and the
earthly.
Possibly there may be nothing to lament in this. But those who
believe that earthly death is not the end of life will hardly think so.
If there is a long life before us after death—if this mortal life is
only a small portion of our actual life—it must be of use to us to
know it; and, knowing it, it must be of still greater use to know
all we can as to the nature and conditions of this future life, and its
relation to our present state of being; and, most important of all,
to know how that future life is affected by the present life. Once
convince people that death is only a door out of this life into another,
and they cannot help inquiring into the relation between the two
lives.
The whole of the popular religious teaching respecting any future
life is of so vague and intangible a character that it is looked upon
as a dream beside the so-called realities of outer life. It fails to
affect the life or character, because there is not an actual belief in
its being of as real a nature as the present life.
Hence the great need there is of a revelation from the future life,
of a practical, tangible character, not dependent on traditions of the
past, but able to take its place side by side with the thought and
action of to-day—a revelation which shall have as its base facts and
phenomena appreciable by the external senses of the multitude, both
learned and unlearned.
We believe Spiritualism to be such a revelation of the future life.
Its foundation is, that it presents facts and phenomena which prove
to demonstration that what we call death is simply, as we have said,
a door into another life, and that the inhabitants of the earth who
pass through it still find themselves in possession of conscious,
individual existence. This is the first step; but this step once taken,
this conviction once attained, is sufficient of itself to awaken those
feelings, so difficult to define, which we call religious.
The inquiry is soon inevitably made—What relation does the life
on this side of death bear to the life on the other side ? It is im¬
portant here to keep in mind that our information in answer to this
question rests on a second series of facts and phenomena logically
dependant on the first series of facts and phenomena.
The first series of facts and phenomena proves to us the existence
of intelligent beings who are living a different life to our present
one. The second shows us the relation which exists between the
kind of life in which those intelligent beings are living, and our
life here. They assert that they were once living as we are now,
and their universal testimony is, that the state after death is better
or worse, according to that which has been the ruling principle of
life while here. If that principle has been love, purity—leading to
the “fruits of the spirit”—they tell us that their life is of a higher,
purer, more enjoyable kind than if, on the other hand, the ruling
principle has been such as to lead to hatred, vice, and the fulfilment
of the “lusts of the flesh.”
Convince people of this—convince them that we have absolute
grounds for telling them that this will certainly be so—and we
have a religious power in our hands, before which all the power of
traditional religion, derived from the past, is as nothing.
We can now go to the man of science and learning, and tell him
that, starting from his own foundation of facts and logic, we are
able to prove to him the reality of a world which he has hitherto
ignored and disbelieved in.
We can now go to the man whose life is devoted to external pur¬
suits and ambitions, whose ideas are bounded by external aims,
and convince him that all those things in which his thoughts are
centred are very small by the side of the realities of the future
life.
We can now go to the sensual man, and show him the conse¬
quences of a life here lived in the courses which he is pursuing,
convincing him not that he will be punished for his wickedness,
not that he will come under the wrath of a powerful being, but
that, as he sows here, so he will reap hereafter; that as are the
tastes, pursuits, and companions which he encourages here, so will
be his surroundings there; and that the time will come when he
will be tired of husks and turn round and long for a morsel of the
true bread of life.
We can go to the secularist; and here perhaps will our greatest
victories be won. We have no need to argue with him about the
power, and attributes, or even the existence of a God. We can
afford, so to speak, to give him all he asks for in his philosophy of
negation. By so doing we shall almost disarm him. But we can
take his own “ sad gospel,” and show him its falsity.
The National Reformer announced the death of one well-known
as a modern secularist in the following most mournful words:—
“ In memoriam. Gone before. Austin Holyoake. Died April
10th, 1874. Aged 47 years.
“ This world is the Nurse of all we know;
This world is the Mother of all we feel;
And the coming of Death is a fearful blow
To a brain unencompassed with nerves of steel.”
It is useless, and it is folly, to shut our eyes to the fact that this
“ sad gospel” is making its way among society, and that not among
the bad and the vicious, but among good, true, earnest men and
women, who are perhaps exercisng as much influence as any class
in the land on the thought of the future and on social and political
destiny.
On his death-bed Mr. Holyoako said: “ I do not believe in the
Christian Deity, nor in any form of so-called supernatural exist¬
ence. ... I experience the most perfect mental repose, and the
near approach of death—the grim king of terrors—gives me not
the slightest alarm.”
Charles Bradlaugh says: “ To me the Word of God represents
nothing. I do not know what it means. I do not know even in
thought where to put God.” Again : “ I do not conceive of spirit
or mind as an existence.” Again : “ Show me that my doctrine is
false, and you will compel me to abandon it. I do not say that I
shall be ready to concede the falsity. Prove me the falsity, and I
must abandon the position.”
These are not the words of bad men or of vicious men, but of
earnest seekers after fight and truth. But upon such men as these
no traditional religion, no religion that founds its claims to accept¬
ance upon the past, can have any influence.
Now Spiritualism comes. We will entirely leave out of the ques¬
tion whether there be a God or not; we will even admit that
Spiritualism may fail to afford proo/-of His existence; we will admit
that that question is, maybe, far above all we know of Spiritualism,
as Spiritualism is above Materialism. But we are able to say to
these people: We, as well as you, see that which you call the
universe. We are in a position to prove to you that being and life
are immensely wider than your conception of them; that this
visible life is only a fraction of your and of our real life; that after
what wo both call death, we wake into a life of conscious individu¬
ality, with as real surroundings as we possess here. We are also
in a position to show to you, that, whether or not what we call the
“ right ” has its reward here, it is infinitely rewarded in the coming
life, by the nature of the conditions and surroundings in which the
individual finds himself placed. We do not ask you to believe this
as a religion, but to search into the evidences in its favour as a fact.
The serious acceptance of the truths of Spiritualism is in this
way calculated to exercise a religious influence on the life and cha¬
racter, and to have a most important effect on the religious thought
of the people.
It is for those who in any degree realise this importance to see
that, so far as they can, they aid in that influence being of a refining
and elevating character, both on themselves and on those with whom
they associate. There are but few labourers in the vineyard yet.
Perhaps the soil is not fully prepared. But we may hope that
when the proper time comes they will be ready to go forth, bap¬
tized by the spirit of love and wisdom, to preach to the people these
“ glad tidings of great joy.”
MU. MORSE OH THE RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. J. J. Morse next read the following paper:—
Mu. President and Members of this Conference :—Per¬
sonally realising the necessity of calling into active operation all
the higher and nobler sentiments in humanity at large, and feeling,
too, that modern Spiritualism is eminently calculated to effect that
result—when interpreted and applied to the true nature of man—
I feel this Conference has acted wisely in asking for papers upon
“The Importance of Disseminating Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence,” since our future depends upon our ability to realise the
“ higher law ” of Spiritualism, and the placing of it before the
world for its consideration.
Our cause presents two aspects, viz., the practical and the theore¬
tical. The first dealing with fact and experiment; the second deal¬
ing with theory and speculation. Each is a necessity to the other.
Both give vitality to our movement. The “facts” of Spiritualism
are not, in the estimation of your essayist, simply restricted to the
.phenomenal intercourse between our world and the world of
spirits, but comprise the problems of existence past, present, and
to come, and point to and interpret the evolution of the spiritual
in nature and humanity among all races and at all periods of the
world’s history; also, it would seem, that the theories of Spirit¬
ualism are not to be restricted to those that concern the after life
alone, but that have, also, a direct and positive bearing upon the
social, religfcms, and governmental economics of this world’s people
as well. Submitting this broad view of our cause as the true one,
it must be readily admitted that it is of the utmost importance that
it be disseminated as a “ religious influence ” throughout the com¬
munity. An attempt to define Spiritualism as a “ religious influ-
258
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 26, 1875.
fni’o ” is beset with danger and difficulty. Danger, insomuch as if
any given interpretation is announced as final, we shall but imitate
churchianic example, and bequeath a creel to posterity; difficulty,
because the idea of a “religious influence ” is too often associated
with dogmatic authority. In fact, the word religion finds so little
favour with advanced thinkers to-day, since its utterance often but
serves to conjure up images of creeds, dogmas, persecutions, and
hypocrisy, that it is suggested by your essayist that we leave it to
the churches, and adopt the term “ Spiritual ” for our purpose.
Dew who are acquainted with the labours of Ooombe, Spurzheim,
Gall, Fowler, Wells, and other phrenological and physiological re¬
formers and writers, will deny the great advantage which the race
has realised from their labours, or the immense benefits a know¬
ledge of our physical natures has brought us, as seen in many
saved from injurious physical practices and their evil results ; and
never, since the days of ancient Sparta, have physical health and
cultivation received the consideration now bestowed upon them. The
full success thus obtained is attributable to but one reason, and that
is a practical realisation of an aphorism of a certain learned writer
who said: “First get your facts, then trace out their laws, and then
live in harmony therewith.” Mental science has advanced with
rapid strides also, and physicians, and metaphysicians, have accu¬
mulated a mass of facts in that department, of inestimable value to
the world in general, and mental science in particular. When we
consider the almost incalculable value of an accurately adjusted
physical life, alike to the individual and the world, as seen in the
improved physique, added health and extended longevity of those
who live in harmony with physiological laws; and see how in
the domain of the intellect, a more complete understanding of
mental phenomena, and the laws governing their evolution, has, on
the one hand, enabled us to more successfully treat cerebral dis¬
orders ; and, on the other hand, has, from the days of Bacon down¬
wards, assisted in reducing the processes -of ratiocination to the
nearest possible approximation to absolute logical sequence, con¬
tributing thereby to positive gain and advancement in philosophy^
we can indeed say with truth that knowledge is power, and a blessing
likewise.
Thus it will bo noted that the facts pertaining to these two branches
of human life that have been educed, and the systems built thereon,
have aided the world at large, and no one will deny the necessity
of disseminating such teachings as Educational Influences among
all classes. As there is another department to man’s life and
conduct, which shall bo denominated the Spiritual, which has
its necessary brain organs, with their appropriate functions, would
not the understanding of the facts pertaining to that department of
our natures, with the tracing out of the laws governing their opera¬
tions, be followed with results equally as beneficial in their nature
as a similar course of action has been in the two directions already
noticed ? Your essayist claims that no existent system—or past
one either, save one to be mentioned yet—has ever dealt in a
satisfactory or scientific manner with this question. And the
result has been a small amount of actual knowledge in regard to
the real character of the spiritual nature in man, and a vast ambunt
of superstition and false theology concerning his duties and destiny.
The system that is capable of solving the problems of the spiritual
in man correctly, and removing the baneful influences mentioned
is modern Spiritualism, and it alone can successfully accomplish
the work.
It deals with the facts which pertain to the human spirit while
here and when disembodied. And, as it deals with pact, its posi¬
tion in this matter is just as secure, and its results will be just as
beneficial, as are those taken by, and flowing from, the two sciences
already noticed. The knowledge obtained by our observers of the
nature and requirements of the spiritual nature, with the laws
governing it, enables Spiritualism to successfully instruct mankind
in the principles of probity, duty, and spiritual culture. The
religious, or, as I prefer to term it, spiritual influence thus dissemi¬
nated, will be more certain in its action, lasting in character, and
beneficial in results, to the world at large, than the existing
theologies of the day; for, whereas they are but imperfectly related
to our true spiritual needs, our own system is based upon facts,
and an understanding of the laws in regard thereto. Thus we are
able to build up a moral and spiritual teaching, based upon the
known nature ol the agent that is to receive it, at once evidencing
its value thereto, as tending to make the recipient wise, moral, and
spiritual, frpm an intelligent understanding of his own spiritual
nature and needs, combined with a clear perception that the law of
life pointed to by our teachings is the wisest, highest, and purest.
Our nation needs such teaching; many crying vices and evils
abound. To check them is worse than useless, since they but
retreat from one point to reappear at another. Absolute knowledge
can alone help us in our need. It will aid us to remove causes,
thereby preventing the effects now operating. While reconstructing
our ideas of morality and ethics upon a purer basis—inspire in us a
deeper reverence therefor. Therefore, as all these results are
beneficent beyond conception, and as it is here claimed Spiritualism
alone can produce them, it is submitted that it is of the utmost
importance that Spiritualism be disseminated as a religious (or, as
I prefer it, an educational and spiritual) influence. *
[This report of the proceedings of the Conference will be con¬
tinued next week. Mr. Morse’s paper was followed by one by
Mrs. Parkes on the same subject.)
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE FOUNDER OF THE
QUAKER SECT.
One of those lives requiring to bo re-written by the
light of the Spiritual phenomena, is that of George
Fox, the founder of Quakerism, a typical specimen of
that class of persons open to occult influence irresistibly
impelling them to utterance of passionate words and
ideas which come not, they aver, from their own minds.
This influence, “ alike mysterious and intense,” appear¬
ing to Fox and to some among his hearers, divine illumi¬
nation, was doubtless the secret of his power in spite of
the extreme absurdity of many of his notions, to thrill
and impress minds immeasurably above his own.
Cromwell listened to him with emotion, and bade him
return when warned and admonished by him at
Whitehall.
The outward signs which in some cases are the con¬
comitants of invisible influence, manifested themselves
strongly in the person and presence of George Fox.
Among such it is related that in early youth he fell into
a trance which lasted fourteen days; that when he
recovered, his body seemed to have been altered and new
moulded. That at a meeting at Mansfield, when he
prayed, the house appeared to be shaken, and some re¬
marked that it was as in the days of old when the house
was shaken where the apostles were. He himself, when
“ moved by the spirit,” trembled like an aspen leaf.
The founder of Quakerism was in fact a quaking
medium. From this quaking it evidently was that his
sect acquired its name. The account, indeed, given by
his latest biographer, Mr. Selby, of the origin of the
term Quaker, is that “ Gervas Bennett, one of the
magistrates who committed Fox, was admonished by
him to quake at the name of the Lord, when Bennett
replied that he (Fox) might rather quake at the civil
authorities, a repartee which, going abroad among the
multitude, occasioned Fox and his adherents to be
called contemptuously quakers.” But seeing that in¬
stead of quaking at the civil authorities they constantlv
defied them, this derivation is hardly satisfactory, while
on the other hand, the name of Quaker would be
appropriately applied to a preacher who quaked when he
poured forth, and would naturally be extended to his
followers. Trembling has in all times been noted as an
effect of influence supposed to be divine. In those
legends of ancient Rome, so admirably thrown into
verse by Lord Macaulay, Capys is described as trem¬
bling when seized with the prophetic spirit at the
approach of the future founder of Rome :—
“ In the hall-gate sate Capys,
Capys, the sightless seer;
From head to foot he trembled,
When Romulus drew near.”
Just as in ancient times fervid outpourings from per¬
sons under mystic influence were supposed to be inspired
by the Gods, so in the present day they are apt to b«
taken for illumination from the Third Person of the
Trinity; at the time of the attempted revival last year
one of the secretaries of the London diocese, in a speech
delivered to the assembled clergy in the presence of the
Bishop, gave it as the result of his experience “ that it
is not necessary that the missionary should bo a preacher
of ability, for he must feel so entirely that he is a mere
channel of the Holy Ghost that he need not mind what
he says.”
Until the true character of this much misappre¬
hended influence is clearly discerned and generally
Nov. 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
259
understood, it will doubtless continue to give rise to
new religious views, to sects such as Quakerism, and in
the present day that of Mr. Harris in America.
J. H. D.
THE APPEARANCE OF A SPIRIT' THROUGH
MR. HOME’S MEDIUMSHIP.
BY BABBABA HONYWOOD.
I it The Spiritualist of October 22nd, an English bar¬
rister, in speaking of his sittings with Mrs. Huntoon,
says that she is the only medium, except Mrs. Stewart
of Terre Haute, who sits outside the cabinet while
materialisations are formed inside. Some years back, at
Mr. S. C. Hall’s, while Mr. Home, standing in front of the
curtain (on our side) grasped it with one hand, six out
of seven persons present, including myself, saw the bust
of a female with a mutch or frilled cap on; she slowly
passed and repassed the upper portion of the curtains,
on the opposite side from Mr. Home. Lord Lindsay said
that it appeared to him to be the fresh, red wrinkled
face of an old woman. Mr. S. C. Hall recognised the
face also. To me it seemed to be the face of a pale woman
with a frilled cap on, and a dark blue shawl thrown
over her head and shoulders; her eyes were closed, so
that I observed to Mr. S. C. Hall, “ I cannot see her
eyes.” Later on he told me the lady was blind in
earth-life. It was a bright moonlight night in summer,
and there were gaslights in Ashley-place; there were
only muslin curtains at the windows, and the light
streamed in, in long bright rays from left to right.
Observe that the rays from the face I saw streamed from
right to left, meeting the light from the window. The
face to me appeared to be of the colour of the moon, rays
issued from the cap upwards, and from the face side¬
ways, which struck me forcibly, and I pointed it out to
my neighbour Capt. S—, who said he saw the face as
I saw it. A lady present said that she saw a brilliant
cross on the chest, as well as rays of light, but the then
Countess of Pomdr, the nearest to the curtain, saw only
a large bright cross; all the others described a female
face and bust. Mr. S. C. Hall asked that the name of
the spirit might be given, and it was rapped out. This
he asked for as a test to confirm his own conviction.
The form passed slowly above the opening of the cur¬
tain into the room, and then repassed, but disappeared
rapidly when a lady screamed; after an interval it
reappeared, and slowly passed back towards the window.
Cannes, November 20th.
WINTER MEETINGS OF SPIRITUALISTS IN LONDON
THB TRUSTWORTHINESS OP SPIRITUAL MESSAGES AND
MANIFESTATIONS.
Last Monday night the first of a series of winter meetings of the
members of the National Association of Spiritualists was held at
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., under the presidency of
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-law.
The Chairman said that as he had been suddenly invited to pre¬
side, he did so with some hesitation, but he would endeavour to
make an opening speech on the subjects selected for consideration
that evening. Two subjects had been chosen, the one as to the
reliability of the communications from the spirit world, and the
other as to the personal identity of the spirits who gave them. The
Bible, he said, spoke of “ lying spirits,” and there was hardly any
other subject surrounded by so many difficulties as the one now
under consideration. He accepted few of the utterances of trance
speakers, in consequence of the doubts to which he was about to
give utterance. The question was—Were the communications
reliable or not; his own experience, and he had had a great deal for
years in his own house, led him to say that the messages were
not reliable in the majority of instances. Some years ago he was
at a stance, in the house of Mr. Serjeant Cox; Mrs. Guppy was
the medium, and at her own request she was put through very
rigorous tests; she was thoroughly searched in another room by
ladies; she was put into another dress, and was finally clothed in
Mr. Serjeant Cox’s inverness. While this was being done, Ser¬
jeant Cox’s drawing-room was searched as thoroughly as if he had
been an accomplice. The members of the circle—one of whom
was Mr. Crookes, if he remembered rightly—then sat with their
hands joined, in the dark. A large quantity of flowers immedi¬
ately began to fall upon the table, and many of them did not come
from that part of the room in which the medium was sitting.
Thus this extraordinary person possessed some power by which
flowers were brought into a closed room. There was no possibility
of any imposture in the matter, and the question remained, who
brought the flowers ? Somebody asked, “ Where were they
brought from ?” and it was replied by raps that they had been
brought from “ the front conservatory of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
house at Hendon.” “ But,” said Serjeant Cox, “ there is no
front conservatory there.” Among the flowers which came
were some which must have been missed had they been
growing in anybody’s conservatory, and on subsequent examination
it became quite clear that they had not been brought from Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s country house. What he- (the Chairman) wished to
call attention to, was the absurdity of the lie being told, even from
the point of view of a thoroughly untruthful person. So far as he
had seen, an objectless waste of power in telling lies characterised
a large proportion of spiritual communications. Why was this ?
Was it that the messages came from very inferior beings who
surrounded particular individuals ? Circumstances such as these
very much opposed the progress of Spiritualism. Once spirit
messages were firmly believed in in America, so that trading compa¬
nies, and even banks, had been founded in consequence of the
contents of such messages, the result being that the mortals who so
acted soon discovered that they had been wofully deceived. Through
the mediumship of his own wife—who was better known to many
present by the name of Kate Fox—he sometimes had wonderfully
reliable messages, but he found that when she went to other
seances the messages became unreliable, and continued to be untruth¬
ful for several days afterwards; the influences seemed to cling to her.
The persons present at circles influenced the communications very
much, a fact which the Buddhists understood ages ago. If pure com¬
munications were wanted, the medium must be purified and kept
away from all worldly influences; until this was done, he believed
that no reliable messages would be obtained, except under excep¬
tional circumstances. This might seem to be a harsh judgment on
his part, but it was brought home to his own mind by hard experi¬
ence, and he believed that those who had most experience in the"
subject would give the same testimony.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Next came the question of identity. Of course that depended
very much for its establishment upon the communication received;
for instance, if he telegraphed lies from America, the recipient of
the message could not see him or tell who he was, so would have to
judge entirely from the contents of the message received. Every¬
body present knew how the John Kings and Katies and Peters, so
plentiful at spirit circles, said false and exceedingly absurd
things; they almost always responded in the way which the ques¬
tioner desired, to questions put. A very kind young friend of his
wife was always asking the spirits at her seances about a lover.
The spirits gave her a great many negatives, but at last they said
“ Yes,” he was present. They did not say this through the
organism of Mrs. Jencken, but by raps; this reply had been
forced by the sitter. Gould not answers of this kind, elicited by
leading questions, be escaped from at spirit circles generally ? In
his own experience, extending over many years, he had had three
or four tests of spirit identity, which had satisfied him. One was a
communication written in German through the hand of his wife
while her other hand was writing in English. In the first place his
wife knew nothing of German, and in the second place the message
detailed familiar matters connected with Ms father which
had transpired many years before they were married,
and which could not have been in the mind of the medium; it fol¬
lowed, therefore, that that message must have been given by some¬
body who knew his father in life, and who told an untruth,
supposing he falsely asserted himself to be that father. But
then there was a moral tone about the message. He did not say
that.this quite satisfied him, but altogether he thought that it was
really Ms father who commumcated on that occasion. In spirit
photography proofs of spirit identity were to be found. Sham
ghost pictures had been largely manufactured, but there were some
wMch had not been artificially manufactured, and the selection of
one genmne one was enough to suit Ms purpose. He possessed ofae
of the early spirit photographs of the late Mrs. Livermore, taken
long ago, in the presence of Mrs. Jencken. Those who obtained it
went to a photographer who had never seen them before, gave
wrong names, and by examining the processes, took precautions
against fraud; they obtained an absolute likeness of the late Mrs.
Livermore, wife of the well-known New York banker; the deceased
was altogether unknown to the photographer. The likeness of Mrs.
Livermore overshadowed that of the sitter in such a way that
experienced photographers testified that it was not produced by
double exposure or by double printing. TMs seemed to him to be
very nearly proof of the identity of the spirit, for the evidence of
a photograph was in a court of law often strong enough to condemn
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 26, 1875.
a man who had committed a crime. He would next speak of the
production of materialised spirit forms in the presence of
a medium, and would select one case only, although he had
many in his memory. The sitting took place in a dark
room; a spirit appeared bearing no resemblance to the
medium, and it brought its own light. Its features perfectly
resembled the person as she appeared when on earth, but
upon being touched the form was less warm. Light from a dark
lantern in the room was, by permission, thrown on the face
of the spirit, which was then seen to gradually melt away; it
was also seen that the likeness was perfect. Now what being,
except the person believed to have appeared, could be supposed to
have taken the trouble to so closely imitate a real spirit that she
could be recognised by her husband ? He thought that was evidence
of the return of Mrs. Livermore for a short time to earth; he could
not conceive of any artistic and deceiving power being able to build
up such a form. And how were those forms built up ? Benjamin
Franklin appeared in the same circle and melted away in a luminous
cloud. He said, “ I will show you how we form.” He then formed
,a part of his face and a part of his head, so that the latter looked
like a part of a mask. It seemed as if they clothed themselves with
some of the wonderful aura of the medium, and thus made them¬
selves visible. Was it some deceiver who did this, or the real
spirit ? If he were upon the bench he should rule that the identity
was proved, for he did not see^how to escape the evidence.
(Applause.)
Mr. Alexander Oalder remarked: I wish you had spoken on the
subject of the reliability of clairvoyance.
Mr. Jencken replied that he had taken the objective phenomena
of Spiritualism because they would give clearer evidence of truth.
In the case of clairvoyance and of trance they did not know to
what extent the brain of the medium coloured the communications.
His wife sometimes left her body and travelled in her sleep; raps
would often wake him and tell him to bring her back by waking
her up. When his wife first passed into a trance she saw ordinary
spirits; then she passed into another and deeper phase in which the
whole of the landscape and spiritual surroundings were altered,
then she would pass into a third phase, in which everything was
again changed,and until she reached what he, for want of abetter
term, might call the third heaven, he never felt any confidence in
the reliability of the communications. In those deeper stages of
trance she would read whole pages out of books in the spirit-
land;- in her visions she frequently saw a lotus flower,, which
opened its leaves, and inside she saw written communications. The
messages thus given never proved to be untrue; they never varied
in the slightest degree from truth. The first time he discovered this
the facts struck him very much. Mr. Home sometimes passed into
the same state. He first had ordinary trances, but as he sank
deeper and deeper in the trance-state he received higher and better
communications. He (Mr. Jencken) thought that ordinary trance-
speakers on platforms were surrounded by such conditions that
they could not pass deeply enough into the trance-state to give the
most perfect messages; consequently he believed that their utter¬
ances were a mixture of the thoughts of the medium and the thoughts
of the spirit, and that would explain how the statements of that
wonderful speaker, Mrs. Tappan, who gave forth such beautiful
ideas, were commonly mixed with a singular amount of looseness
and vagueness.
Baron Holmfeld said that many French Spiritualists referred
most of the phenomena of Spiritualism to the action of a certain
fluid: and another theory was that the spirit-world was a world of
causes, and our world the world of effects; that if the conditions
existed in the spiritual world for bringing about particular results,
those results were sure to become manifest in our external
world. The fluidical theory seemed to him the more materialistic
of the two.
Mr. J encken said that he had been put in the chair to open the
discussion, and not to talk about theories; ho had, however,
attempted to form a theory for himself, which he would briefly
explain. He thought that there were several spiritual realms, and
that the spiritual phenomena were produced upon their boundaries;
that the conditions under which these phenomena were produced
were of a spiritual and mental nature so strange that no language
could express the causes thereof.
Baron Holmfeld said that it was usual to admit the reality of
this world and of a spiritual world, but that if more were imported,
inquirers would find themselves in a kind of mess.
Dr. Hallock remarked that Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken was one of the
instruments of his conversion to Spiritualism, and he thought that
she would recollect him very well. Before any spirit could be
recognised he thought that the spirit should be a person who was
known to the inquirer in life, for it was impossible to identify
historical characters, because even if such were present their history
might have been picked up from a biographical dictionary. His
first wife, and his father and mother, he believed he had identified
perfectly. Once a pair of hands was placed in his which he knew
perfectly well; they were those of a mechanic; the phenomenon was
accompanied by a communication full of the peculiarities of his
father’s mode of speech, and upon a subject with which no mortal
but his father and himself were acquainted. On another occasion
he saw his first wife and his mother, also a young girl; the latter he
did not know. His mother was dressed as in me, in the dress
used by the members of the Society of Friends. He watched her
for some time, she melted into a cloud, and was gone. Afterwards
one thing troubled him, and that was, Who was the girl ? An
inquirer into Spiritualism called upon him next day from the
country; he was a clergyman, and they went together to one of the
sittings of the Fox family. His friend obtained a great deal; then
he (Dr. Hallock) asked whether the girl was present who had mani¬
fested on the previous day. “ Yes,” was the reply, and afterwards
she gave her name “Elizabeth,” and said that she was his sister.
He insisted that there was a mistake somewhere, and that he never
had a sister of the name of Elizabeth; but the spirit persisted that
she was right. Some time afterwards, by searching the family
Bible, he discovered that when his mother was in Poughkeepsie she
had had a daughter who lived but three months, and that daughter,
whom he had never seen, was named Elizabeth.
Mr. Harrison said that for many years he had seen much of the
John Kings, Katies, and Peters who manifest through physical
mediums; in no one case had they proved their identity, and when
the same spirit was questioned at long intervals of time, the
statements often differed entirely from those made previously.
What was the meaning of this untruthfulness, and who were the
spirits who were responsible for the same, if they were not the
spirits of the departed relatives of the sitters ? Mr. Williams had
told him the other evening that although he had been a medium for
so many years, holding seances constantly, he had never obtained
any communication from any departed friend of his own.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory said that she awoke one morning and
saw her departed sister sitting at the foot of the bed, dressed in
grey. She looked at her dearly-loved sister a second time, and she
was gone.
Dr. Hallock said that he did not think the unreliability of the
communications was always due to premeditated fraud on the part
of the spirits; ho thought they were sometimes jokes, sometimes
satires, and sometimes given to prevent the listeners from taking
for granted everything that comes from the other world. As a
physician, he had found that when, having exhausted everything
that medical skill could suggest to relievo patients from dangerous
ailments, he went to a medium to know what to do, he generally
obtained the information he wanted, and he thought it was because
the purpose and the motive with which he went to the medium
sanctified the question; but he never acted on the information thus
obtained without first submitting the matter to the crucible of his
own judgment.
Mr. G. E. Tapp said that the identity question was the most im¬
portant at the present moment that could be raised in connection
with Spiritualism. Platform speakers upon Spiritualism, who had
had little experience of the actual facts connected therewith, often
said to the public, “ Only become Spiritualists, and you will come
into communication with your departed friends.” But the result of
protracted research in this direction was usually discouraging. At
the large number of seances he had attended, he had never put
leading questions, never asked for anybody or anything, and no
spirit had ever manifested who professed to be known to him.
Sometimes entire faces and forms had been presented by spirits.
Among them he had seen remarkable faces, which had in no way
appertained to the “ human form divine; ” the sitters sometimes
said to these, “ Are you my uncle so and so ? ” and the busts or the
faces often said, “ Yes.” Eecently he had seen in the Spiritual
periodicals startling statements about recognised spirits, and he
wished that those who alleged that they had seen them had attended
to give their evidence on the point, for enthusiastic or unreliable
witnesses often kept back some essential fact which might prove or
disprove the whole. More especially was this the case when the
light had been so bad that nobody could see anything clearly, and
sitters were left to exercise their imaginations. Colonel Olcott’s
book was a clever and most entertaining work, yet the amount of
real evidence was small, for only in one short sentence, which
might be overlooked, did he state the primary and damaging fact
that the light was so bad at the Eddy seances that the majority of
the sitters could not recognise anything at all. He thought that
many Spiritualistic friends of an imaginative nature professed to
see things which in reality they did not see, although they believed
they did.
Baron Holmfeld said that one advantage of the unreliability of
the communications was that they were not so likely to destroy the
independence of thought of Spiritualists, but forced them to
exercise their judgment over every manifestation.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that he had had more than six years’ ex¬
perience in Spiritualism, and his difficulty had not been so much
to prove the identity of spirits, as to get into communication with
his own relatives. He had only had messages from two of these,
his father and his mother, but their identity had been satis¬
factorily proved to his own mind. In his own case he
found the statements of his spirits to be very reliable. The
identity of his own chief controlling spirits was a matter of difficulty
to him, still he had no question about their being real persons.
When unreliable communications were given, he did-not think they
always arose from vicious intentions on the part of spirits. He was
once at the house of Mr. William Crookes, and whilst Mr. Selwood
was the medium, a communication was given by raps professing to
come from a lady in India, who said that she had died in giving birth
to a child. Six or eight days afterwards the mail came in, and it
was discovered that she was alive and well, but he (Mr. Morse)
believed when the communication began, that it was sent to say
Nov. 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
the lady was dead, and perhaps this opinion of his might have in¬
terwoven itself into the message. Once Mr. Crookes had a message
that his brother, Mr. Walter Crookes, was killed, and was being
carried home, shortly after which his brother walked in alive and
well. How to explain such facts as these he did not know.
Mr. Harrison said that after only a year or two’s experience, he
temporarily adopted Dr. Hallock’s hypothesis that untruthful
messages were given for the reasons stated, and not maliciously;
since then he had known several cases of the invention of scandals
out of malice by mediums and their spirits,_ and of desperate at¬
tempts on the part of mediums to ruin each other out of jealousy.
Further, certain mediums, like Von Vleck in America, had gone
about the country exhibiting genuine manifestations as imposture
or conjurors’ tricks, and as the spirits produced the manifestations,
under the circumstances it was difficult to think they could possibly
do so from any high or holy purpose. It was a curious thing that
some spirits would help their mediums in imposture.
Dr. Hallock said that' from information he had gained at a
circle at the house of Judge Edmonds, of New York, he was
sure that the sitters ought to remain passive; if they did not
receive quietly what was offered, but passed instead into an argu¬
mentative tone of mind, or tried to force particular replies, the
messages became untrustworthy.
Mr. George King said that he had been much annoyed by the
communications which he had received. As long as nothing came
but generalities, in some cases the sentiments expressed had been
beautiful, but no test of identity was ever given.
Dr. Hallock said that the messages were not more silly than
would be given by men and women still in the body, and as spirits
were disembodied mortals, we had no right to expect them to give
messages above the average. Once he had thought that nothing in
the shape of evil could throw its shadow upon this life from the
spirit world, and it was only after some years’ experience in these
facts that he knew that evil as well as good could be imparted.
Mr. Charles Hunt said that if others than Spiritualists had
been present at that meeting they would have thought that
all from the chairman downwards were a pretty lot of people.
In the case of the seance at Serjeant Cox’s, where there was
so much searching and everybody was suspecting everybody
else, how could truthful communications be expected in such
an unspiritual atmosphere; where people were thus suspicious
of one another, what wonder that lying spirits should obtain
power? All the conditions were present to bring untruth rather
than truth. He, at other circles, had seen much of the same kind of
thing, where every man was in such a low moral state that he
suspected his neighbour of playing tricks, therefore no good could
come. Ho was first converted to Spiritualism by a spirit who came
to him and gave his name as George Osborne, and asked for his
forgiveness. George Osborne was in reality the name of a preacher
whom he had known about twenty-five years ago, and who had
once done him an injury.
Mr. Morse replied that Mr. Hunt ought to think the tone of that
meeting a very high one, for experienced persons were facing their
difficulties, stating theminamanly way,and trying to overcome them.
Miss Kislingbury said that that was one of the objects of the
meeting. Only members were admitted; they were therefore not
in the attitude of believers against disbelievers, and consequently in¬
terior questions connected with the movement could be discussed,
which could not with advantage be published to the outside world.
Mr. King said that he considered the publication of such debates
was just what was wanted to raise the character of Spiritualism.
The outside public thought that Spiritualists would believe any
rubbish given through the lips of trance-mediums or otherwise, so
long as it purported to come from the spirits, and it ought to be made
known that there u ere those in the movement who possessed critical
power of investigation, and who were not fanatical enthusiasts.
Mr. A. Calder narrated how Miss Fowler in the trance had given
him the name of Emma Lindsay, the maiden name of his departed
wife, how she described her appearance when bn earth, told how
they had been married twenty years, had lived in India, described
some of his wife’s ailments, mentioned the names of three of their
servants, and gave other particulars.
Mr. Tapp said that the same medium had correctly narrated to
him the events of his past life.
Mr. Morse, Mr. Newbould, and Mr. E. D. Rogers all gave evi¬
dence to similar experiences in their own case.
Mr. Jencken said that he and others, who were largely experi¬
enced in the actual facts of Spiritualism, did not want to utterly
overturn the faith of those who had less; they only contended that
a large proportion of the communications were unreliable, and that
in one case at least home conditions had tended to make them more
reliable. Once the spirits told Miss Ogden that her mother would
arrive in Liverpool from America on a particular day, and by a
particular ship; this afterwards proved to be true, and it was an
important case, because it showed that they could bring real
information about what was taking place at a distance.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
The usual monthly conversazione or the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists will take place on Wednesday evening next,
December 1st, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. The charge
for admission has been reduced to Is., and a goodly gathering of
friends is expected. Refreshments at 6.30 p.m.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
Ox Thursday night last week the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society was held at 11, Chandos-street,
Cavendish-square. Mr.' Serjeant Cox presided.
Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary secretary, read the minutes of
the last meeting, which were then confirmed.
CALIGRAPHY AS A TEST OF CHARACTER.
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., read a paper entitled, “ Caligraphy as
a Test of Character.” He stated that the character of an individual
was more or less displayed by the tone of his voice, his gestures,
his manner of walking, and so on, but more especially by his hand¬
writing. As the handwriting was the result of the discipline of a
bodily organ under the impulse of the soul, it was but natural to
expect to find in the result a reflection of the character of the mind,
and he believed that this was so in reality, more especially ■ as no
two handwritings could be found exactly alike, whilst few bore any
resemblance at all to each other. Not only was the nature of hand¬
writing influenced by the mind, but by other conditions, such, for
instance, as the state of the bodily frame. Copper-plate handwrit¬
ing he regarded as the standard, so far as England was concerned,
and it might be noted that persons with very little originality of
mind followed very closely the copper-plate type, as in the case of
law copying clerks, so that in the results of their work little indi¬
cation of character could be found. They imitated the ideal before
them, just as children imitated very closely the copy set before them
by the master; but as individuality began to grow so did the hand¬
writing change. Men who wrote effeminately had almost always
an effeminate mind, and a lady he knew, who wrote a masculine
hand, had been aptly described as “ a man in woman’s clothes.”
Steadiness or changeability of character, he argued, was indicated
by steadiness or changeability of handwriting, in other words, if a
man changed his moods from day to day, a corresponding change
was to be found in his writing. The author further asserted that
the moral, rather than the intellectual, character was generally indi¬
cated by the handwriting. He illustrated his remarks by calling
attention to specimens of the handwriting of the Duke of Welling¬
ton, Napoleon I., and other well-known men whose characters are
also matters of history.
Mr. Hales said that it had been an»amusing as well as an in¬
teresting paper, and he wondered that the author had not mentioned
Lord Palmerston, who surrounded with humour every subject upon
which he spoke; consequently Mr. Harris ought to have been able
to show what effect that trait had upon his writing. As Mr. Harris
had said that people’s character could be detected by their writing,
he felt more upon his trial than most people, still he thought that
if a man’s conscience were clear he need not trouble much about
his handwriting. Some people, when once they had formed their
handwriting, never afterwards deviated from their original style.
Up to the age of twenty-five or thirty he (Mr. Hales) wrote very
much as he did when he first left school, but since then he had
completely changed his style of writing—signature and all—three
times, so that people would not be able to recognise the one when
compared with the other. At the outset he thought it would be a
difficult thing to do, but he made up his mind to do it, and the
change he had made in his writing had been of great service to
him. Once he used to write with the tops of the letters leaning to
the left hand as engrossers do; next he wrote with the tops of the
letters to the right. Again he altered his writing, and now made
no bows to the bottom of any of the letters; he was not aware
that he had undergone analogous mental or moral changes.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Browning said that persons who alleged that they could tell
characters from letters, were guided not only by the writing but by
the composition and contents of the documents, just as physiogno¬
mists judged of the intelligence of a man by his forehead, and of
his moral character by the mouth, for intelligence and moral cha¬
racter were two very different things. (Hear, hear.) He then ex¬
hibited a letter written "by Hans Christian Andersen, saying that
he had known him personally for many years, and that there was
no man in Europe who showed such distinguishing signs of genius
in every way; also that his private character was equal to his
public reputation. His friends had said that he was vain, but all
human beings had their faults. When Andersen was a boy of
fourteen he had not a farthing in his pocket, yet he resolved that
he would be a great man, and it might be that a slight touch of
vanity aided him in his upward career. The speaker further ex¬
hibited a letter written by Napoleon III.
Professor Leoni Levi said that he had collected a large number of
photographs, and had endeavoured to classify the persons repre¬
sented according to the professions .which they followed; for in¬
stance, he placed all the men of science in one group, all the poets
in another, all the statesmen in a third, and so on, and he hoped
thus to have been able to find certain distinguishing characteristics
belonging to each, but he found great difficulty in his attempt to
arrive at anything definite or worthy of being called a law. He
had photographs of all the members present at one of the meetings
of the British Association, and although there were distinguishing
characteristics about the features of the most prominent men, the
rest had nothing to differentiate them from the great mass of the
public, perhaps because they were “ ordinary members ’’ in every
sense of the word. (Laughter.) He thought that by examining
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 26, 1875,
photographs it was easier to tell differences in moral rather than in
intellectual character. Once he took the trouble to ask a large
number of teachers in schools, to what extent they influenced the
children in the formation of their characters, and he discovered that
teachers have much influence in forming both the character and
handwriting of each of their pupils. He wished that the author of
the paper had collected information as to how far long fingers or
thick fingers caused differences in handwriting. Would a long
fingered poet write the same as the thick-fingered George Stevenson
who lived a life of action? He should like to have such questions
as these examined, for at present he was very much at sea. (Ap¬
plause.)
Dr. Bithell said that he had been in the habit of teaching writing
and inspecting writers for more than a quarter of a century, and
he had noticed that handwriting was more frequently a test of the
mental and moral character of the teacher than of the pupil who
wrote it; consequently he thought that the habits of schoolmasters
were more deeply impressed in writing than those of the youths
under their tuition. The handwriting of ladies was light; he did
not think that this was due to lightness of fingers, but to the cir¬
cumstance that they copied the models set before them; it was
true that on the other hand the same fact might be adduced to
prove the tractability of ladies was displayed in their handwriting,
so that the latter set forth their moral rather than intellectual traits
He saw great difficulty in evolving any principle from the facts
brought forward that evening; they did not take him down to the
solid rock of nature so as to give him a foundation upon which he
could build definite knowledge. In short, nothing had been
brought forward that evening from which anybody could form any
deduction whatever; he consequently felt dissatisfied at having
doubts thrown on his previous experience, when nothing definite
was given to him in place thereof. (Applause.)
The Chairman remarked that he had a few words to say upon
the subject, but before doing so would announce that the Council
had resolved that the next meeting of the society should be devoted
to the discussion of Professor Tyndall’s article on Materialism,
published in the last number of the Fortnightly Review. Professor
Tyndall had argued that human beings were little better than
material automata, a position which the Psychological Society
disputed, so that it would accept the challenge which he had thrown
down. The society invited all who were interested in the subject
to attend. To return to the questions connected with caligraphy,
he coincided very much with what had been said by Dr. Bithell,
and he thought that the reader of the paper should have brought
forward some definite principle. He (the Chairman), had read
much upon caligraphy and wished to learn some principle in rela¬
tion thereto, but had discovered none in the paper; for instance,
the specimens of Writing to which attention had been called differed
from each other without any attempt being made to enunciate a
general law explaining why they varied. Prom time to time the
general character of a man’s handwriting was liable to vary more
than his signature; in all cases time modified his writing. If an
expert were to examine the various specimens of writing done by
Mr. Hale, he would discover certain characteristics which were the
same in all, and would detect the writer, although to a person who
examined the documents casually they would appear to be entirely
different. Let a. person attempt to forge handwriting, he
might be able to do so in one or two words, but not in
a whole page, as he, Serjeant Cox, knew from experience,
since he often had to deal with such questions. In a whole page
little details would be sure to betray the real writer. As all the
mechanical actions of man were the result of the action of his soul,
it was clear that they must bear some relation to his character, and
as souls differed, so also must the modes by which they expressed
themselves. Circumstances, he thought, modified the general
character of handwriting; it was true that* one begins by writing
a school-boy hand, but he did not think that the handwriting of the
schoolmaster influenced that of the after-life; the schoolmaster
might have influenced the form, but not the expression. After
leaving the schoolmaster, the handwriting usually took a character
of its own through pressure. When a man wanted to begin to
write quickly he first formed a running hand, and from that
time the character of the handwriting was changed alto¬
gether; the circumstances under which this was done had
great influence on the handwriting of the after-life. An
impulsive man had a desire to write fast, and a slow man to
write deliberately. The press writer had to write against time, so
his handwriting usually grew smaller and smaller, and gave in no
way any indication of his character. He doubted whether the moral
character was shown much by the handwriting, but he thought that
the emotional character was more clearly indicated. Lord Brougham
was an impetuous man, consequently he wrote with marvellous
rapidity,'so that his writing was almost unreadable; few men had
such a rapid flow of ideas as Lord Brougham; had he been a
slower man he would have written more distinctly. He (the Chair¬
man) thought they had come to no conclusion that evening. Almost
all ladies wrote alike, and as they were more emotional than men,
one would expect to find their emotions marked in their handwriting,
whereas there was no indication of the kind there at all.
Mr. C. C. Massey asked what course the discussion on Material¬
ism at the forthcoming meeting would take. Would a paper be read
on the subject ? If information were published upon this point
before the meeting came off it would be useful.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he thought there would be no'paper on
the subject, although perhaps some brief ^statement might be made
setting forth the nature of Professor Tyndall’s arguments in favour
of Materialism. If there were a paper on the subject it would be
a very brief one, and it would be well, as the last speakerjhad said,
that the course which the meeting would take should be announced
beforehand.
SPIRITUALISM AND BROAD CHURCHISM.
The Rev. Mr. Colley, Curate of Portsmouth, in a recent sermon
on Heaven, is reported to have said as follows :—
“ I shall be forced to use the hideous word hell somewhat
frequently to-night, by way of contrast to the happier term that
indicates the subject under consideration. Therefore let me at the
outset remark that my notion of it is not the old Papal or Puritan
picture of fire and brimstone, literal chemical compounds that an
all-loving Father has somewhere stored up for proper, use upon
certain rebellious of His children, who for the error of a few short
years must suffer the torments of hell to all eternity. This, thank
God, is not my view of hell when I use the term. The word is an old
Saxon one that simply means a place covered over and hid. Hence,
when you have bruised your elbow and got a sore for your want of
care, it is said to ‘ heal,’" cover over, heal or hell up. The heel of
your foot is a derivative from the same root; it is that part which
is lowest, and covered by the weight of your body upon it. Hence,
Swedenborg localises the place hell (according to undeveloped states)
in the heel of the ‘ Grand Man.’ So hell, in the sense I shall speak of it
to-night, is a place covered over, and hidden, and lowest in the
economy of things; a prison, or dark dungeon if you will; for a
wicked man dying in the love of his wickedness, cannot fling about
in the other life as he did in this. He is under discipline that entails
punishment to whip the devil out of him if possible. The purgatory
of the Romanist, fabulous, as it is, is nearer to the truth than the
unthinking, popular view of the matter, which is awful and idiotic,
while the same lunatic view of heaven provokes huge laughter; •
for when we muse on our eternal homes, and would gladly study
the geography of our promised rest, let us not vainly imagine that
heaven is beyond the sun, above the circuit of the stars, but let us
call to mind Christ’s words when he said, ‘ The kingdom of God
cometh not with observation; neither do men say, Lo here, or Lo
there; for the kingdom of God is within you.’ The spiritual world
is here; the spheres of heaven or the zones of hell are within. The
faculties of the soul are asleep, and we cannot see the forces that
are round about us until we wake to the other life:—
‘ For this world I deem but a beautiful dream,
Of shadows which are not what they seem;
Where visions rise, giving dim surmise
Of things that shall meet our waking eyes.’
For when souls from the world of souls are sent down here, they
are swaddled in the flesh, and put to sleep. But in the awaking
once more to the higher life, we shall remember our pre-existence
and look back to earth as a child does to its cradle, and life above
with this below will be all of one piece, with but a seam, scarce
visible, that separated, in our incarnation here, the infinite past from
the infinite future. For do you not know that dreamless sleep is
really soul-wakefulness, and that in the hours of slumber the spirit
is in the active operation of its other life ? I sleep to-night after
the labour Of to-day’s hard doings, and my soul carries on the thread
of things attempted and but poorly done, and brings them to holy
issues in the life that is mine when this is over. So then, I, at
what you call death, expect to see the results of soul-labour deftly
accomplished in the hours of sleep. I expect to meet spirit friends,
whose acquaintance has thus unconsciously been found when the
worn body has been deep entranced in slumber and wrapped in
repose. I expect to see my eternal habitation, built as I have been
building it from the scaffolding of this earthly framework—yea, to
see it furnished with the ornaments that subtle thought has fabri¬
cated, and fancy spun, and human knowledge and experience have
solidly contributed. I expect to see all I desire to see, and I shall
see all that I am fitted to see, and know all I am prepared to know,
and enjoy all I have the capacity to enjoy. Death to me, therefore,
is simply the gate of life—“ mors fauna vitae ”—the second volume
in the romance of life—the re-issue of existence—a new edition of
things, better bound, and more richly illuminated. It is an ascent
in the scale of being; it is a matriculation to the university of the
skies after the lower-form experience in the school of affliction and
discipline here.
‘ Between two worlds life hovers like a star,
Twixt night and morn, upon the horizon’s verge;
How little do we know that which we are,
How less what we may be.
When bodily awake we are spiritually asleep, and cannot see the
eternal wonders that surround us. We are the inhabitants of two
worlds at the same time. The spiritual world is here, and the
natural is ohly the outer crust or envelope of the hidden spiritual;
the visible veiling the shrouded invisible that reposes within. For
even light and magnetism, the most subtle of all elements, are said
to be but the finer coverings of still finer spiritual substances—the
soft linings of other forms. Indeed, wherever there is a germ, or
plant, or blossom, or flower, or fruit, or any living creature, there is
the rough cast of some spiritual form. For not the smallest flower
can grow on earth without a fa,r diviner flower in heaven, whose
Nov. 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
roots are here, but whose ripe fruits are there, upon the spiritual
side of things substantial. Indeed, there’s not a daisy peeping
forth at spring-tide and dying ere the June, but knows itself to be
the outcome of that' spirit-world, fringing the near confines of
matter, time and space, whereunto we are tethered for a little while.
So wherever there is a man, there surrounding are the spheres of
blessedness or zones of misery, and heaven or hell reposes or
rankles within. Hence the nearness of the spiritual world, and the
close contiguity of heaven with the good and hell with the bad are
facts that reason and sound theology do daily concur to teach. Light
travels at the rate of nearly two hundred thousand miles a second,
and yet so vast is God’s visible creation that at this inconceivable
speed light from some of the remote stars would fail to reach our
earth in two million years. And what a weary journey would that
be for the immortal spirit were its abode beyond the confines of
created things, deep in the infinitude of boundless space. But it is
not so. It is not ‘ Lo here or Lo there, for the kingdom of God is
within you,’ around you, about you, and separated from you only
by a thin veil of matter, which the eye of the spirit sometimes, as
in the case of the prophets and apostles, and seers clairvoyant may
pierce. Our footfalls are at all times on the threshold of another
life, and the boundaries of this and the unseen world meet in one.
* The kingdom of God is within you,’ or the kingdom of darkness
is there.
SUNDAY SEEVICES AT THE CLEVELAND HALL.
On Sunday evening last the third of a course of four lectures
was delivered by Mr. J. J. Morse, in the trance state, at the Cleveland
Hall, Cleveland-street. Mr. Desmond Eitz-Gerald, who read a
chapter from the Old Testament, presided over the meeting, which
was well attended. A hymn was sung, and Mr. Morse, then under
control, offered up a prayer, after which he discoursed upon
the “ Spiritual nature of the Future Life.” He said that no specula¬
tion which the human mind took upon itself to consider was more
fertile in its resources than that which lies immediately beyond the
ordinary perceptions in this state of existence, namely, the Spiritual
world and the disembodied spirits living therein. Every man, more
or less, entertained his own idea of an ideal life, to which he would
wish to ascend when he crossed the borders that divide this life
from the one beyond; and in endeavouring to ascertain his inner
conception of that life, it would be found, when unbiassed by theolo¬
gical teachings, that that conception partook of his natural and
intellectual nature, which was indeed practically the same when he
left the body, so far as his (the spirit’s) experience in that
world had led him to believe. Admitting that various degrees of in¬
tellectual and spiritual endowments existed, it was a natural conse¬
quence that the spirits of those to whom they belonged must be
provided with positions to which each was adapted; for instance, in
placing ignorant persons in the society of others who were much in
advance of them in wisdom and knowledge, a feeling of uneasiness
and inharmony would necessarily prevail, and -in the same way,
if the spiritually ignorant were to be placed amongst those who
were in a higher class of spiritual existence, the punishment in¬
flicted thereby would be unbearable; therefore, in order to avoid
the possibility of their being hustled into a state not suited for
them, it was necessary that there must be a first condition, which
condition might be called the borderland stretching between the
actually natural and the actually spiritual, the continuity of the
whole being progressive through all its experiences. These ex¬
periences were of a threefold nature, namely, the desire for spiritual
knowledge, the accumulation of that knowledge, and the dis¬
tribution of the same when acquired. Thus there were
three separate stages through which the spirit passed, each of
them including in itself the three distinct developments which
were actually represented, and involved in the three faculties
of accumulation, acquisition, and distribution, and which,
when continually repeated, resulted in universal progression,
effecting a thorough and complete revolution of the soul and
its attributes, combined with the advancement of each individual,
as designed by an all-wise and all-powerful beneficent Creator of
love and good. These three natures being also of this earth,
though subordinate in character, it was clear that they were not
sufficiently understood, or men would not live such lives of degra¬
dation as they did at present, did they realise the reality of the
divine harmony of God in their natures; neither if they recog¬
nised the grandeur of the designs as displayed by Him, would they
submit to be the spiritual slaves they were now. Leading a life of
purity and truth, and making strong efforts to alter all these
things would be the only way to depopulate the border-land, which
stretched between the two worlds, and bring about a higher state of
progression when the spirit entered the life beyond the grave.
Men’s aims then should be noble, grand, and good, so that they
might act as ministering angels to the prostrated sufferers in the
primary stage of development. It was to be hoped that men would
soon begin to feel the spirituality of their natures, so that at all
times they might rise above the level of the world, and that, when
the clouds hung over their heads the darkest, they might be assured
that there was that within them which should triumph over all
adverse circumstances, and which would fit them to enter into the
highest possible stage of spirituality in the future life. He pro¬
posed to deal next Sunday evening with the subject, “ The Divine
Trinities, their natures and relations.” The singing of another
hymn brought the meeting to a close.
^rubtnctai fietog.
DAELINGTON.
NEW PHYSICAL MEDIA IN DARLINGTON.
Last Thursday evening the third and last seance to be given by
the North-road mediums for the benefit of the Darlington Society
of Spiritualists, towards lighting and warming the lecture and
seance room, 1, Mount-street, Yalley-street, during the winter
months, came off with marked success.
Not having taken an active part in Spiritualism for several
months past I felt a wish to be present at the above-mentioned
seance for the special purpose of observing the progress being
made in this district. Before the sitting commenced I found from
inquiry that the two former seances had been very successful, the
sitters experiencing all the phenomena that the development of the
mediums permitted, with the entire absence of the uncertainty that
so often occurs in the presence of a promiscuous gathering. The
second seance exhibited an additional feature most encouraging to
the mediums, the actual distribution of about half a dozen very
large pears, unusually large (two of which are still retained by
very intimate friends of mine) under the same test conditions that
I shall proceed briefly to record as they occurred when I was pre¬
sent last Thursday evening.
The circle complete comprised sixteen; both sexes were very
evenly balanced. Mr. D. Eichmond acted as director. He first
closed and locked the door, keeping the key in his possession. All
being seated and ready, each joining hands, one medium at one end
and another at the opposite terminus, all seated in half moon form
before a curtained cabinet in one corner of the room; a third
medium who usually enters the cabinet at this stage of the pro¬
ceedings divested himself of his coat and entered the cabinet, which
was very carefully examined before he entered. The lights were
then put out. We did not wait long before the bell began to ring
and float (by the sound of it) direct to the circle some four feet
from the cabinet drapery; there was no direct voice, but the bell
seemed to be the communicator, answering by distinct tinkling.
Soon a roll of paper was on the move, and rather startled the first
person touched; it travelled round to first one and another of tha
circle, not in rotation, but promiscuously; a perfectly materialised
hand, with a coat sleeve (by the feel of it) touched not only myself,
but the majority of the circle. It passed fully six feet from the
curtains; the most satisfactory feature of the whole was long in¬
tervals of silence whilst the phenomena were going on, allowing us
the opportunity to detect any motion of the medium if he had been
manipulating; but the manner in which I was touched both by
tube and hand satisfied me that the accuracy of touch was so
precise in total darkness that it was impossible for the medium, to
be the only actor.
The next feature of the seance was a delightful shower of re¬
freshing perfumes, calling to mind an old and thoughtful friend in
the spirit “ Znippy ” with his profuse shower of stented breezes.
After the phenomena had ceased a light was ordered; the medium
came direct to me with his eyelids tightly pressed together, laid his
hand upon my head, and to a mental question as to whether it was
a relative not long passed over, amotion of three pats was the result.
Query, “ Could the medium know my thoughts, and at what precise
moment to answer ? ” (leaving out of the question the possibility of
a right guess.) The medium then passed to myjson on my right,
■and performed the same upon him, answering a second mental
question correctly.
Though there was the usual sameness in the above manifestation
that generally characterises physical seances, there seenfs to me to be
a need of a correct account of the same from this locality, it being
the first development of a physical medium in Darlington on record,
so far as my knowledge serves me. The absence of such mediums
has been keenly felt since Spiritualism was revived in the town of
Darlington four years ago.
Local physical mediums are under all circumstances preferred to
strange professional mediums; and the working class being as a
rule the sinew of any great movement or reform, appear to be
approachable but by one avenue—that which is the nearest to their
physical senses or materialistic surroundings: but, if possible, the
evidences of a dual existence (physical and spiritual) must be meted
out as Christ fed the five thousand until they were filled, without
price or distinction, and as he said, “ Freely have ye received and
freely give.” Heavy fees for admission are not only oppressive and
offensive to the working class, but directly opposed to the noble
example of our true reformer Christ and his chosen twelve, who faith¬
fully adhered to his strict commands throughout their glorious mis¬
sion ; this we, as the most advanced reformers ofjhe present day in spi¬
ritual matters, should never lose sight of. Where we find mediums
ready as those in whose company I experienced the phenomena re¬
corded above, to give their services purely for the good of humanity,
I say it is the sacred duty of every Spiritualist in the United Kingdom
to give his or her mite to a fund for the especial purpose of sustaining
those mediums, who are drawn upon not only by their physical
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 26, 1875.
employment by day, but in their faithful performance of their
spiritual duty at night, which must of necessity need extra
sustenance to supply the double drain that is going on continually
through them.
I did not intend trespassing so much upon your valuable space,
knowing well what a shower of correspondence you must be con¬
stantly receiving, but the latter subject is of such importance as to
be worthy the attention of the National Association, now that it has
publicly turned its attention specially to the condition of the work¬
ing classes, so far as their future spiritual welfare is concerned.
Thos. P. Hinde.
WALKEE-ON-TYNE.
An earnest active Spiritualist in this place is Mr. J. Elliott, who
some time since invited Newcastle mediums there, and has now
formed a circle with promising signs of success. The circle gets
ordinary table movements, and writing through a medium in a
semi-trance condition; the manifestations are becoming more
powerful at each sitting.
BIRTLEY.
Tins town, a few miles north of Ohester-le-Street, has a few
Spiritualists in its midst, and a trance and physical medium, in
the person of Mr. Bell, but no regular seances take place there at
present.
PERKINSVILLE.
Peukinsville, and Austin Colliery, in its vicinity, form a little
centre of Spiritualism, and circles are held regularly, trance speak¬
ing being the chief phenomenon.
FLATFIELD.
Spiritualism has recently been planted at Flatfield, near New¬
castle, and a circle there is attended by eight or nine persons every
Wednesday evening, at the house of Mr. John Wilson, Long Row.
The inquirers are highly satisfied with the results obtained, in the
shape of physical phenomena and trance mediumship.
CHES TER-LE-S TREET.
SUNDAY SERVICES.
Last Sunday afternoon an address in the trance state was de¬
livered by M. Lambelle, of South Shields, in the school-room of the
Middle Chare. About 120 listeners were present, all that the room
would hold, and the chair was occupied by Mr. Robertson, of South
Shields. After an invocation by the medium, and the sing¬
ing by the audience of the well-known hymn, “ There is a
land of pure delight,” the medium in the trance state proceeded to
deliver an address on “ The Spiritual World,” the controlling in¬
telligence alleging himself to be John Milton. He proceeded to
state that Spiritualism existed upon as firm a basis as mathematics,
and his object was to show that the soul found for itself a place
which it eventually inherited in the providence of God, each soul
moulding for itself a habitation in the spirit world. He proceeded
to give a description of different spheres of existence, and went so
far as to speak of high orders of beings who had never had an
earthly existence, then descended to the dark sphere of spiritual
beings immediately surrounding this earth; he added that they all
had their work to do, and while just retribution was awarded to
the authors of evil, through all the corridors of heaven were occu¬
pations suited to the thoughts of each individual spirit, and that
the spirit-world is composed of just such spirits as this world sends
there, so it ought to be our endeavour to form lofty spirits here
below. In this matter the spirit world depended upon the material
world for help, and men should give spirits opportunities to make
known the truths they desired to teach.
The medium spoke in a low tone of voice, and in a quiet way.
One of the listeners found fault with the grammatical features of
the discourse, and said that the language was not that of Milton.
Another (a local preacher) found the discourse tended to upset his
doctrine of salvation by faith. These objections were replied to in
a satisfactory manner, and the audience, which was an attentive
one, seemed on the whole much pleased.
In the evening another meeting was held at the same place, and,
if possible, there was a more closely packed audience; the listeners
allowed the controlling intelligence to choose his own subject, and
the medium in the trance state gave a discourse on “ The Immortality
of the Soul.” The discourse opened with a statement that the spirit
who inspired the medium was “known on earth as Oliver Crom¬
well it was further stated that the Spiritualism termed “ modern ”
was no more modern than the creation of the world, for throughout all
history its facts abounded. It was also a religion and a science.
The speaker, after dealing in an explicit manner with religion, both
natural and revealed, and with science ancient and modern, added
that Spiritualism wa's the only bridge uniting religion and science,
and he ended his discourse with a peroration showing how Christ
* Spirits who gir« such high-sounding names should be cross-questioned
as to their Identity by persons versed in the circumstances of their lives.
—E».
and His disciples, and the pioneers of all great truths, invariably
suffered for their faith.
newcastle-on-tyne.
DISCOURAGEMENT OE DARK SEANCES.
For some time past there has been a certain amount of dissatis¬
faction among some of the members of the Newcastle Spiritual
Society at the results of the dark seances for physical phenomena,
not on account of anything connected with or suspicious against
the mediums, but on account of the insufficiency of the test condi¬
tions. Consequently, the committee took the matter up on Tues¬
day, last week, and it was decided to have no more dark seances,
but to get what phenomena could be obtained in as good a light as
possible. This result of the deliberations was made known by Mr.
Armstrong, the president, to the assembled members, who numbered
about five-and-twenty, including a few visitors, among whom was
Mr. Crawshaw, of the firm, of Hawkes and Crawshaw, of Gates¬
head, one of the largest iron firms on the Tyne. He and others
inspected the cabinet; it contained two ordinary wooden 'Windsor
chairs, free from strings or wires, and on the floor were placed a
tambourine and a bell, perfectly unattached to anything. The
front of the cabinet was hung with dark green curtains, and the
mediums were placed outside the cabinet, with their feet about a
yard from the curtains and their backs to the audience. On the
gas being lowered it was found that the dark dresses of the mediums
prevented their being distinctly seen by all the members of the
circle, so it was suggested by Mr. Rhodes that the mediums should
have something white put upon them. This was willingly agreed
to, and white handkerchiefs were spread over their backs, so that
the least movements were visible; and under these conditions the
instruments inside the cabinet were frequently moved about—on
several occasions more than one at a time; the Jino/e being that
both the chairs and a tambourine were thrown from the cabinet
into the circle, some five or six yards, Miss Fairlamb getting a
slight bruise from one of them on the temple. The curtains were
also flung wide open. Miss Wood was entranced, and carried on a
conversation with the company; Miss Fairlamb was conscious all
the time, and naturally screamed when struck with thq passing
chair. Taking this as a good beginning under new conditions,
better things still are expected.
BARROW-IN-FURNESS.
Mrs. Scattergood, of Bradford, delivered two addresses on Sun¬
day last, the 21st, in the Amphitheatre, the audience in the afternoon
probably numbering 1,400, and at night about 2,000, and hundreds
were obliged to go away. Her subjects were chosen by her guides to
suit new audiences who had heard little or nothing before of Spirit¬
ualism. Her spirit friends delivered the discourses with much
earnestness, and doubtless caused many to believe that Spiritualism
is a great truth.
LIVERPOOL.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE ISLINGTON ROOMS.
The attendance at these rooms is good, at night especially. Last
Sunday afternoon Dr. Wm. Hutchinson delivered the second of
his series of discourses on “ Mythology ” to a highly respectable and
intelligent audience. From the frequent applause his observations
elicited, his discourse was evidently not considered to be of that dry
nature that the title might lead one to believe.
A crowded audience listened to Mr. Priest on Sunday evening.
His subject was “ Orthodoxy and Heresy.” He said that it was a com¬
mon error to suppose that inspiration is a thing of the past, or that it
came to a specially chosen few, or to a specially chosen people, raised
for that purpose in the past. The voice of inspiration is not now
silent, nor the office of seer and prophet abolished. Science ignores
inspiration, or denies it altogether, or looks upon it as belonging to
the age of superstition, engendered by gross ignorance, and con¬
cludes that this age of exact philosophy will dispel this and other
of the misconceptions of the past. The speaker remarked that there
was a weird grandeur about the past; its conflicts, its conquests,
multiplied sorrows, fervent loves and stern hates; but with all this
the future should occupy the serious attention of us all; the future
with its unborn possibilities is most important to every creature.
Why should inspiration be a thing of the past ? If God ever spoke
to man in days gone by; if the spirit world ever infringed itself
upon this in the past; if these things were possible then, why
should they not be possible now ? When we look back upon our
early life, boyish fancies, village homes, or happy school days, our
then future hopes—now sternly dissipated by the realities of man¬
hood, we almost regret that those days have flown by for Over.
Even so the race pictures the Edens, inspirations, and beauties of
life of its infantile career, forgetting these were but the necessary
adjuncts, fitting the race for its manhood development. The
speaker argued that dogma was not religion, consequently the signs
of the times predict that the Church is not upon a secure basis;
science, ho said, was encroaching rapidly upon her domain, tearing
the veil from her unfounded beliefs, and exhibiting facts—stem
facts. But would men cease to be religious ? If dogma and creed
were religion—Yes. Would they become mere mechanical auto¬
mata ? No. Religion, he said, was part and parcel of our existence,
as necessary to our well-being as air to our lungs or thought to our
brain. Spiritualism could solve the question.
Nov. 26, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
Last Tuesday a thief stole some dozens of letters sent for
publication in The Spiritualist, and two coats, from 38, Great
Eussell-street. Will the writers of the letters kindly send fresh
copies, and make them as brief as possible ?
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Last Tuesday night a test seance
for physical manifestations was given to the Dalston Society of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism by Miss Fowler. The fifth anniversary
meeting of the society will be held on Tuesday evening next, and
is likely to attract many members and friends. The rooms will be
opened at six o’clock, and every effort will be made to afford the
best accommodation to all who may attend. For further particu¬
lars see advertisement.
Mr. Morse’s Sunday Evening Lectures.—Next Sunday even¬
ing the course of lectures being delivered through the medium-
smp of Mr. J. J. Morse, will close with a discourse on the
“ Trinities in Man.” This being the last occasion on which Mr.
Morse will appear for the present before a London audience, it
is hoped that there will be a good attendance of Spiritualists.
Last week the lecture was attended by a large number of strangers
and inquirers.
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
T has been often a source of remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freethinking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a centralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
OENTBAL HOME FOR SPIRITUALISM,
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION BAZAAR.
SALE of the Articles left from the Association’s Bazaar,
in May w ill be commenced at 38, Great Russell-street, on Wednesday,
Dec. 1st, and will be continued during the week. Among the articles are
some pictures by David Duguid, executed in the unconscious trance, and
which will be sold for the benefit of the medium; one or two musical
boxes, some pieces of fancy needlework, and other objects of usefulness.
The pictures and musical-boxes may also be raffled for; the other articles
will be sold at moderate prices.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, Dec. 1st, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic
movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is
requested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th
tenth state.
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man¬
chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to offer, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITU ALISTIO CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &o., as may be
afterwards determined, together with a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library.
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN.
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE IKSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty members, at a subscription of
2s. 6d. per month, or 7s. 6d. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, &c., is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, who
will also act as secretary.
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday, December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Ordsall-lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, FfiO TEM.
Mr. Criswell,
„ George Dawson,
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Archibald Proctor,
„ Thomas Perris,
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tern.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. Established 1870. The Council have the pleasure
of informing the Members and Friends that arrangements have been made
for the Fifth Anniversary Meeting, to be held at tne Rooms of the Associa¬
tion, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston. London, E., on Tuesday evening, Nov.
30th, 1875. The chair will be taken at 7 o’clock, by the President of the
Association, Henry D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I. (Barrister-at-law, and Honorary
Secretary of the Association for the Reform and Codification of the Law of
Nations), who will deliver the Opening address. Mr. J. J. Morse (Honorary
Member) will deliver a Lecture upon bis “Experiences in America,” which
he has specially prepared for the occasion. Thomas Shorter, Esq., Dr.
George Sexton, and other members will address the meeting; while Vocal
and Instrumental Music, Recitations, Readings, &o., will be contributed by
Madame Curry, Miss Sexton, Messrs. Frederick and George Sexton,
R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Walter Cromarty, A. Darkin, and other Members and
Friends. Various articles of interest will be on view during the evening.
The Rooms will be opened at six, and the proceedings to commence at
seven o’clock.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 2.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti..
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subje treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of tho volume Cs., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; and
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post! Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—-38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, .Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 6 francs yearly.
REVUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
JSTov. 26, 1875,
Established in 1S69.
(CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for tile Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, port free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
** “ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weelily, is the oldest
J- Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe. ,
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S.,Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phepomena, but has, up: to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr..Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryatj ;.Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze : Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States),; Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jeneken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.Tel E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.'.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder,_Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. • It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the. first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the/SpiritooKst newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per/annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work bn the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information us to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the-fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ver, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last tnree years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately” subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrispn.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals df the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
List op Subscriptions to November 16th,
Mr. Martin R. Smith      £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn        50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze      50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne     40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  20 0 0
A Friend     20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Xod       20 0 0
Comte de Bullet        20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe     15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A IKS    5 5 0
Mr. O.F. Yarley, F.R.S.......  ! ;. 5 Q 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D  5 0,0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe   5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey     5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
Mrs.Honytfrood.      2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald   2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S 1   2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery  2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D     2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”  i  2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent      2 0 0
Dr. Baikie       2 0 0
Miss Douglas     2 0 0
M. H. O    2 0 0
1 Mr. Keningale Cook  1 ll 6-
Mr. Geo. King  110
Mr. F. A. Binney ...<..    110
Mr. J. Qoates     110
Mrs. Maltby..       ,...;   110
Mrs. Kislingbury       ;  l l o
Mr. B. W. Pycock....,..i...    l l o
Mr. B. Coleman       110
Mr. R. Fitton      110
Major Menars       110
Mr. John Lamont  7....'.  11 0
Mr. Archibald Lamont    ;..  11 o
Mr. T. B. Griflflu ;....  110
Mr, J. B. Stones    110
Mr. S, Regan      110
Mrs. Regan   J  1 1 0
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese    110
Rev. W. Whitear 110
Miss Whitear      1 10
Mr. O. E. Williams        110
Mr. A. Glendinning       110
Mr. H. Withall         110
CaptainJames      110
Mr. F. W. Percival   1 l o
Mr. Christian Reimers  110
Mr. Thos. Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant    110
Dr. W. M, Buchanan      10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A Subscriber   l 0 0
Amicus   10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton     10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee        0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett    0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands     0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp ’    0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald      0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock       0 10 0
Mr. Geo Blyton .'.  0 10 0
J. F.C ....„      0 10 0
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
begs to inform inquirers and others, that he is prepared to attend
Private Seances at the houses of investigators, and give unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given by him
before the members of “The Brixton Psychological Society.” For terms
and particulars apply by letter to Professor Redman, Brixton-hill, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
