AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
fKEGHSTEEED FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 166.—(Vol. VII.—No. 18.) LONDON: OCTOBER 29j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
The Selection of Medinnls for the St. Petersburg Investigation. By
the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Eussian Imperial Councillor  205
Eemarks on the Spiritual Phenomena     206
Anent Mrs. Carpenter, of Boston ...'  206
Brixton Psychological Society:—Interesting Mesmeric Experiments 207
Spirits of the Mines. By Emma Hardinge BrittenDerbyshire
Gnomes—A Night in a Haunted Hut—Impish Pranks—What the
Little Goblins did          ...    209
Departure of M. Aksakof and Arrival of Mr. Morse  210
Seance with the Boy Mediums   ... '  210
The National Conference of Spiritualists:—Next Wednesday’s Soiree 211
M. Aksakof and the Eing Test  211
Eecovery of Mr. Eobert Dale Owen    ...   211
Spirit People   ... ... ... 212
Spiritual Manifestations in Private Life:—Spirit Identity   212
PoetryThe Spirit’s Warning. By Newton Crosland  513
Correspondence: —Eeincarnation Speculations—Credulity and Scep¬
ticism     ... 213
Provincial News:—Liverpool, Eeception of Mr. J. J. Morse in Liverpool
—The Psychopathic Institution—Southsea, Spirit Arms and Fin¬
gers—A Wonderful Seance—Accrington, Mesmeric Experiments—
Neu>castle-on-Tyne, The Chief Newcastle Mediums at One Seance ... 214
Answers to Correspondents      216
Paragraphs:—A Psychological Quarterly Magazine, 208; Nature
Spirits, 212; A Full-grown Fox-ghost, 212;1 Sunday Lectures at
the Cavendish-rooms, 214; Sunday Lectures at Notting-hiil, 216;
Mr. Everitt at Dalston   216
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GEEAT EUSSELL-SEEET, BLOOMSBUEY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guineaa year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special-arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES.
ME. J. J. MOESE, TBANOE SPEAKEE,
WILL DELIVER
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Eooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-baildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
urchases and Sales of British, Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FEAN CIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshail & Co.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row EC.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ye. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Oapucines, Paris.
THE “STURMBERG” BLANCHETTE writes answers
to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not. All should
judge for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont
Constitution-hill, Birmingham. 4s. 4d., 2s. 2d., and Is. 9d., post free.
B
EVERIDGE AND
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions
Estimates forwarded on pplicatdon.
Spiritualist
o Printing.
A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,
At Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station, W., on
the following Sunday evenings:—November 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th.
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the course, 6s. Body of the
hall, free.
Service to commence at 7 o’clock. Doors open at 6.30. ‘
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., from the 3rd
to the bth of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Room*, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Seeond
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to he had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. By ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell. Price 7s. 6d. Postacre
6£d. Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Eussell-street, London W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils
By Frederick. A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 29, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Herefor<i--quare, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, rhomas, Lillan-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eltz-Herald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington^q., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D„ M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P , Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton. Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163. Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton.S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D„ G., 6. Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrsce, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end. Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James. Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
NOsworthy, Mrs., 17, Rlchmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M R.O.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Kegent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Ilendon-road, Churcn-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M A.,LL.B.,&c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Keiit-road, S E,
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bry’anston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Yersailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-strcet, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
3, Altenburg-terrace, Claphain Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlylc-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. i’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden,
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York ; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearyohand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 88th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Itiko, Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J Tyerman, 45, Drummoud-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. O Constant (late of .••rayni:i), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy. '
Dr. Maxinilian l erty. Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Eranz lioffimi in. Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq.,Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. fi- Terry, Esq,, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M IK, 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. DRson, Esq^, M D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J, N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelmo Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq , M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq , 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied' Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka'
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nationai Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid student*
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive insults arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to' communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as abovs.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Coninol in Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REOAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in bis normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient's residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 69, Finborough-road, RedcJ iff e-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October'next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily from 2 till 6, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
8TREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, bealing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, p'ubl c sea ces on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m, at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
JL 3|mrir ilp mb nf[
VOjLUJVIE ^EVEJM. J^U]V1BEF{ EIQHTEE]^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29th, 1878.
THE SELECTION OF MEDIUMS FOR THE ST. PETERS¬
BURG INVESTIGATION.
BY THE HON. ALEXANDRE AK8AKOF,RUSSIAN IMPERIAL COUNCILLOR.
When I resolved to search after mediums to visit
St. Petersburg, in order that their manifestations
might be observed by the scientific committee appointed
by the University for the purpose, I decided upon a
line of action which I communicated to Colonel Olcott,
whom I deputed to select suitable mediums in America.
I told him that I wanted our committee to have the
means of proving the abnormal movement of solid
objects in the light without contact with any living
person. I furtfier wished to find mediums who could
get the movement of solid objects in the dark behind
curtains, while they were seated in front thereof in full
view of the sitters, as it seemed to me that this class of
phenomena would give plain, absolute evidence, and that
the fact would be thereby tested in the easiest way,
without the mediums being subjected either to suspicion
or to painful treatment by tying or otherwise. As I
learned from the newspapers that sittings of the latter
class were held at Newcastle with the Petty’s, I was
curious to see whether the facts had been accurately
recorded, so I went to Newcastle last week, and found
there just the kind of phenomena I wanted to have.
At one of .the seances at Newcastle, at which I was
present, a corner of the room was screened off by two
curtains suspended from an iron rod; the mediums,
Mrs. Petty, her daughter Sarah, aged nine, and her son
Joseph, aged fourteen, were seated at a distance of three
feet in front of the curtains, to which no one in the
room was nearer. A banjo, handbells, pencil, paper, and
other things had been placed inside the recess on the
top of a small table. Under these conditions the
musical instruments were played inside the repess in a
good light; distinct knockings inside the curtains were
also heard. Some direct writing was done upon the paper
on the other side of the curtains, the words written being,
“ My dear friend, believe in us. God bless you.” Some
other remarks were also written. Several forms clothed
in white presented themselves at the opening of the
curtains. After the seance nothing was found in the
simply constructed cabinet, but the table, the musical
instruments, and other articles previously placed there.
I invited the mother and mediums to come to St.
Petersburg, and was informed that the mother could not
go because of the state of her health. Then I resolved
to try the powers of her two boys alone, without the
presence of Mrs. Petty, so I had two sittings with them
during which objects were moved behind the curtain,
while the boys were seated with their backs to it,
and all their four hands tied by myself. I also held
them by means of a piece of common tape tied to them,
which I kept in my left hand, while I took notes with
my right. There was sufficient light to see the hands of
the mediums, and that they did not move. Under these
conditions the manifestations occurred. Nevertheless,
as they took place in a house which was permeated by
the influence of the mother, I resolved to try a sitting
with the two boys alone in another house. Under
these conditions I likewise had the movement of objects
behind the curtains.
One of the tests which I tried at a sitting with the
boys was this. I took two bells to the house, one of
them larger than the other; one of them was put by
me upon the floor behind the curtains, with a piece of
tape tied to its handle; I then passed the tape over tho
curtain rod, and brought it down outside, where I
fastened the end of it to another bell placed upon a
table in our midst. The test I then required of the
spirits was that the tape behind the curtain should be
pulled, and made to move the bell upon the table,
so that the'evidence of eyesight should be obtained in
addition to that of hearing. The tape outside was alto¬
gether beyond the reach of the mediums, and was
clearly visible; we could have seen the act had it been
touched. Under these conditions the tape was pulled
inside, and the bell moved a foot along the top of tho
table towards the curtain; I then pulled it back to its
former place, and it was drawn a second time along
the table, after which the bell behind the curtain was
rung frequently. This I considered a sufficient test.
At one of the sittings with the boys, whose names are
"William and Joseph, the mother was not in tho room
with us, although she was in the house; the sitters and
the mediums were three feet from the curtains, and wo
had plenty of light; a figure clothed in white appeared
between the curtains and put forth her hand which l
was allowed to examine closely, and to touch for about
two minutes. It seemed to be a perfectly materialised
female naked hand, visible to the elbow; it was cold
and moist. This occurred in the Petty’s house. The
mother was asked afterwards if she felt anything
during the seance, and answered that she felt a great
deal of power had been taken from her. She was
washing the other children at the time and was hardly
able to finish the work.
I had occasion to attend the meetings of the New¬
castle Spiritualistic Society, and once, while Miss Wood
was tied with strings to a chair in a very secure
manner, a materialised figure calling himself Benny
came out and remained in the circle for three-quarters
of an hour. At another sitting this same figure came
out in company with the medium, Miss Wood, and
walked round the circle, which consisted of thirty-five
or forty persons, with all of whom it shook hands. Tho
medium and the veiled figure were both walking
together, and were both unmistakably living.
The forthcoming number of the Fortnightly Review ■will contain
a reply to his controversial adversaries by Professor Tyndall.
The water-colour drawings of the late Mr. John Varley (father
of Mr. Cromwell Varley, F.R.S.), painted from nature in Egypt and
Nubia, are now on view at the Alexandra Palace. Among them
are three views of the Great Pyramids, from different points and
under different effects of light and shade ; a view of the ruins of the
Great Temple at Karnac; and views of the beautiful ruins of the
Island of Philoe, under the effects of early morning and sunset.
206
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875.
REMARKS ON THE SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
As before a dense mist here and there breaking over
some strange new region, of which the features and the
flora are unknown, so stand we before the veil through
which flash phenomena the source of all the super¬
stitions which have enthralled mankind—the phenomena
of Spiritualism now for the first time in the history of
the world intelligently observed.
Ear from any light having dawned on these amazing
mysteries through the study of which they have for
some time been the object, the more deeply they are
looked into the more incomprehensible and bewildering
they undeniably are found to be, the sole positive know¬
ledge as yet in fact derived from them, being that of
the existence of an extra-mundane realm, closely con¬
nected by hidden links with that of earth, and, there¬
fore, not impenetrably closed, we may presume, against
inductive investigation. This indeed alone is a gain as
opportune as immense at this hour, when physicists
either deny or gravely doubt the existence of aught
beyond that matter with which they deal ; when the
spirit of the age not essentially antagonistic to the
spiritual, but earnest in the pursuit of truth is unable
to accept as such doctrines not resting on proof from
facts ; when many minds are sinking sadly into mate¬
rialism, after having vainly, perhaps, sought satis¬
faction in elevated but vague theistic views, such as
those to which utterance has now been given even
within the walls of Westminster Abbey. In his lecture
delivered there the year before last, Professor Max-
Miiller expressed the belief or hope that the religion
of the future will be the result of the competition now
going on between Christianity, and the two best of the
heathen religious, Buddhism and Hahommedanism,
that from the consciousness of each being watched by
the other with a critical eye, all that is good in each will
bo more fully called out, and all that is evil expelled ;
creeds and formulas disappearing in the process, and
leaving only the essence of Christianity, “ Love to God
aid love to man, founded on the love of God,” But
however desirable such a result might be as far as it
would go, it never could suffice, for all mere reasoning
having failed to prove the immortality of the soul, a
system in which that doctrine should rest on ho basis of
fact, would be wanting in the most essential element of
a spiritual philosophy. This element is, doubtless, pre¬
cisely what we may hope the phenomena of Spiritualism
will supply, but though there are many who have
already obtained from that source what to them is
proof of a future state, still time, much labour yet, and
patience in the observation of facts, the appearance
perhaps of some mind pre-eminently endowed with the
faculties fitted for the discernment of new truth, may be
requisite before the character of these deepest of nature’s
mysteries can be clearly apprehended and demonstrated
to all mankind.
As to attempt at this stage of inquiry, to build up a
religion grounded on the phenomena of Spiritualism, it
appears to a not inconsiderable. class of those who
accept them, to the last degree premature; the sole
immediate object they conceive to be pursued by
observation of these phenomena, is ascertainment of
their nature, and of the conditions under which they
appear, with the hope of ultimately bringing within
the pale of positive science, as matter to it pertaining,
questions which have hitherto been confined to the
theological or the metaphysical domain—questions as
to the nature of the ‘soul and its existence after the
death of the body, so as to effect, in fact, in regard to
the spiritual, a revolution of thought as great as, and
similar in kind to that revolution which in a former
age overthrew the authority of the schools. - Signs
abound in the higher region of religious thought,
recalling those which in the intellectual world heralded
the great reformation in philosophy, which marked
the period of transition from blind subjection to the
sway of some great minds of early times, and barren
disputation on subtle points to free and fruitful study of
nature in all her forms.
The prospect of application to man’s highest quest of
those methods which have guided him to truth in other
paths of inquiry, is a more animating one than that
held out by an eminent physicist, who in an eloquent
presidential address at Belfast last year, consigned
speculations concerning the spiritual to the end of time
to cloudland; there by the exercise of what “ in contrast
to the knowing faculties^” he describes as “ the creative
faculties,” mankind must, Professor Tyndall conceives,
be content to build for ever new theories in the air
varying with the spiritual needs of each age; to invent,
that is to say, for ever new fashions in religion.
There is surely a strange want of courage on the part
of those men of influence who, convinced by experience
of the reality of the spiritual phenomena, yet shrink from
publicly avowing their belief. No doubt, as Professor
de Morgan has remarked, “ there is something to many,
unpleasant in the alternative of knave or fool, when
invited (as Spiritualists usually are) to select a character
for themselves out of the pair,” and such shrinking
might be pardonable were the world serene and satisfied
on the score of things spiritual, but at the present
crisis ought they not to feel that it behoves them to
speak out, if they can bear testimony to facts indicating
a realm beyond that blank wall before which physicists
lead and leave us, if they can aid in clearing away the
choking sands of prejudice, so that the waters of
spiritual truth may flow into the Sahara of scepticism.
If deterred by the apparently anomalous character and
irreconcilableness to known law of the phenomena, by
the idea that they can never be made conducive to
useful ends, should they not remember that other
phenomena now traced to principle at one time appeared
equally anomalous and isolated ? should they not feel
animated by something of the spirit of Bacon, when,
after dwelling on the great results to be anticipated
from study of nature, and urging others thereunto, he
exclaims, “ Though a much more faint and uncertain
breeze of hope were to spring up from our New Continent,
yet we consider it necessary to make the experiment if
we would not show a dastard spirit.” J. H. D.
ANENI MRS. CARPENTER, OF BOSTON.
Thebe is a medium in Boston, TJ.S., named Mrs.
Carpenter, who, according to information given to us by
Mr. Martheze, is well known as a trance medium, and
to whom it appears to be necessary that all sections of
the spiritual movement should direct attention. Accord¬
ing to the Banner of Light of September 25th, 1875,
Mrs. Carpenter informed the Boston Herald that the
manifestations produced through the mediumship of
Mrs. Annie E. Eay were all imposture; furthermore,
that she could make them herself. She accordingly
brought together a body of witnesses, including non-
Spiritualists, and after being secured in what the
Oct. 29, 1875.
THE SPIHITUALIST.
207
Boston Herald describes as “ almost precisely ” the same
manner as Mrs. Fay, performed what she asserted to be
tricks, the deduction therefrom being that Mrs. Fay was
an impostor. Now, it so happens that although in
England scarcely anything is known of Mrs. Fay or her
antecedents, some of the manifestations produced
through her mediumship were well tested here, and a
proportion was abundantly proved to be beyond her own
power of production by any normal means, without
giving her the benefit of any doubt regarding any one
of the results which might be possibly produced artifi¬
cially. In witness to the accuracy of what is here
stated, reference may be made to the records of her
seances in the absence of Mr. Fay, at the houses of
Miss Douglas and Mr. Crookes. It follows, therefore,
that if this Mrs. Carpenter played any conjuring tricks
with sham knots tied by a confederate, or by the use of
cunningly manufactured ironwork, by means of which
imitations of these manifestations are sometimes made,
Mrs. Fay’s are not done in the same way, as experi¬
ment will readily show. In such case Mrs. Carpenter is
a medium who is bringing a false charge against
another medium, probably out of jealousy, and at the
same time inducing the public and the press to throw
discredit on the Spiritual movement. If, on the other
hand, Mrs. Carpenter’s manifestations are the same as
those of the best of Mrs. Fay’s, sbe is not only a medium
committing the heinous offence of showing real medium-
ship as imposture, but i% attempting at the same time
to establish a false charge, and to injure the movement.
As people of good standing and character, at much
self-sacrifice, are publicly testifying to the genuineness of
certain spiritual manifestations, it is highly necessary
at the present time to make a severe example, wherever
possible, of mediums like Mrs. Carpenter, who commit
atrocious acts like these, and do so very probably out of
that furious jealousy sometimes markedly evinced by
the lowest but not the highest class of mediums, the
latter of whom will be very pleased to see an example
made of one who thus wantonly brings discredit upon
their calling.
Fortunately Mrs. Fay obtains the phenomena with
great certainty at any time, so we, who have so often
defended and befriended mediums unjustly attacked,
now recommend that a committee of known men such
as Mr. Epes Sargent, Dr. Crowell, Mr. Colby, Mr. Eich,
and one or more of the heads of the staff of the Boston
Herald, shall insist upon Mrs. Carpenter giving one of
hersham seances before them, and showing how the tricks
are done. If she shows some mechanical tricks, then
let the committee try Mrs. Fay, and it will be seen that
the charge is a false one. If Mrs. Carpenter should be
“ absent through illness,” or refuses to shovy how they
are done, she is bringing a false charge without proof.
If, furthermore, she is showing genuine medium-
ship as imposture, she cannot explain to the committee
how she produces the results, and is animated with a
malicious intention to knowingly crush another person,
by means of a false charge. In either case she ought
to be drummed out of the spiritual movement.
We do not speak in favour of any manifestations
which have taken place in Mrs. Fay’s presence, except
those which were produced in the presence of compe¬
tent witnesses, and were physically demonstrated not
to be due to conjuring or other than abnormal powers,
so are in no sense one of her advocates. Thus the
whole question is put upon the foundation of fair play
to both mediums, and no favour.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
INTERESTING MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
On "Wednesday evening, last week, a meeting of the Brixton
Psychological Society was held at the house of Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald. member of the Institution:- of Telegraph Engineers, (J,
Loughborough-road North, Brixton, London, to witness some ex¬
periments by Mr. Redman, an experienced mesmerist, well-known
in that locality. Among the members present were Mr. and Mrs.
Fitz-Gerald, Dr. Ponder, Mr. and Mrs. Edmands, Mr. Osborne, Mr.
H. E. Francis, Mr. J. D. Warren, Mr. 0. H. W. Biggs, Mr. H. With-
all, Mr. J. Gray, Mrs. Gunyon, Mr. Deane, Mr. W. Newton,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr.'Robert Johnston, and Mr. Frederick
Martin. The two latter gentlemen were sensitives, who had on
some few previous occasions been under the mesmeric influence of
Mr. Redman on public platforms.
Mr. Redman first gave several members of the company some
discs of zinc and copper to gaze at steadily, as usual at mesmeric
lectures, on which occasions, as is well-known, those who are sen¬
sitive to mesmeric influence sometimes fall asleep, and are after¬
wards acted upon by the speaker. In the present instance no effect
was produced, the sitters being mostly critical, positive-minded,
non-impulsive people, and such are not usually susceptible to
mesmeric influence to any great extent, at all events during the first
trial.
These discs of zinc and copper are sometimes asserted by those
who use them to exorcise some electrical influence upon the brains
of those who hold them, an assertion" with which no practical elec¬
trician will agree. They probably serve to abstract the attention
of those who are sensitive from surrounding objects; the spectators
are usually exhorted to be quiet at the time, and slow music is some¬
times played; under these conditions, while imbued with the idea
that some mysterious power is being exerted over them, those who
are most sensitive and yielding fall into the mesmeric sleep, and
come under the power of the operator. Mrs. Hardinge used
to say that by gazing steadily at the knob of a door she could
gradually become clairvoyant, the. said knob being quite as effective
as any disc of zinc and copper. Mesmer himself, who at one time
supposed magnetism to have something to do with producing mes¬
meric effects, had a complicated arrangement of magnets, but a
physician at Bath found that a dummy set of wooden magnets made
by himself answered the same purpose just as well; the influence
of the mind of the sensitive and the will-power of the operator
being the chief agencies at work.
Mr. Redman afterwards sent his two sensitives to sleep and began
to operate upon Mr. Frederick Martin. He remarked that mesmeric
sleep was deeper than ordinary sleep, and that the natives of India
were much more susceptible than, the English to mesmeric influ¬
ence, for in nine- cases out of every twelve, Hindoos who passed
under the hands of a mesmerist were overcome by the power. His
own attention was first drawn to mesmerism by its effects upon
Sancho, a half caste Hindoo, whom he saw mesmerised while on a
voyage to Calcutta.
Mr. Martin, in the first stage of the operat'ons, repeated every
question that Mr. Redman uttered to him, instead of answering ir,
and the operator said that at this stage of the sleep Mr. Martin was
completely unconscious. After a time the sensitive ceased to repeat
the questions, and at last, when Mr. Redman said, “ Are you con¬
scious ?.” replied, “ I don't know.”
Mr. Redman then, by making passes over him, made him con¬
scious, but at the same time unable to resist the influence; for
instance, when he stretched out Mr. Martin’s arm and told him that
he could not put it down again he was unable to do so, although he
tried his utmost. It seemed as if the will-power of the sensitive
over his arm were taken away, but not the power of his mind over
any other part of his body.
A member asked whether Mr. Martin could be made clairvoyant.
Mr. Redman replied that he had never yet been made clairvoyant
under his influence, but that he knew a young man at Weston-
super-Mare who was a thorough clairvoyant, and in the room below
could see what was going on upstairs. [As Dr. Wylde offered a
reward of £100 in the Spiritualist a few weeks ago to any clair¬
voyant who could read the contents of sealed letters under certain
conditions, perhaps Mr. Redman might do well to call the attention
of his Weston friend to the subject-j
Mr. Harrison asked Mr. Redman whether he could operate upon
his sensitive through a folding door, so that neither by sight nor by
suggestion made by word of mouth, could the latter know what Mr.
Redman was trying to do.
This was tried, the sensitive sitting on one side of one of the
folding doors of the drawing-room and Mr. Redman standing on the
other side of the door, whilst most of the spectators arranged them¬
selves so that they could see both sides. Under these conditions
Mr. Martin went to sleep, but did not follow the motions of the
hands of the mesmerist. As he knew that Mr. Redman was trying
too perate upon him, this experiment furnished no proof of the
existence of any force outside the mind of Mr. Martin.
In some further experiments, Mr. Redman by suggestion made
his sensitive forget his own name and take any other that was
given to him; so that at one stage of the operations he vehemently
persisted in asserting that his name was “ Sarah Ann."
Mr. Redman here remarked that it was a matter of very little
importance if an inexperienced person, after putting a sensitive into
208
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875.
a mesmeric sleep, discovered that he could not wake him up again,
for such a thing sometimes occurred. There was no danger in the
matter, the coming to of the person being only a question of time,
so the best thing they could do under such circumstances was to
put him to bed. He might sleep for a few hours or a few days, but
when he woke up he would be much better in health in consequence
of the sleep.
Next followed a very interesting experiment. Mr. Martin was
sent into a mesmeric sleep and Mr. Redman then made passes
behind him. without uttering a word. He made Mi-. Martin kneel
down and rise up; drew him backwards, pushed him forwards, and
made him take a seat on a chair; all this was done by means of
asses behind his back and without touching him, consequently
ere seemed to be an influence not due to the unconscious action of
the brain of the sensitive upon his body. It will be noticed that
when a door was between the two, the same results were not pro¬
duced, so in these experiments there is a little evidence of the
existence of a force acting as a connecting link between the
operator and the sensitive, which force can be cut off by means of
a partition of wood; nevertheless, the experiments were too few to
justify anybody in coming to an absolute conclusion.
Mr. Redman here said that sometimes he had spoken through
certain sensitives, by willing that they should say certain things.
They did not then repeat his exact words, but seemed to seize his
ideas and to express them in their own language. He did not try
the experiment with Mr. Martin. A scries of trials on this vital
point would be of deep interest and value to all Spiritualists, it'being
a clear case of a spirit in the body making another spirit in the body
speak in the trance state. By experiments such as these, the diffi¬
culties spirits have to encounter in controlling mediums can be
ascertained; for instance, a speech or sentence might be written
down and given to a mesmerist, which he should will his sensitive
to repeat; what the sensitive then says should be taken down in
shorthand and compared with the original writing. This would be
a means of getting at the extent to which the utterances of
spirits are changed by the brain and by the mental calibre of the
sensitive under their control. This is a subject which the Lectures
and Discussions Committee of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists might take up with great advantage to the spiritual move¬
ment and interest to its members. . _
Mr. Harrison asked whether by making passes over a sensitive,
such as those which were made over Mr. Martin to cause him to
rise after he had been kneeling upon the ground, any alteration had
ever been observed in the weight of the body of the sensitive. Had
a sensitive ever been lifted off the ground in that way as some
mesmerists had asserted ?
Mr. Redman said that he was not aware that any alteration 6f
weight had ever been produced in that way.
Mr. Harrison asked whether a sensitive had ever been placed on
any apparatus which would indicate changes in his weight while the
experiment was being made.
Mr. Redman replied that he did not know of any such experi¬
ments, and should like to try some.
The operator next' caused Mr. Martin to stretch out both his
hands above his head V fashion, and willed that he should hold
them in that position without letting them fall. In this uncomfort¬
able position he kept them for a long time, and Mr. Redman said
that the sensitive felt no pain while so doing, but at the same time
the prolonged act involved a consumption of vital energy, and the
body- continued to grow warm. After his arms had been thus
stiffened for about seven minutes, Dr. Ponder felt his pulse, and
discovered it to be beating at the furious rate of 120 to the minute,
70 being about the normal velocity. When he was awakened Mr.-
Martin said that he felt an aching pain in his shoulders, his face was
hot, but his hands were cold.
Mr. Redman said that notwithstanding the apparently trying
nature of many of these experiments, Mr. Martin would go home
and, after a night’s rest, would feel more refreshed than if he had
not undergone the various trials. The person who was really
exhausted by them was the mesmerist. At the time that he made
passes over the sensitive and willed, say, that he should go on
clapping his hands, much vital energy was drawn from the opera¬
tor; but after the sensitive had once begun clapping his hands, and
the mesmerist ceased to operate or to exert his will-power, the
latter felt no further drain, the power from that moment being
derived from the vital energy of the sensitive.
Mr. Redman then woke up Mr. Martin, who on being questioned
by the operator, said that he remembered nothing of what he had
been doing. On the first occasion that he had ever been mes¬
merised by Mr. Redman he remembered afterwards what he had
been doing while under his influence, but on subsequent occasions
this power of recollection left him. He further said that when the
mesmerist first began to throw him into the sleep, he felt like a
person in a dream.
Mr. Redman remarked that there was a connection between one
mesmeric sleep and another. On one occasion he was operating
upon a sensitive in public, and made him believe that his name was
“ Gaspipe.” In his normal condition afterwards he knew nothing
about this, bjit when he was sent to sleep subsequently on another
evening he, unexpectedly to Mr. Redman, asserted his name to be
“Gaspipe.”
Mr. Redman next forced his sensitive to believe that he was in a
public hall known to him in his normal state. At once Mr. Martin
saw both the organ in the hall and the organist, and was seized
with a desire to play the organ himself. Mr. Redman then led him
to the piano, which he played upon while in this curious psycho¬
logical state. Mr. Redman said that this was not a case of clair¬
voyance, that is to say, the sensitive did not really see the hall or
the organ; he had been simply made to believe that they were
before him in consequence of the exercise of the will-power of the
operator, and after this idea had been implanted the mind of the
sensitive conjured up all the rest of the drama.
While Mr. Martin was thus playing the piano his eyes were closed,
and Mr. Redman made him hold his head back until his face was
upturned to the ceiling. The operator then asked Dr. Ponder to
open his eyelids, which he did, and it was found that the pupils
were rolled up, nothing but the whites could be seen; when Dr.
Ponder at the request of the operator touched the eyeballs, the
sensitive did not flinch, but continued to play the piano in the same
automatic manner.
Mr. Redman, by making passes behind him, stopped his playing,
or forced him to continue it at will. Whenever he set him going
again the sensitive took up the tune at the same point that he had
been stopped at, no matter what might have been the lapse of time
between.
Mr. Redman next stopped one hand of the sensitive, and per¬
mitted the other to continue to play. When the arrested hand was
once more released, it took up the tune at that point where it pro¬
perly blended with the playing of the other hand, so that the ar¬
rested hand did not resume its work from the point it left off.
In answer to a question, Mr. Redman said that he had known
the sensitive for two years, and had experimented upon him seven
or eight times in all during that period. Mr. Martin was then once
more awakened, and Dr. Ponder said that his pulse was beating at
the rate of eighty per minute.
Mr. Redman then said he could draw a line of force from the
head of the sensitive to another person, which line the sensitive
would follow. He made a few passes over the head of Mr. Martin,
then drew a line in the air with his hands across the room, to the
head of Mr. Gray, upon which he made a few passes. He then told
the sleeping sensitive to find a little blue flame upon the head of
one of the sitters present. Mr. Martin gazed about a little with his
eyes closed, then went straight to Mr. Gray, carefully collecting
nothing off the top of his head in his hands, which he held as if
carrying water; then walked back to Mr. Redman, remarking,
“ Here’s a nice little blue flame,” and he appeared to be considerably
delighted by its appearance. He said that it was not hot, but like
vapour.
Mr. Harrison asked whether the sensitive could follow the as¬
sumed line of force round the folding door to one of a number of
persons on the other side, so as to show that there was an actual
line, and not one produced by some abnormal operation of the mind.
Mr. Redman said that he would try it. The experiment was
tried six or seven times, and failed in the sense that the blue flame
was not found, but succeeded in the circumstance that it determined
the point at issue.
In the final experiment, Mr. Martin, in the mesmeric sleep, was
made to lie upon his back along the tops of three chairs. The central
chair was then taken away, so that he rested with the back of his head
on one chair and his heels upon the other, with nothing between.
After remaining supported thus for about a quarter of a minute
his body began to bend downwards. Mr. Redman then made
passes above him, and the centre of his body rose once more.
Every time he began to sink Mr. Redman raised him by passes
made above him without touching him, so that it was clear
that vital energy in some form or other continually passed
from him to his sensitive, so as to enable the muscles of the latter
to counteract the continuous strain put upon them. After the
body of the sensitive was thus kept in a more or less stiffened state,
between two chairs for about five minutes, Mr. Redman ceased to
make passes. The body of Mr. Martin then gradually bent until
he found himself seated upon the floor, with his head on the edge
of one chair and his heels on the edge of another.
All present felt much indebted to Mr. Redman and Mr. Martin
for the highly interesting experiments of the evening. With one
thing however, stated by Mr. Redman, probably few of his listeners
would agree; namely, that nervous force is electricity. Nervous
force travels along its channels only about as fast as a horse can
gallop, as has been amply proved over and over again by direct
experiment; whereas the velocity with which electricity passes is
infinitely greater. Further, experiments have proved that nervous
force cannot be transmitted through a frozen nerve, whereas
electricity travels faster through a frozen nerve than it does through
a nerve in its normal condition.
A Psychological Quarterly MAGAziNE.-r-The new psycho¬
logical and philosophical quarterly to be called Mind, announced
some time ago, will begiu to appear in January next. Among
those who have engaged to contribute to the first number are Mr.
Herbert Spencer, Mr. G. H. Lewes, Mr. H. Sidgwiqk, Rev. John
Venn, Mr. S. H. Hodgson, Mr. James Sully, Professor Flint, of St.
Andrews; Dr. M‘Kendrick, of Edinburgh; and Professor"Lindsay,
of the Free Church College, Glasgow. The Rector of Lincoln will
write on the state of philosophical study at Oxford. Professor Bain
will have an article on the early life of James Mill, based on new
and special inquiries.—Athemeum.
Oct. 29, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
209
SPIRITS OF THE MINES*
BY EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN.
From the “ Banner of Light" (Boston, U.S.), Oct. 9th, 1875.
I FIRMLY, emphatically believe that we have ample demonstra¬
tion of a human origin in every manifestation where human forms
are presented or human intelligence rendered. I cannot say I know
this, but I believe it, and I think an immense array of the testimony
our experiences in Spiritualism furnish us with, all tends to confirm
this belief up to the point of absolute certainty. At the same time
I not only believe in, but I know the fact of the existence of other
than human spirits. I have seen them, held some kind of inter¬
course with them, and confidently believe they can measurably
intervene in human affairs. I have never seen any in human form
except in such a caricature, miniature, or distorted resemblance of
that divine image, that I should not have been liable to mistake
them for human beings.
Commencing with the old but never out of fashion saying of
Hamlet, “ There are more things in heaven and earth than we
dream of in our philosophy, Horatio,” I. shall give my experience
in one instance, at least, with the so-called “ gnomes, “ kobolds,”
or spirits of the mines.
It is well known in certain mining districts, especially in Bohemia
and Hungary, that many of the miners cherish faith in the existence
of an order of beings who take especial interest in their labours,
and help them to find rich leads of minerals, knock, or as they call
it, “ hammer” away lustily when they are at fault, and sometimes
by these sounds, sometimes by lights, and occasionally by the ap¬
parition of little figures, point the way to the richest leads of the
metals. I have visited the mines in Germany and the Bohemar
Wold, where I have heard those knockings, seen the lights, and
should have unhesitatingly attributed such phenomena to the spirits
of deceased friends of the miners had I not also, not once or twice,
but many times, seen little stocky-looking things in the shape of
men, very small, and either black, red, or metallic in colour—little
chunks of creatures, whom the miners were accustomed to see and
call by a name which, translated, signifies “earth spirits.” They
said they were kind and good; never meddled with them, though
they sometimes in sport threw their tools about. These miners
told me they often saw lights, and all could hear the knockings, but
few could see the figures, and in some of the mines I visited, the poor
workmen thought more highly of me than ordinary, because I could
see their “well beloved little earth spirits.” With the light of
modern Spiritualism to guide me, I easily understood that I, as a
medium, could see spiritual apparitions invisible to the eyes of those
who were not mediums. I also comprehended why certain of the
workmen, their wives or children, being spiritually unfolded, could
perceive the forms of those whom their less gifted companions only
knew by their knockings or flashing lights.
DERBYSHIRE GNOMES.
In William Howitt’s charming sketch, called Berg-Geister, he
alludes to these popular beliefs amongst miners, but he does more,
he gives a very graphic account of a certain Clamps in the wood,
Where veritable gnomes figured as the principal personages. Mr.
Howitt’s narrative is supported by names, witnesses, and sundry
details which confirm his own undoubted testimony. As I hap¬
pened to be one of the privileged few who visited the haunted
region which Mr. Howitt writes of, I shall cite my own experiences
in the matter, with what I trust my readers will allow to be the
honest purpose of making myself responsible for the story.
It is now some few years since, being in the neighbourhood of
a lovely valley called Dove dale, in the County of Derbyshire,
England, I heard my kind host and hostess, Mr. and Mrs. Hart,
expatiating upon the singular phenomena they had witnessed in
the cottage of an old labourer (then passed away to the better
world), called Clamps; I think, if I recollect right, he had worked
for Mr. Hart, who was interested in the mines adjacent to Dove-
dale. My friends informed me that Clamps had resided for over
fifty years in a ruinous old farm-house, only a small part of which
was habitable. The place was on the e.dge of the mines, where
the old man in his youth and prime had worked, and where, as I
believe, he died. During his long residence of half a century in
tins place, old Clamps and his associates were accustomed to see
strange globular lights, which year in and year out would come
and go with all the familiarity of household ghosts.
Mr. Hart, who was somewhat of a sceptic on the subject of my
“ spirits,” as he termed it, declared that if Clamps’s lights were
spirits of “ humans,” they must have been those of deceased lamp¬
lighters or gas men—for they never appeared by day, and gene¬
rally chose the long winter nights, or particularly dark evenings,
for the periods of their visitations. Old Clamps called them his
“ glorious lights,” and was very particular about returning to his
shanty early every night, so that he should not miss seeing them.
They came out, or seemed to come, as my friends alleged, from a
firm wall, fashioned of rock, and the blocks so solidly cemented
together that not a crack or cranny could be discovered. They
generally .came from two or three to seven or eight in number.
Mrs. Hart said that one very cold winter’s night she saw
as many as ten of these lights. They seemed to fill the
* Mrs. Hardlnge, the authoress of this extraordinary narrative, has clair¬
voyant powers, and is well known to English Spiritualists.
little room, and hovered about the fire as if gratified with its
pleasant warmth. “ They came,” said my informant, “ out of the
wall, some about two feet from the ground, others as high as three
feet, but none more than four, and all remained the same height
during the time of their stay.” They shook, trembled, or flickered
the whole time, as if they were quivering with fear or cold. They
had been seen for years and years, longer, indeed, than the memory
of the “ oldest inhabitants ” of that region could trace them, except
the venerable octogenarian Clamps, who affirmed they had always
been there as long as he could remember. Their coming was gene¬
rally preceded by crackling sounds, or direct knockings, and many
of the neighbours declared they saw the figures of little men just as
Mr. Howitt’s narrative describes them—namely, “ black as a coal,
and polished as a boot.” One of the neighbours, a woman who had
often visited the cottage of Clamps with her children, described the
appearance of the little men as being short, chunky, destitute of
hair, polished all over, and bearing about the region where the
heart lies in human beings a large globular light about the size of
an ostrich’s egg. It was this light, she said, “ which the folks saw,”
and it was by this light that she and her children saw them. She
added, they did not walk, but jumped about, and their incessant
restless motions caused the flickerings which the lights always
exhibited. My friend Mrs. Hart always beheld the dim outline of
little figures accompanying the lights, but the distinctness with
which these creatures were seen seemed to depend upon what in
our philosophy we term mediumistic endowments. Other forms
had been seen at Clamps’s, such as dogs, horses, and even wild beasts,
but as the cottage was inaccessible to horses, and no other animals
of any kind were kept or known to frequent that neighbourhood,
these accounts were set down to superstitious exaggerations.
A NIGHT IN A HAUNTED HUT.
I might fill a volume with the stories related to me of this region,
and the matter-of-fact narratives which many of the most intelligent
of the miners and their families furnished me with seemed beyond
gainsay or denial. Shortly before my visit to that section of country
terminated, my friends the Harts proposed to give me an opportunity
of witnessing for myself some of the marvels they had discoursed
about. They told me old Clamps had passed away; that the cot¬
tage he had inhabited had been tenanted for some years by a very
decent family of poor peasants, but as the children grew up
the elder members of the family, fearing the continual manifesta¬
tion of preternatural sights and sounds would make them “ skeary ”
and superstitious, had at length moved away, aud the place had been
abandoned. It was the opinion of the few labourers who had been
accustomed to see and had grown familiar with Clamps’s “ glorious
lights,” that they would never come out except a fire was lighted
there; and as the place was deserted and very far remote from
other inhabitants, my friends proposed to take me to a still more
distant neighbourhood, and one where, as they knew by experience,
my curiosity might have a good chance to be gratified. Starting
early one fine October morning we drove about ten miles from home,
intending to visit the mines, which commenced about the end of
Dovedale Valley, but terminated in the direction my friends pursued.
Arrived at a wild and most romantic glen, we left our horses and
carriage at a poor tavern called “ The Miner’s Rest.” perched on the
very top of the matfs of rocks which reared up their craggy heights
like sentinels guarding the entrance to the charmed region. Our
path was continued for more than two miles along a rough road
broken out of fallen trees and crumbling rocks by the wheels of the
heavy wagons used for conveying the mineral from the mines. A
more wild, weird, and toilsome journey I never in my life undertook,
and in truth I became so fatigued during its progress that we had
some doubts whether I should be able to muster strength enough to
accomplish our pilgrimage. It was twilight before we gained our
point of destination, and glad enough I was to see the glowing fires
of what looked more like a little encampment of gipsies than a
village, although it was really dignified with that title. My friends
guided me at once to a hut more pretentious than the rest, and in¬
troduced me to a family who had formerly been servants in their
household. It consisted of a man, his wife, mother, and two fine
lads, all of whom were employed in different ways in the adjacent
mines. As we stated that we had only come to inspect these mines,
and that the lateness of our visit was occasioned by the difficulties
which attended our journey, the good, hospitable people were at once
apprised of the necessity of providing us with some accommodation
for passing the night. The women, after busying themselves to
provide us with some boiling water for our tea—for we had carried
provisions with us—agreed to retire to a neighbour’s hut with their
boys, whilst the father, who was on duty in the mines, left us soon
after we arrived. The shanty was to be at our disposal, then, during
the night.
IMPISH PRANKS.
Mr. Hart was to be “ stowed away ” in a cave at the back of the
house, hewn out of the rock, and filled with sweet, fresh hay, for
the use of the horses employed by the miners, whilst a rude but
clean bed was assigned to Mrs. Hart and myself. When all was
done the women piled up the logs on the hearth, where a cheerful
fire was burning, and prepared to quit us. Just as they were
bidding us good night, the logs, which they had arranged with some
care, suddenly tumbled down and rolled over and over on the floor.
Deeming this a mere accident I took no notice of it until I observed,
whilst Maria, the miner’s wife, was in the act of replacing them, several
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875.
small, glimmering lights flickering over the wall against which
the logs were piled. This might have been the phosphorescent
light occasioned by the decay of the wood, I thought; but lo ! the
logs were no sooner piled up again than down they toppled, and
that apparently without any cause. I then observed significant
looks passing between the mother and daughter, and an evident
disposition to linger and make some explanation as yet unspoken.
At this moment a succession of loud knockings was heard on the
wall at the back of the room, which I should say, by-the-by, was
of stone, and little more than a cave, having been partly formed
out of the solid rock.
“ Is not that some one knocking ?” I inquired; “ perhaps it is Mr.
Hart. We had better see what is the matter.”
' v No, ladies,” said our hostess, with some hesitation, “ it isn’t
anybody—that is, no one in particular; it’s the way of this place.”
“But what, then, is the way of the place?” asked Mrs. Hart,
merrily, and with an evident wish to encourage the poor woman.
But before they could answer, down came the brushes on the wall,
the frying-pan, and sundry other things that had been hung up on
shelves and hooks. The rude door shook violently, and knockings
now resounded from every side of us in quick and irregular
showers.
“ The wind is rising,” said my friend; “ I fear we shall have a
stormy night.”
“ Don’t be skeary, ladies,” said our good hostess, encouragingly,
“ but I s’poose as how I’d just bett say them’s not the wind, but
just the little hammerers; you knows who, marm,” she added,
nodding mysteriously to Mrs. Hart.
“ Oh, yes! I know all about them, Betty,” said my friend,
addressing the mother; u they won’t hurt us, but they seem rather
rough to-night. Don’t they like our being here ?”
“ Lord love ye, marm,” replied the old woman; M it’s all along of
they’s joy to see ye that they’re making this to-do. I think they be
mortal glad to see the young lady. Only look ’ee there, marm!”
WHAT THE LITTLE GOBLINS DID.
I did look, and there, to my astonishment, and I must confess
with a thrill of deeper awe than I could account for or control, I
saw a row of four lights as large as the veritable ostrich’s egg
which adorned the mantle shelf of the humble shanty. These
lights were directly behind me, and I did not see them till, attracted
by the woman’s explanation, I turned round and faced them. They
were bright, globular in form, vapoury in substance, and nebulous,
thickening towards the centre, and deepening in colour almost to a
dull red. The faint outline of a miniature human form appeared
in connection with each light. They were of different sizes; none
of them, however, were higher than four feet. They jumped up
and down, and threw out something which resembled hands toward
me, and as they moved the lights danced and shimmered. These
wonderful things at length retreated into the solid wall behind them,
and the place where they had been was illuminated only by the
light of the wood fire. For two hours the women (who stayed with
us at our earnest request), Mrs. Hart and myself, watched for the
reappearance of these spectral lights in vain. In the interim the
knockings continued, and a few stray gleams like stars shone out
from the other side of the apartment, but immediately vanished. A
kitten which was attempting to sleep in the warmth of the cheerful
fire, would raise its head at the sounds of the knockings, and occa¬
sionally make a dart at the shimmering lights, which, as if per¬
ceiving the animal, would retreat quickly back into the wall. I
repeatedly passed my hand over these walls to ascertain if they
were damp, or whether any chinks were there from which phospho¬
rescent emanations could proceed. The walls were dry, solid, and
smooth, and whilst I was pursuing my examination the knockings
would thrill the solid stone beneath my very hand. At the expira¬
tion of two hours an exclamation of the elder woman called my
attention to the hearth, where two large globular lights were
hoveiing midway between the floor and the tableland just above
the little kitten, who, with back and tail erect, and eyes gleaming
fiery red, manifested the most pitiable signs of terror and amaze¬
ment. ^ •
Once again, and this time far more distinctly, I saw the little
men I had before but imperfectly beheld. They were grotesque
in shape, with round, shining heads, destitute of hair, perfectly
black, and more human about the head than the body. I saw their
faces, and recognised a sort of good-humoured expression in them,
and saw them throw somersaults several times as if for my amuse¬
ment, A strange duck with each little head ended the perform¬
ance, and then they sank into the ground made of planks laid
down upon the rock of which the house was built.
“ There,” cried the younger woman, “ they won’t mislest ye
again, ladies. When they goes down, they never comes again the
night. It’s the end of their game to sink down like that.”
The woman was right. Though at our entreaty both mother
and daughter remained with us all night, sleeping soundly, curled
up on shawls and garments, and though we, lying awake, and—
must I confess it?—shivering and trembling from head to foot,
kept our eyes open, straining them in every direction, and with
bated breath and ears sharpened by fearful anticipation, listened
until we could hear the deep silence of that long, long night—we
neither heard nor saw any more of the “little hammerers.”
The morning came at length. Oh! what an age it was
coming J Mr. Hart joined us as we were waiting for the
morning meal. He* had heard knockings, he said, but con¬
cluded it might be the re-echo of the labourers’ hammers from the
mines so close to us.’ The-miners were not at work, and no ham¬
mering came from them, our host told us, with a significant smile
at the rest of his family. The adventures of the night were now
recounted and talked over. They were not strange, nor even
alarming to the miners. The two lads declared they had “ fine fun
with the hammerers’ lanterns,!’though they acknowledged they had.
never seen the little men, but plenty of others had, they said, and
“ they wouldn’t part company with them for nothing,” for they
were famous guides to the spots where the richest lodes of metal
lay. The women, too, spoke of their appearance with indifference.
“ They came often,” they said; “and though they cut up now and
then, throwing things around like, they were only in fun, and never
did any harm, except to the animals they had.” They thought some¬
how they did not like dogs or cats, for they couldn’t keep any; they
either ran away or d\ed suddenly. They didn’t expect, they added, to
keep this kitten long.” I agreed in this opinion,for judgingof the terror
the poor little thing displayed on the previous night, I was not
surprised, to find it moping in the morning, and averse to touch the
food the boys prepared for it. I found, although- these lights and
knockings were common enough in the mines at times, they only
seemed to come at special periods, and did not frequent or haunt
any other house than the one we visited, and that of old Clamps,
many miles distant. There seemed to be many evidences that
these apparitions, be they what they might, either attached them¬
selves to or made themselves manifest only in the presence of
mediumistic persons. The family we visited were far too ignorant
to understand anything of mediumship, although they were not
unacquainted with the idea and theory of “ ghost-seeing.” They
were not afraid of their well-beloved “ little hammerers,” but they
were all “ terribly scared ” by the occasional manifestations of a
spiritual character, which they narrated to me with a simplicity
which impressed me with a conviction of their veracity.
I have never seen this family and never visited that region since.
My experiences, however, in this connection, do not begin nor
end here.
DEPARTUEE OF M. AKSAKOF AND ARRIVAL OF MR.
MORSE.
Me. J. J. Moese arrived in London from the United States via
Liverpool, last Monday afternoon, and in consequence of the acci¬
dental circumstance of his driving straight from the railway station
to the offices of the National Association, met M. Alexandre Aksakof
ten minutes before the latter closed his final visit to that Institution,
at which he had been a daily visitor during his stay in London.
Mr. Morse looks all the better for his visit to the United States,
and he speaks with a slight American accent.
On Monday night M. Aksakof attended his last seance in London,
as reported in another place. A welded and sound iron ring was
threaded upon his arm by the spirits, while he held the hand of the
medium, Mr. Williams, and their hands were tied together. His
German journal, Psychic Studies, had frequently questioned the pos¬
sibility of this being done, and argued that facts ought not to be
received without a theory to explain them—a rather unscientific
position.
M. Aksakof left London early last Tuesday for St. Petersburg,
after having become highly popular with English Spiritualists
during his residence in this country.
A SEANCE WITH THE BOY MEDIUMS.
On Friday last a seance was given by Mr. Martheze, to some
members and friends of the National Association of Spiritualists,
at 38, Great Russell-street. The mediums were the Bamford
brothers, who had come up on a visit to London from Macclesfield,
as mentioned in the last number of the Spiritualist. The manifesta¬
tions were of an elementary physical character; a musical box
was wound up and set going, stopped, and set on again by some
force apart from the mediums; bells were rung, a candlestick
removed several times from the table to the lap of a lady present,
asnd an iron ring threaded on to the ankle of one of the mediums.
These and similar phenomena constituted the first part of the
seance. Before the second part began most of the company had
departed. Mr. Bamford, the father of the mediums, suggested that
those who remained should have the second sitting, as he considered
the first had not been so satisfactory as usual, so far as test condi¬
tions were concerned. As Dr. and Mrs. Carter Blake were still present,
and were perhaps the strongest sceptics of the evening; that which
followed may be deemed more than usually conclusive. Dr. Blake
sat on one side of the mediums, holding one hand firmly; on the
other side Mr. Blyton and Miss Kislingbury separated the mediums
from their father. Mrs. Blake sat next to her husband. The
musical box, a large and heavy one, was carried across the table
from Mrs. Carter Blake to Miss Kislingbury, two or three times, at
too great a distance from the mediums for them to have had any
hand in moving it. The result of the sitting was the following
getter from Dr. Carter Blake, the well-known anthropologist:—
“28rd October, 1875.
“ Dear Miss Kislingbtjry,—I have much pleasure In testifying my
opinion of the true objective reality of the phenomena which I saw last
night, and which I have no reason to doubt or suspect. 'While suspending
T
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
Oct. .29, 1875.
my judgment as to the cause of these phenontena, I must express my
belief in the honesty and good faitfi of the mediums. — Yours very
sincerely, C. Carter Blakh.”
It is fair to state that the mediumship of the Bamford boys is as
yet in an early stage of development, and therefore it is to be hoped
'that many of the phenomena which at present occur in the dark
may, ere long, be produced in the light. The mediums only began
to sit six months ago, and their mediumship did not show itself
until about two months since. Mr. Martbeze has had them staying
in his house at Brighton for some days, and has had ample proofs
of their genuine power as physical mediums.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
NEXT WEDNESDAY’S SOIREE.
The National Conference for 1875 of the British Association
of Spiritualists will commence next Wednesday with a soiree at
the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, and the
interest of the opening proceedings will be increased by- the cir¬
cumstance that Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known English trance-
medium, will be publicly welcomed at the same meeting, on his
return to London from the United States. The veteran Spirit¬
ualist, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, will preside on the occasion, and
deliver an address. It is not usual to have more than half an
hour’s speaking at these soirees, which are more of a social than of
a formal character; but as Mr. Morse has some of his American
experiences to narrate, an hour altogether may possibly be occu¬
pied by the speakers;
Refreshments will be served at 6.30 p.m.,'and the formal pro¬
ceedings will commence at eight o’clock. As the dark evenings are
coming on, and many friends have returned to town, it will probably
be the first large gathering of London Spiritualists for the coming
season.
The Conference business meetings will take place next Thursday
and Friday, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., on the
premises of the National Association. The proceedings will begin
on each day at 3 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. If the attendance should be
exceptionally large different papers will be read at the same time,
but in different rooms, and the title of each paper under considera¬
tion will be fixed upon the outside of the door of the room in which
it is being read. For further particulars see advertisements.
M. AKSAKOF AND THE RING TEST.
Last Monday night Mr. Williams, as usual, gave a public seance
at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, London, W.C. About twelve persons
were present, including M. Alexandre Aksakof, and Mr. Selwood, of
The Spiritualist newspaper office. The rest of the circle consisted
for the most part of strangers, some of whom were evidently scep¬
tical, from the occasional remarks made during the seance, to the
effect that somebody was walking about the room. The doors,
however, had been locked, and a search made beforehand. The
manifestations throughout were boisterous and fitful, some of them
differing in character to those generally witnessed at Mr. Williams’s
seances.
Before the seance commenced M. Aksakof told Mr. Williams that
he was anxious to have the ring test under unquestionable condi¬
tions, so that he^might carry the evidence to the Professors at St.
Petersburg University, to which Mr. Williams replied that he was
willing to submit to any conditions M. Aksakof desired. Ac¬
cordingly he took a seat next to Mr. Williams, and produced from
his pocket about two yards of tape, one end of which he twisted
five or six times round his own wrist, and tied; and the other end
in like manner tied round Mr. Williams’s wrist, so that about four or
five inches of tape, handcuff fashion, were between each of their wrists,
making it impossible for a ring to pass on either of the wrists thus
tied, without the tape being severed; furthermore Mr. Aksakof
held the hand of Mr. Williams. The ring test was not then
given, but after this part of the seance was over another
sitting was held; at which some five or six persons sat at
the table, including M. Aksakof, who repeated the operation on
Mr. Williams with the tape. The tubes, musical box, and iron
ring, were then lying on the table. The gas was put out and after a
few minutes had elapsed John King spoke. M. Aksakof then
asked him if he could give him the ring test, to which he replied, “ I
think I can.’’ Some ordinary manifestations took place, after which
Mr. Williams seemed to be greatly distressed by the influence, and
John King said: “There, I have managed it for you.” M.
Aksakof said: “ Thank you; I feel the ring on my arm.” This
ended the seance, and M. Aksakof examined and afterwards untied
the tape, taking it and the ring away with him, much pleased with
his success, all present agreeing that it was a thorough test.
RECOVERY OF MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
The following letters are extracted from The New York Herald
of October 9th, and contain news which Spiritualists all the world
over will be delighted to hear.
From the ‘‘Indianapolis Journal" Oct. 5th.
Indiana Hospital for the Insane, Oct. 4th, 1875.
To the Editor of the Journal :—
As I am about to discharge Hon. Robert Dale Owen from hospital
and return him to the world “ restored,” I have thought best to offer
to the public, through the Journal, the accompanying letter from
Mr. Owen to myself, as a better introduction and guarantee of
mental integrity than any assurance of recovery which I could give.
Mr. Owen goes hence to his old home, “ New Harmony,” where he
will continue for a time to “rest from his labours ” under advice; but
I see no reason now why he should not, after a time, resume his
woric with all the vigour and ability incident to his age and habits of
his life. Orpheus Everts*
Indianapolis, Oct. 1st, 1875.
My dear Sir,—Now that you have consented that I shall, in
a week or two, leave this institution, in which I have spent not a
few pleasant and profitable days, allow me to address to you a few
observations suggested by the circumstances in which I have
recently been placed.
When my children, actuated by a single desire for their father’s
welfare, and acting under the advice of older persons, brought me
here, I am not prepared to say that they did an injudicious thing.
In some cases the boldest is also the wisest policy. It is true that
when a distinguished man of letters of my acquaintance, working
for the Harpers, found at last that he had overtasked his brain and
nerves, it was not deemed necessary to seclude him, as I have been
secluded from the world; my incomings and outgoings, and all my
habits regulated and governed, as far as practicable, by the will of
others—he simply “ loafed about ’’ (as he himself afterward ex¬
pressed it to me) for a year or more, warned, when he occa¬
sionally returned to his desk, that the time for resumption had not
, yet arrived.
But I come of a race strong-willed, sanguine, withal somewhat
impetuous; and in my case heroic treatment may have been more
needed than in his.
Napoleon Bonaparte was in the habit of judging men and mea¬
sures by their success; not a bad test, upon the whole, and it
is certain that I have not only got rid of al) dyspeptic symptoms
whatever, but my physical health having very essentially improved
during my stay here, I find myself much more tranquil—less ex¬
citable than when I was placed under your care. Therefore I do
not regret what has happened, except in so far as it may have given
pain or uneasiness to many dear and kind friends, in this country
and in Europe, who, not knowing the exact state of my case, may
have imagined my condition to be lingering, if not hopeless.
No man, under circumstances such as mine, can be a competent
judge of his own past condition; yet it seems to me (taking, I
think, a dispassionate view of what has happened) that my condi¬
tion was not dissimilar to that of the friend alluded to above—
exhaustion of brain and nerve force by overwork at first, and until
what I felt to be arbitrary restraint tended to irritation.
I do not forget, however, that I have inherited (probably from
my good father) a mental tendency toward over-hopefulness, under
which probabilities or possibilities assume the aspect of certainties, the
element of time not being sufficiently taken into account, and I
have observed that this tendency shows itself in me, especially after
illness. Now, I had, during the month of May last, at the Dans-
ville (N. Y.) Water-cure, a severe illness, beginning with fever
confining me to bed for eleven days, and causing me to lose seven¬
teen pounds in weight in the course of twenty days. It was the
only really severe illness that I have had for more than fifty years.
The other great sickness of my life, occurring when I was only ten
or twelve years old, you will find described, and its results stated,
in my little volume of autobiography entitled, “ Threading my
Way,” at pages 122-3. But my recovery to good health in the last
instance has been more rapid than in the first, extending through
four or five months only instead of a year.
Bulwer, who ought to know, says well: “ There is nothing more
salutary to active men than occasional intervals of repose—when
we look within instead of without, and examine almost insensibly
what we have done—what we are capable of doing.”
I, have had proof during the three months of my residence in
this hospital that the above remark is just. I have seen much in
the place, also, that furnished material for new thought, and have
learned much that will benefit me in the future, and, I hope, have
gained many friends in a class which I had rarely, until now, had
such opportunity of studying.
I seem, also, to have made.gain by my seclusion here in the way
of reputation. If a man wishes to be well spoken of by those who
had hitherto slighted or reproved him, he had better either die or
suffer a temporary civic death by confinement in a lunatic asylum.
Be mortis nil nisi bonum—we speak with tender favour of the dead.
This has been amply illustrated by the many newspaper notices of
myself which have fallen under my observation since an inmate of
this institution. I trust that on entering the world again I shall
give no cause for retraction of the good opinions of the press, so
kindly volunteered while temporarily secluded.
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875,
In conclusion, I wish to say, for every reasonable alleviation of
my confinement while subject to your care and authority, I shall
ever owe a debt of gratitude to yourself and to every member of
your family. Egbert Dale Owen.
To Orpheus Everts, M.D., Superintendent of the Indiana Hospital
for the Insane.
“SPIRIT PEOPLE.”
' The following review is from the Morning Advertiser of October
10th:—
“ Spirit People. By William H. Harrison. Harrison, Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, Great Russell-street.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more atten¬
tion than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so far from
being inypressed by the evidence he has brought forward that we
acquit the ‘ spirits ’ of mortals of performing any of the nonsensical
acts with which they are accredited. What can be more absurd
than the following account of a ‘ Spirit working off his sins ? ’
The author and some friends attended a seance, and the spirits
devoted much of their attention to a young gentleman who was an
unbeliever. He was not well, and they ventured to prescribe for
him, and ordered him to take a small bottle of stout every day at
dinner. £ What stout ? ’ the author asked John King, the spirit.
‘ Guinness’s,’ was the prompt reply. Then—as if the aforesaid
John King had indulged freely either before or after giving this
advice—he caught up a roll of paper which had been used as a
speaking tube, and belaboured the unbeliever soundly. Of course,
these little performances were done in the dark, for light always
seems to have the effect cf preventing the wagging of the spirit-
tongues. We read elsewhere that a celebrated medium performed
the feat of taking a red-hot coal from a fire—a feat which the
‘ Eire King of Oremorne ’ would blush to do, on account of its
antiquity. It is probable that many of the persons who have
taken part in these seances have been in that state which is de¬
scribed by medical men as ‘ exalted mental excitement; ’ and,
although we do not wish to throw any doubt on their good faith,
yet we believe they have often allowed their imaginations to run
riot, until they have become as fascinated and as scared as children
in pursuit of a ‘ will-o’-th’-wisp.’ ”
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PRIVATE LIFE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—I have received from a friend of mine the following letter,
describing a series of remarkable manifestations which have recently
occurred in his home circle.
I vouch for the earnest, intelligent, and truthful character of the
whole family.
You will, perhaps, agree with me that the facts related are
valuable at this time, when new theories are springing up to dis¬
credit Spiritualism pure and simple, as you and I have been accus¬
tomed to promulgate it. Benj. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Oct. 25,1875.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
“My family, as you know, consists of myself, my wife, my step¬
son, aged seventeen, and my step-daughter, aged fifteen. Some
months since the latter found she had the power Of turning tables,
and we made this a matter of amusement among ourselves, in the
usual thoughtless way of regarding such a phenomenon. A friend
came in one day and witnessed the table moving about, and he told
us that we were playing with a power which should be treated
more seriously. Wo accordingly, under his direction, formed a
circle in which he and his son joined, and from that time the mani¬
festations became most interesting to all except my step-son, who
ridiculed the whole thing.
“ Two ladies were on a visit with us the second Sunday after
our regular sittings commenced, and whilst we were at tea, on a
bright summer evening, the table began to move, much to the
surprise of all of us, and soon it became so active that we were
obliged to remove the tea-things hastily.
The next day, whilst we were at dinner, the same thing occurred,
and we felt obliged to remove the decanters and glasses. On neither
occasion was such a manifestation invited nor expected, and our visi¬
tors were entirely sceptical as to the cause. At our next sitting, in
the twilight, we were told by raps to put our hands under the table.
One of the ladies did so, and it was at once grasped by a spirit-
hand, which she declared was that of her father. She recognised
it by a crippled finger which in life was pressed into the palm.
“ After this evening the power increased so much that the young
medium became nervous, and refused *to sit again; and we were
obliged to give it up, which we did for two or three months, and
went to the sea-side.
“ On resuming our sittings without her presence, we found that
her sceptical brother was himself a more powerful medium than
his sister, and it is to record the facts which have recently trans¬
pired through his mediumship that I think them worth repeating
to you. These are very numerous, most significant in their cha¬
racter, and they tend conclusively to establish in our minds the reality
of spirit communion.
“ Without troubling you with unnecessary details, knowing that
you are quite familiar with most of the spirit phenomena, I will
confine myself to one or two incidents which I think will interest
you. Last week we had not less than five letters in direct-
writing from one who was in life the dearest member of my family
circle.
“ The identity was established to our minds by familiar expres¬
sions peculiar to him in life, and the exact facsimile of his hand¬
writing and signature.
“ The letters contained most important truths, of which neither
my wife nor myself had any previous knowledge. Among other
things we were invited by the spirit to write any questions in a
sealed letter, and to put the letter in any place we pleased.
“ We did so, and placed it in a drawer in a desk, which we at
once locked, and in the course of the same evening an answer was
returned in writing, which was entirely satisfactory to us. I may
here observe that the medium proves to be clairvoyant, and many
of our questions asked in the dark are at once answered by writing
on the wall in illuminated letters, which, however, are seen by the
medium only.
“But this clairvoyant power is sufficiently established to the
minds of those composing the circle, by the fact that mental ques¬
tions are satisfactorily answered at once.
“After discussing some family matters in this way with the
spirit, he proposed that paper and pencil should be placed on the
medium’s desk in his own room—‘ Turn the gas full on, and I will
write you a letter which will show you both sides of the question.’
“ We at once complied, expecting that we should receive it the
next morning, but in less than five minutes—a time entirely too
short for a letter of three pages to be written by any ordinary
means—the medium knocked at our door and presented the letter
enclosed in an envelope, directed and sealed, the writing and signa¬
ture being the exact counterpart of the spirit’s own hand in life,'
and the argument was concisely put and unanswerable.
“ Many other things have occurred, but nothing so striking and
wonderful as these writing manifestations. We are continuing our
investigations, and if anything new occurs I will inform you. If
you should desire to publish this letter, you will please omit the
mention of our names for the present. Your own attestation of our
position and reliability will no doubt be enough for the public.
You may be assured we are not the victims of a delusion, but that
the facts are stern realities, forced upon our conviction after careful
and deliberate investigation.”
Mrs. Honywood, who returned from the Continent about three
weeks ago, is, we regret to state, obliged by continued ill-health to
leave England again as soon as possible, and will pass the winter
at Cannes.
Nature Spirits.—In one of the numbers of the Buda-Pesth
Society’s Reflexionen, a communication is reported, alleged to have
been given by an order of beings who say that they live in the
woods, in the sunbeams, in flowers, in dew, in water, and in the
mist. One signs itself the “ heat-spirit,” whose office it is to dis¬
tribute warmth, to aid in the production of life, in the growth of
plants, in the ripening of fruit. This class of spirits know nothing
of earthly wisdom and achievements; the names of all men are
alike to them; they only know of the elements and forces among
which they dwell. The male principle of heat is said to be light;
the “heat-spirit” is female to the “light-spirit.” The “ storm-
spirits ” are borne hither and thither on the wings of the wind;
they clarify and purify the atmosphere, driving out the damp,
mephytic, vaporous spirits. Christ could still the tempest, because
the “storm-spirits” were subject to Him. The “air-spirits" are
gentle, beneficent beings, the spirits of tender women. All nature
derives its life from these spirits, who correspond to the nymphs anfi
naiads of the Greeks, and to the gnomes and elves of the Teutons
and Scandinavians. Bad spirits dwell in swamps and morasses,
and cause malaria, resulting in cholera, ague, and infectious
diseases.
A Full-grown Fo*-gjiost.—The story (says the Liverpool
'Albiori) recently published of the mysterious visitor to Ever ton-
crescent—for some time believed to be/a real and veritable ghost,
but at last discovered to be a full-grown fox, measuring three feet
from the snout to the end of his brush—caused considerable wonder
and surprise among all who heard of his capture and death in Dr.
Parson’s cellar. It seems that a person in the neighbourhood,
carrying on business as a manufacturer of aerated waters, lately
reared a litter of foxes. One of these escaped some time since, and
took refuge under the counter of a licensed victualler carrying on
business at the “ Three Loggerheads,” in Richmond-row, much to
the terror of the attendants at the bar, who feared to approach the
fierce and gleaming eyes that shone in the darkness, as it were, with
fire. At last a boy, more courageous than the others who were
permitted to view reynard, went boldly to where he lay coiled up,
and took the animal in his arms without the least attempt on the
fox’s part to resist his removal. From this boy, it is supposed, the
fox escaped, and took refuge among the gardens and buildings
behind the crescent, where for some time he lived on the choicest
specimens of Dr. Parsons’ property, and furnished grounds for the
report that the house was haunted.
Oct. 29, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
iioetrg.
THE SPIRIT’S WARNING.
A Norse Legend, newly rendered into English Verse.
BY NEWTON CROSLAND.
[There are already in print two versions—perhaps more—of this
effective and remarkable ballad, which dates back as far as 1591 a.d.
One appears in the Notes to Scott’s Lady of the Lake; it is crude,
crabbed, and in a dialect repellant to a southern ear. The other
version—unequal in quality—is among Longfellow’s Poems, where
it was published in Aftermath, without the slightest intimation of the
ancient northern source from which it was derived. Of course the
art required, and here merely attempted, in reproducing in transla¬
tion a work of this land, is to combine the terse vigour, the earnest
feeling, the colloquial homeliness, and the simple form of the antique
conception, with the ease, neatness, and lilting euphony of modern
ballad composition. With the view of rendering the transitions of
the story less abrupt, I have ventured to add here and there some
touches, which I fancy the original author, in his present state of
existence and development, will not consider blemishes, as I believe
them to be in keeping with my text.]
Sir Hugh went forth and brought home a wife,
To share the joys and cares of his life.
Within eight years from their wedding-morn,
Six little children to them were born.
At last death summon’d her soul away,
And her body was buried in grand array.
Sir Hugh then married another wife,
But she made his home an abode of strife.
The lady he wed was a dismal dame;
Both proud and remorseless she became.
When into the castle-court drove she.
The six small children were sad to see.
When there they all stood in doleful doubt,
She railed at them sore and thrust them out.
Nor cakes nor mead to the children she gave,
But told them that “ Nothing from her they’d have.”
She took their warm beds of velvet blue,
And said, “ Some straw is enough for you.”
She carried away their'great wax-light,
And said, “Ye must lie in the dark all night.”
The poor little things their sorrows told;
The mother heard them under the mould. ,
When to her there came their cry of woe,
She said, “ I must to my children go."
She implored the Lord with passionate prayer,
That she might succour her infants there.
She was so troubled with earnest grief,
He could not refuse this sweet relief.
The Lord at last gave her leave to go,
But bade her “Beturn when the cock should crow."
‘ When the cock ye hear in the morning prime,
Ye may not abide beyond that time."
Thus helped by heaven to work her will,
There throbbed through her heart a mighty thrill.
With her limbs so strong a spring she gave,
And rent the walls of her marble grave.
Straight through the gloaming away she stole,
Swift with the speed of a loving soul.
When she her old home approached nigh,
The dogs howled loud 'neath the dark’ning sky.
When she arrived at the castle gate,
There was her daughter in piteous state.
“Ye are my daughter, why stand ye here?
How are thy brothers and sisters dear ? ”
“Ye can’t be my mother—she’s fair and red;
Ye are so white—like one from the dead."
“ Oh, how should I be comely and red,
When I so long have been with the dead ? ”
When the mother entered the chamber door,
The six little bairns were weeping sore.
She washed the one and caress'd the other;
She brushed and combed the hair of another.
She dandled the fourth upon her knee,
And spoke-to the fifth so tenderly.
The babe she lifted and fondly prest,
And sweetly nourished it at her breast.
Then she turned to her first-born, mournfully.
And said, “ Bid your father come here to me."
When he came before her in grewful trim,
Thus in warning mood she spoke to him.
“ I left, for my children, cakes and mead;
Ye give them nothing but water and bread.
“ I left them many a great wax-light;
Ye make them lie in the dark all night.
“ I left them warm beds of velvet blue;
With straw ye starve them and make them rue.
“ If ever I come on this errand again.
Tby fate, I vow, will be woeful then."
He fled from her in repentant fright,
And told what happen’d that haunted night.
Little Jenny, the maid, who lurked in bed,
Upraised herself from her pillow, and said,
“Trust them to mv care, dear lady, I pray;
To thy children I’ll do the best I may.”
With hushing look and listening smile,
The mother lingered and watched awhile.
Hark, the cock doth crow! The ghost doth glide
Away, in her narrow vault to hide.
To her selfish kin her mission is o’er;
Their hardened hearts are touched to the core.
Whenever they hear the watch-dogs yell,
They feed the motherless children well.
Whenever they hear the blood-hounds bark,
They fear the ghost is come through the dark.
When the ban-dogs howl in the evening gloom, .
They think the dead has riven her tomb.
And they cross themselves with a holy fear,
Lest the Warning Ghost should again appear,
For they shudder to think the dead are so near.
j Spiritual Magazine.
©orresponuence.
[Qrtat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
REINCARNATION SPECULATIONS.
Sir,—Here is another argument in favour of my favourite
theory about reincarnation. I translate it for you, from the Revue
Spirits for October, page 330:— *
(i ********
A young and distinguished lady was sitting near us in the omnibus,
holding on her lap a charming little girl of fifteen months, who
playfully stretched out her tiny arms at me. Fearing to displease
the mother I hesitated to take her, till an encouraging smile at last
induced me to do so.
“ She was pleasing and graceful. At that age children are
usually lovely, and this one especially had such a playful, amiable
air about her that one felt at once drawn to her. I said to the lady,
‘ It is unnecessary to ask you if you love her ; there can exist no
doubt on that subject.’
“ ‘ Yes, sir, I love her tenderly,’ was the reply. ‘ She is gentle,
amiable. Besides, she is doubly entitled to my affection. You may
be well astonished, if I tell you, that this is the second time that I
am her mother ! My strange words tell only the exact truth, for I
am neither crazy nor hallucinated; I put forward nothing without
certain proof. I will explain myself, and you may judge whether
I am wrong or not. I had a charming little girl, whom death took
away from me when she was five years and a half old. In her last
moments the little angel, seeing my tears and my profound despair,
said to me, ‘ Good mamma, don’t grieve so. Take courage. I do not
go away for ever; I shall come back next April, on a Sunday.’
Well, in the month of April, on a Sunday, I gave birth to this little
Ninny, which you have the kindness to caress. All those who knew
the first Ninny recognise her in the second. She as yet only says,
1 Papa, mamma; ’ but judge of my joy, of my surprise when, last
week, while thinking of the former and kissing this one, with the
words, ‘ Oh yes! you are really Ninny,’ I heard her answer, ‘ It is
me.’ May I, sir, doubt after this ?—Floux Mary, 5, Rue Vau-
villiers.” Emile, Prince op Wittgenstein.
Vevey, Switzerland, 11th October, 1875.
Sir,—With your permission I will state my opinion on reincar¬
nation. Discuss it I will not in its present foundationless condition.
As a Spiritualist fighting in behalf of the fundamental truths of
our common cause, I am most anxious that the theory of reincarna¬
tion—as a theory merely—should not gain ground on the minds of
the unwary.
In answer to reincarnationists who may ask whether I have care¬
fully examined the subject, my reply is simple—there is nothing to
examine. They have no true philosophy, because they have no
•facts on which to build. With theories apart from well-attested
facts I can have nothing to do. I am not- opposed to reincarnation,
because there is nothing to oppose, save a factless theory, and fact¬
less theories can have no connection with practical men.
I became a Spiritualist from personal and testimental knowledge,
and am equally ready to accept reincarnation on the same terms.
Spiritualism has been accepted from the sheer force of its facts, and
nothing but its facts. Let us never lose sight of this sovereign
point; but keep it as a mental beacon to guard us from the
treacherous rockp of false theories.
What is the aspect of the reincarnation theory judged from the
scientific standpoint ? It is simply a theory thrust on the world
after the false system of Aristotle, i.e., a theory the outcome of
opinion, instead of one from the inexorable logic of facts, after the
true Baconian method.
,As a true Spiritualist, I am deadly opposed to all foundationless
theories, beliefs, and mere opinions, when they are set forth in the
light of knowledge. The essential virtue, or necessity of incarna¬
tion is the making and fashioning of the individual; therefore the
idea of reincarnation is entirely gratuitous. However, apart from
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875.
the why of the question, the reincarnationists beg their premises
in the most absolute manner. Before they write books let them
bring half a dozen individuals now living who can demonstrate in
the most accurate manner that they have been incarnated in a
former body. If reincarnationists tell me that such proof is im¬
possible while the physical body is awake, but when the body is
asleep the spirit regains its identity, my reply is that they have no
facts to support that theory, and are compelled to resort to the
most flimsy arguments to strengthen their position.
Reincarnation must be ruled out of court till it can bring some
ositive evidence on which to base its claim. Till that time! arrives
earnestly trust all Spiritualists will devote their time and energy
to the real, the proveable, and the practical, and not drift into
vague hypothesis on any question; for unless the butterfly return
to the chrysalis, and the* bird to its shell, I shall not consider
that mankind will derive much benefit from the theory of rein¬
carnation.
I trust you will kindly insert this my first letter, and probably
the last on the subject, < J. Mahony.
Castro-place, Ford-street, Birmingham,
Oct. 11th, 1875,
CREDULITY AND SCEPTICISM.
Sir,—It seems that my excellent friend Dr. "Wylde is determined
to test the temper of Spiritualists, and to see whether they have
acquired through Spiritualism the excellent quality of forbearance.
“ To bear and forbear” was the constant admonition of Epictetus.
I trust they will not be found wanting, and knowing what they
know, they can well afford to be generous. It is well to begin
with doubt so long as you end in certainty, but if it lands you into
an obstinately sceptical frame of mind it is a damaged intellect
you have acquired by it. Now, having served for a year on the
committee of the Dialectical Society to investigate the alleged facts,
surely I must be able to say whether a heavy table did move, as
reported, without any one present using legerdemain, or being able,
from the position in which we were placed, to even touch the table
without being seen to do so by all present. What is the value of
Dr. Wylde’S confidence in my sagacity if he cannot rely upon my
evidence in so simple a matter as this ? In Dr. Wylde’s view the
question is just this: Were we all rogues or positive fools ?—for
that is the plain English of it. Dr. Wylde must know that “ leger¬
demain” is a very difficult art, and to suppose multitudes of persons
could perform the reported phenomena in that way is a belief and
an amount of credulity in people’s cleverness and practice and
skill which is only exceeded by my friend’s scepticism. But I do
believe that there is honour in the world as well as ability, and that
a large number of the witnesses reporting' phenomena that I have
not myself seen are quite as trustworthy in every respect as
myself and as for the “higher” phenomena so called, one matter
in nature is not higher than another; the only question is as to
the fact, and for this cause we must wait upon induction, when a
sufficient number of facts have occurred, though many think we
have already a superabundance. As to the question of what facts
are to be referred to in a spiritual journal or society, I should say
broadly all such facts concerning the nature of man not specially
treated of by other societies or professions, and the principle would
hold good in respect to anthropology, though the line cannot be
very nicely drawn, yet may be sufficiently understood. The chief
philosophical aim must ever be co discover new facts, and to trace
effects to their causes, in order to discover the laws concerned. Dr.
Wylde is very clever, and his works most learned and deeply in¬
teresting—works not only to read but to keep by you to refer to,
but his own views are speculative, and his notion about force a
mere unintelligible abstraction and, I may say, fiction. He and
Mr. Charles Bray, of Coventry, row in the same boat, but with
rather different sculls. Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
In a friendly letter to Miss Kislingbury, Secretary to the National
Association of Spiritualists, the Baroness von Vay writes from
Hungary, where she is now on a visit:—“ In coming here we had
a nice seance at our Hall in Pesth; there was a trance-speaker, and
a spirit wrote some messages through me. In returning through
Pesth, we shall probably attend the Sunday Services at the Hall.”
We London Spiritualists are behind the Buda-Pesth Society in
the matter of a “ hall” of our own.
Sunday Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday last
Dr. Sexton delivered two discourses at the Cavendish Rooms,
Mortimer-street, Regent-street; that in the morning being on the
“ Relation of Christianity to Worship,” and that in the evening on
the “ Religion of Astronomy.” The ground occupied in the evening
discourse was firstly a cursory glance at modern astronomy,
secondly the support which astronomy furnishes to religion, and
thirdly a reply to a sceptical objection based upon astronomy, which
has been frequently urged against Christianity, and which had been
largely dealt with in the astronomical discourses of Dr. Chalmers.
The audience seemed pleased with the manner in which the subject
was treated. On Sunday next the subject of the morning’s discourse
will be the “ Relation of Christianity to Worship,” and of the even¬
ing’s the “ Religion of Geology.”
^rabtuctai jBUtos.
LIVERPOOL.
RECEPTION OP MR. J. J. MORSE IN LIVERPOOL.
On Friday evening last a public reception inaugurated by the
Liverpool Psychological Society, was tendered to Mr. J. J. Morse
on his return from America. There was a large attendance. Mr.
John Lamont presided. Among the gentlemen on the platform were
Mr. J. Priest (Secretary to the Liverpool Psychological Society),
Mr. Casson, Mr. James Coates, and Mr. John Chapman.
Mr. John Lamont, in opening the business of the evening, said
that the assembly had met to extend the right hand of fellowship
towards Mr. Morse on his return from his successful lecturing tour
in the United States. The meeting might be considered to be in a
great measure an impromptu and friendly greeting, rather than one
devised to follow the formal course usually adopted on such occa¬
sions, seeing that his reception in London would be more in accord¬
ance with the general rule. He believed that there was no other
man more welcomed by the Psychological Society than Mr. Morse
under ordinary circumstances, but after returning from his labours
in the far west there was, of course, additional interest. The
meeting had been got up hurriedly, and ho was glad to find such a
large assembly had responded to the call, for he believed in conse¬
quence that they had not forgotten Mr. Morse during his absence.
He had much pleasure in calling upon Mr. Casson to move the first
resolution.
Mr. Casson moved “That this meeting tenders to Mr. Morse its
cordial greetings on his return from America.” He continued that
in speaking his own feelings in the matter, he was 'sure that they
would find a re-echo among those present, and especially from those
who were Spiritualists. He was very pleased to see Mr. Morse
back again. There could be but one idea in reference to the good
effect of the teachings put forward by Mr. Morse’s spirit guides,
they being of a highly moral character, benefitting mankind in every
respect. (Applause.)
Mr. John Chapman seconded the resolution, and welcomed Mr.
Morse.
The above resolution was put to the meeting and carried with
enthusiasm.
Mr. John Priest moved a second resolution to the effect, “ That
this meeting expresses its deep sympathy with Mr. Morse and his
guides in the glorious work in which they are engaged.” He said
that he had heard Mr. Morse deliver an address under influence
about two years since, haying at the time a strong prejudice against
the subject, believing that the whole matter arose from simple hal¬
lucination or a gross imposture on the part of the medium himself.
He was, however, compelled afterwards to admit that whatever
might be the power which produced the effects, an adequate explan¬
ation CRuld not be furnished by the ordinary known causes of other
phenomena. The speech he heard on that occasion was the first
incentive presented him to enquire further into the matter, and he
was happy to say that he now believed Spiritualism provided the
means of throwing a flood of light upon the most overwhelmingly
important question that ever occupied the attention of man—that of
a future life (Hear, hear). He was pleased to find that such a
marked improvement of this power had grown upon Mr. Morse,
and was exceedingly glad to have the opportunity of welcoming
him home again as the instrument through which that glorious
power was manifested (Applause).
Mr. J ames Coates seconded the resolution. He liked its terms; they
were unmistakable—“ its sympathy with Mr. Morse and his guides
in the good work they were engaged upon.” Their voices had been
heard throughout the country making deep impressions which cer¬
tified the value of trance mediumship. He thought the movement
was one which met the requirements of the day. It gave facts to
those who required facts; hence the scientific basis of the move¬
ment ; but were this all it gave, it would pot be universally satis¬
factory ; the pent up aspirations of the human heart demanded
something more, they required a philosophy and it gave it, and it
was through the organisation of such labourers as Mr. Morse that it
was made manifest. He was pleased to take part in according
hearty sympathy to Mr. Morse and his guides that evening.
Mr. Ainsworth supported this resolution at some length.
Mr. Morse then rose amid great cheering and said: Mr. Chair¬
man and friends, I really do not know which is the most disagree¬
able sensation, pain or pleasure. The last time I had the privilege
of speaking before you my heart was overflowing. I was preparing
to start upon a journey of 3,000 miles, and it was like tearing my¬
self away from you. The cordiality you tendei towards me this
evening, produces a similar effect upon me. I am sure I do not
know whether I deserve all this. I have only endeavoured to be
faithful, and if in doing that I merit your kind fraternal greetings,
I thank God that I have had the ability and strength to do so. I
can assure you that I love Spiritualism more than I did twelve
months ago, and I mean to labour for Spiritualism while I have
strength in my body and a thought in my brain, irrespective of the
praise or censure of anybody. The first resolution was indeed a
pleasant one, and to hear the words of welcome was a glad surprise
to my heart. The second resolution was even a better and a more
pleasing surprise, for if you had left my spirit guides out in the
cold, I should have felt grieved_at the want of consideration for
Oct. 29, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
those far more deserving of it than myself; they have stood by me
in the day of small things, as well as in the day of great things. I
accept most gratefully and feelingly the resolutions you have pro¬
posed, seconded, supported, and endorsed', and return you one and
all my sincere and heartfelt thanks for the kind reception you have
given me this evening. (Cheers.")
Mr.. Morse then gave a brief statement of his varied ex¬
periences in America, after which he was controlled by his spirit
guide, Sein Sion Tie, who said that it was pleasing to him to have
the opportunity of controlling the medium once again to greet his
brothers and sisters in the material life on this side of the ocean.
He had been separated from.them for a time, and, like the medium,
he had not forgotten them in his absence. He had laboured through
the instrumentality of that medium for the elevation and emanci¬
pation of the human race from the enslaving creed and dogmatic
doctrine which held so destructive and baneful an influence over
the community in the present day. To do this was ever his aim and
object, bringing his best thoughts to bear upon the subject, and
uttering them in the clearest manner possible. He was overjoyed to
hear the words of sympathy and welcome which ho felt were ex¬
tended in the spirit of the glowing consciousness of universal truth,
justice, and love, coming from the depths of the human heart. He
would wish them all prosperity in the work they had undertaken,
urging them to go forward and earn the glorious immortality that
awaited them in the future, resting assured that every man who
felt his own God within his own breast, need not fear the danger of
everlasting torment and trouble overtaking him. He would
return thanks for the sympathy and cordiality manifested by the
assembly.
Some jocular remarks from the “ Strolling Player,” and the
usual votes of thanks, brought the proceedings to a close.
THE PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION.
Mr. Morse gave a seance at the Psychopathic Institution, on
Saturday last; about thirty persons were present, and everything
passed off well. He also lectured in Liverpool last Sunday after¬
noon and evening. After the address on Sunday evening ho
exhibited a fine pigeon, which he said had been brought by spirits
to a dark seance in the United States, at which seance he was present.
A full-sized pencil drawing of the bust of his chief control, Tien
Sien Tie, executed by Mr. Anderson, an American clairvoyant and
painter, was exhibited in the hall.
SOUTHSEA.
SPIRIT ARMS AND FINGERS.
In the course of an article in the Hampshire Telegraph of Oct.
16th, Mr. W. H. Davis, Engineer, R.N., says:—“ I was holding
the wrist of Dr. Monck, my arm entwined in his, and my ear within
a few inches of his mouth, listening to him quietly breathing
through his nostrils, and the occasional gurgling of the water in
his mouth. Suddenly 1 felt conscious of a presence behind mo. I
tried to dismiss the idea, but another inquirer expressed the same
feeling, and I looked anxiously over my shoulder in the darkness.
Everything was still, but I felt that something overshadowed me.
'I felt it while I resisted the influence with all the strength of my
mind; but it was no longer mere consciousness or impression when
a baud grasped me by the shoulder and passed down my back.
Sensible that I now might have an opportunity of ascertaining
what this overshadowing influence was, and thinking that possibly
I might now find the secret of the voices in the air, I shook off the
feeling of dread the slow, silent touch occasioned me, and when an
arm was leisurely placed around my neck, and a hand touched my
cheek, I was sufficiently self-possessed and alive to the occasion to
seize the fingers of the handjbetween my teeth. I am at a loss how
to describe the consequence of this test as to the nature of the
hand; but while aware that my mouth was occupied by a strange
substance, my teeth met through it as if it had been air.
I kept my teeth closed for several seconds, until I assured
myself that I held nothing between them, and then expel¬
ling the “ fingers ” from my mouth, I caught quickly at the
coarse material in which I felt the arm was clad. Then I
found I had between my teeth that which an hour or so before I
would have pronounced to be woollen material, but I had so recently
found that ‘ things are not what they seem,’ that I hesitate to say it
was cloth of any kind. However, of whatsoever nature the ma¬
terial may have been, I held it firmly between my teeth and deter¬
mined that I would have a specimen of it. But it was steadily
drawn from me until, fearing for my teeth, I surrendered to the
strength of the material. I reflect that most teeth would be tried
in a struggle with stout cloth. I was deceived by the hand, and
this is no phantom arm; so, accusing myself of not having made
the most of my opportunities and excited by the failure of my two
attempts, I, disregarding the conditions, quitted my hold upon my
neighbour’s hand and felt at the first touch that the arm still rest¬
ing on my shoulder was apparently a limb throbbing with nervous
life. And yet, in my search by touch for the body to which I now
felt sure it was attached, I had a strange experience. Unwillingly
I say it; but that arm was not attached to mortal body, for while
firm and muscular at the wrist, at the elbow it was full, but yield¬
ing, and beyond that ended ih—vacancy. Twice I assured myself
of this before the hand was withdrawn, and then looking upwards
where I felt the dread presence to be, I saw the faintly luminous
outline of a human ear and cheek, and heard a ripple of chuckling
in the air. Several of the sitters explained that they were touched;
and we were informed by Wheeler’s voice that he saw- the form
of a little girl just behind the chair of a lady on Dr. M.’s right.
He was asked to give the name and description, but he only replied,
‘ It is a little girl, and she seems at home.’ The lady near whom the
figure was said to be, assuming that, if the theory of the Spiritual¬
ists be true, the form might be that of a young relative deceased,
called it by name, and said, ‘ If it is you, touch me, dear.’ Instantly,
in a startled tone, she exclaimed,11 have been touched.’ Others of
the family were also touched at request, and three rapid notes were
struck upon one of the instruments overhead. Upon a hymn being
sung, of which this little child had been fond, we heard a girlish
voice joining in the air. But this was interrupted by exclamations,
when a brighter light than we had yet seen rose from outside the
sitters, hovered overhead, and gradually assumed the shape of a
portion of a child-like hand. It passed slowly round and across
the table, fully in our sight, and, whatever its origin, I believe it to
have been the self-luminous fingers of a tender little hand. Many
questions were put to the voices as to the condition of things in the
world beyond the grave: and I suppose in most cases it is the desire
to know the secrets of the grave which induces the curious to take
part in these inquiries.”
A WONDERFUL SEANCE.
The Isle of Wight Express contains the following:—We have no
intention of speculating on the various theories which have been
propounded. Our task is to describe the proceedings at a seance on
Monday evening at the house of a gentleman residing at Southsea.
The party consisted of nine, one of them was a lady, and several
are well-known in the town. About the drawing-room in which
they were assembled there was nothing peculiar, except that a
dark blind had been fastened across the bay window, with a view
to total exclusion of light, the necessity for which is explained
below. An ordinary dining-table occupied the centre of the room,
round which the party were seated. Dr. Monck, formerly a Baptist
minister, and now described as “ a powerful medium for physical
manifestations,” was at length introduced. The shifting of a seat
or two, and the lowering of the gas, were the work of a few seconds.
The party were directed to place their hands flat on the table. This
done, a series of raps was distinctly heard, and “ Test the raps ”
was spelt. A light was procured, and two glasses placed on the
floor, Dr. Monck standing on the top of them, supported on either
side by one of the party, the object being (he said) to show that the
noises were not produced by electricity. The knocks continued,
the only difference being that they were removed from the table to
the floor. On the party resuming their seats, the table was again
rapped. The conversation was then resumed. “ Did the spirit
know anybody present ? ” “ Yes,” and the name of Mr. T. was
spelt. “ Paralysis ” and “ withered indeed’’were the next utter¬
ances. Further information was desired by Mr. T., but the only
communication he received was that he must not ask
questions. Presently, however, the medium became “ paralysed,”
and in tones the most sepulchral, told the story of a man who had
defrauded a sailor, and, on protesting his innocence, had expressed
a desire that he might be “ paralysed ” if the statement were not
true, whereupon his arms dropped powerless by his side. A legend
of this kind had, it was stated, long been in circulation in Mr. T.’s
family. The next spirit introduced was only recognisable by her
ejaculations of “ My dear, dear daughter! My dear, dear
daughter! ” These, however, were the terms in which Mrs.
F., the only lady present, was sometimes addressed by her
deceased mother; and she sank in hysterics on the table. An
accordion, which had been borrowed for the occasion, mani¬
fested a propensity for creeping towards the medium. "Raps
would sometimes be heard inside, or a glass of water placed on
the top would exhibit an inclination to dance. An attempt was
made to stop these freaks of the instrument, but Mrs. F. went off
into a “ trance,” and was revisited by her mother. A dark seance
—without, as hitherto, any intervals of light—followed. A com¬
plete circle of hands was formed, Mrs. F. being on one side of the
medium, and Mr. T. on the other. During the singing of “ Shall
we meet at the river ? ” or “ We sing of the realms of the blest,” a
guitar, which had been borrowed for the occasion, sprang from the
table and floated in the faces of the company, rudely upsetting a
glass of water into the lap of the lady. At the request of Mr. C.
each glass of the chandelier was tapped, and as many different notes
produced. One or two persons also declared that they had been
patted on the cheek by strange hands, and on the gas being re¬
lighted the hand of Mrs. F. was found through the back of the
chair, although it was said contact with the medium had never been
broken. An iron ring which had been lying on the table was found
on her wrist as a bracelet. Nails were also driven through a hard
and thick board, and strange voices—Dr. Monck’s mouth was at
the same time filled with water—were heard. Midnight had long
passed when the interview with the “ spirits ” terminated.—Hamp~
shire Telegraph.
ACCRINGTON!
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
The mesmeric entertainments by Messrs. Coates and Meredith
have been continued every evening during the week in the Peel
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 29, 1875.
Institution. Mr. Coates is the lecturer and mesmerist, and some
very surprising phenomena have been produced, evidently without
trickery. On Tuesday evening Mr. Coates performed what is
known as the rigidity experiment. A man is made rigid, appa¬
rently by the simple motion of Mr. Coates’s hands down his sides,
and then placed, with his head on one chair and his feet on another
at full stretch. Dr. Brown, of Burnley, and Mr. Oatlow, druggist,
of Chujrch, were called up as a committee of inspection, and the
body was made so rigid and stiff that they and the lecturer sat upon
the man. A most singular experiment was then performed. The
man’s head and neck were demesmerised, the man was awoke to
consciousness, and could talk and laugh at his novel position, but
not a muscle could he move beyond his neck. When laid upon the
floor the demesmerising was carried as far as the chest, and the
man’s body was lifted partially off the floor, evidently in a position
whi ch under ordinary circumstances could not be maintained for
any length of time without pain. When relieved the man said he
suffered nothing during the experiment. On Thursday evening
three boys who had been brought out of the audience were similarly
dealt with, and allowed to be inspected in the ante-room immedi¬
ately afterwards by a number of gentlemen. On Wednesday a
“ subject” was thrown into all the contortions of a cataleptic fit,
and Mr. Coates showed the absurdity of slapping the hands or
throwing water into the patient’s face. By placing one hand on
the forehead and the other beneath the base of the brain, and press¬
ing gently, relief might be. afforded in most cases by any person,
but particularly so when the temperature of the two bodies was
pretty equal.—Accrington Times.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
THE CHIEF NEWCASTLE MEDIUMS AT ONE SEANCE.
On the evening of Oct. 21st, about five-and-forty members of the
Newcastle Spiritualist Society and their friends met at Weirs Court,
for the usual Thursday evening seance. The large number was
caused no doubt by the fact of “ Benny ” the week previous bringing
his medium out of the cabinet, and it included Mr. Armstrong (the
president), Mr. T. P. Barkas, Mr. Mould, Mr. Blake, Mr. and Mrs.
Petty, Master Willie Petty, and Miss Coaltman; the latter generally
leads the singing and gives a few solos to enliven the time. Miss
Annie Fairlamb and others were, also present. Mr. Armstrong
occupied a seat on the right of the cabinet, Mrs. Petty and Miss
Fairlamb seats immediately on the left; the rest of the company,sat
in a semicircle.
Miss Wood entered the cabinet a little after eight, and after
becoming entranced and talking a little while with the company,
Miss Fairlamb entered the cabinet to add to the power; she remained
therein about a quarter of an hour, then came out, and Mrs. Petty
entered. At nine o’clock a tall white draped figure appeared at
the centre of the curtains of the cabinet, but would not come out,
the light being too strong; it was eventually lowered a little, and
after several attempts it gradually came out into the centre of the
circle; the figure was recognised as “Emma” by those who had seen
her before; her height was about the same as that of Mrs. Petty,
but her figure was apparently more slender; she was barefooted
and walked about in different positions to show herself; her face
was not covered by drapery, but the light was not sufficient to
distinguish the features. She stretched out her right arm, and the
drapery extended to the floor; by a movement she threw this across
her left shoulder, and then extended her left arm in a similar
manner with the same result; she then, as if in an attitude of prayer
knelt on the floor and gradually diminished in size, that it seemed
to all appearance as if she would dematerialise entirely, but she did
not. She gradually increased in height to about three feet, when
several persons exclaimed “ Is it Poena? ” which it apparently was,
judging by the height, but the figure gradually enlarged to its
former size, and walking back towards the cabinet, seated itself in
the chair vacated by Mrs. Petty and next to Miss Fairlamb, and there
she remained for perhaps ten minutes, hardly visible, because she
was close to the light-coloured wall, and the light was bad; but on
inquiry of Miss Fairlamb afterwards, she stated that she was
simply seated in a reclining attitude in the chair, and that she had
her hand in that of the spirit, and at one time her arm round the
waist of the figure. The figure eventually retired into the cabinet,
and immediately there came out another form, in attitude and ges¬
ture quite different, and was immediately recognised as “ Benny ”
by*those who had seen him on more than one occasion. Ho walks
with a bold, heavy, masculine step, sometimes almost a trot, and on
this occasion his first performance was to take hold of Miss Fair¬
lamb and walk round the circle, at one time putting himself in the
attitude of a decrepid old man being led by his daughter. His next
performance was to go into the cabinet and bring out Miss Wood.
This he did by almost carrying her; in fact, she was in his power
more than a lady is when walking with a partner, her head hung on
his shoulder, and he almost ran with her round the circle. He did
it a second time, and several of the company cried out—“ Bring out
both mediums at once, Benny!” others expressed their applause by
clapping hands.
On Benny retiring again all was silent in the cabinet for some
time—perhaps a quarter of an hour—Avhen out came Benny again,
this time with the heavy form of Mrs. Petty, which he let drop
heavily in the vacant chair, and then he retired, the time being now
nearly half-past ten. Benny and Mrs. Petty seemed both of the same
size, as he led her out. On inquiry of Mrs. Petty after the seance
was over, she stated she had no recollection of anything^that had
occurred, but she was much exhausted. Much conversation took
place after the seance on the phenomena witnessed; some were in
ecstacies, others not satisfied because both mediums were not
brought out at once. One was not satisfied because Mis? Fairlamb
picked up a piece of drapery left by the spirit-form and put it in the
cabinet. Another thought that such wonderful phenomena ought
to be recorded, with the signatures of all present and the state¬
ments of the mediums, and so ended an eventful evening.
Fob. latest particulars relating to the testimonial to Mr. Harrison,
see the advertisement on another page.
Sunday Lectubes at Notting Hill.—Mr. W. H. fievill, once
a clergyman of the Church of England, but now a freethought
lecturer, is giving addresses every-Sunday morning at Ladbroke
Hall, Ladbroke-grove, Netting Hill. Premising in his address last
Sunday that actual knowledge was the only sure basis of belief, he
thus alluded to Spiritualism: “ It is being admitted even by those
who are not favourable to Spiritualism that there are facts in it
which can no longer be ignored. The present interpretation of
them by Spiritualists may prove false, but certain it is that they
await explanation at the hands of science. These facts are in the
experience of a large class of men, our equals in intellectual de¬
velopment and culture. One would be only too glad if the main
position of Spiritualism should be established, i.e., that there is a
prolonged life for man out of the visible into the invisible world.
Without some such proof as Spiritualism professes to offer there
seems to be no hope whatever of our being able to cherish any¬
thing like a conviction of an immortal life; but if this main fact of
Spiritualism should bo proved, leaving aside that which is vain and
silly in it, there will then be a stronghold for faith in an immortal
life such as the world has never known before. I for one must
suspend my judgment in respect to this question. I am not yet in
a position to comprehend one way or the other. But there are those
who claim to have daily experience of the fact that spirits live in
an invisible world, claim it, indeed, as part and parcel of their daily
life. Such men may be in possession of faculties with which ordi¬
nary mortals are not gifted, or it may be simply that I have de¬
veloped an attitude of mind not favourable for receiving impres¬
sions thereon. I ought to say that the true Spiritualist makes no
distinction between the natural and the supernatural. He does not
look upon spirits as living in a world definite and separated from
the natural, but rather regards the universe as one undivided whole.
It seems to me that this question about which I know nothing is
pushing itself more and more to the front, and these so-called facts
upon which it takes its stand demand more and more imperatively
a fair and candid solution.” .
Mbs. Evebitt at D Alston.—An agreeable surprise was in store
for the members of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism on Tuesday evening last, when Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Everitt paid a long-promised visit to its rooms at 74, Navaripo-
road, for the purpose of giving a seance through the well-known
mediumship of Mrs. Everitt. The members present were Mrs. M.
Theresa Wood, Mr. It. Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. Charles Lee, Capt.
James, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Misses Caroline and Nina Corner,
Mr. Bichard Cocker, Miss Hannah Blyton, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. F.
A. Downes, and Mr. Thomas Blytoa, hon. secretary. The seance
was opened by singing, after which the order of the sitters was
arranged by raps, and various appropriate passages of Scripture
selected to be read by Mr. Everitt. The light was then put out,
and various hymns were sung in the course of the sitting. Deli¬
cious perfumes were frequently wafted over the circle, and bright
spots of light wore observed flitting about over the table; while
various members at a distance from the medium were touched by
hands. The voice of one known at Mrs. Everitt’s seances by the
name of Znippy was heard to great advantage, and maintained an
interesting dialogue with the various sitters, exciting much merri¬
ment by means of quaint repartees. A roll of paper was taken and
knocked against the ceiling, and at the same time rappings were
made freely on the floor and table. The curtains and windows
were brushed down, and a luminosity was clearly observable near
the ceiling while this was being done—a proceeding, as Znippy
informed the circle, to prepare for the arrival of John Watt. At
length a peculiar tramping sound, as of a horse galloping, was
heard, and shortly the well-known voice of John Watt saluted the
company, and afforded an opportunity for some instructive remarks
in reply to various questions from members of the circle. The
seance closed at ten o’clock.
ANSWEBS TO COEKESPONDENTS.
Cobeections—In “ A Sketch in Light Colours,” published in the
Spiritualist of 13th August, for “ rest-homes ” in third line, read
“ rest-hours.” For “ childish ” in the sixth line read “ childlike.”
In the seventh line for “willing” read “gentle and willing.”
Before “ vocabulary ” at the end of first paragraph supply
“ sympathetic.” In line four of paragraph three, for “ wondrous ”
read •“ pondrous.” Second column, line two after “ earth ” insert
a comma.
Got. 29, 1875,
THE SPIEITUALIST,
ui
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin It. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn. Esq.
Sir Ohas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.L
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
N. F. Da we, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F. B.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and oiher
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly' due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that for a special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last tnree years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that # subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, woich shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to enter their names, ad¬
dresses, and the amount on this form, and to return it immediately to
Martin B. Smith, Esq.. 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.O.
List of subscriptions to October vbth.
Mr. Martin B. Smith “   £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn   50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     50 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  20 0 0
A Friend  20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod      20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe    15 0 0
Sir Charles Isbam, Bart  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A     5 5 0
Mr, O. F. Varley, F.R.S  5 0 0
Mr, Eugene Crowell, M.D r  5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe.:....  5 0 0
Mr, Charles Massey  6 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald  5 0 0 _
Mrs. Honywood       2 2 0 *
Mr. Morell Theobald      2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent  2 0 0
Dr. Baikie       2 0 0
Miss Douglas      2 0 0
Mr. Geo. King    110
Mr. F. A. Binney    110
Mr. J. Coates  110
Mrs. Maltby  110
Mrs. Kislingbury  1 1 o
Mr. B. W. Pycock    110
Mr. B. Coleman    110
Mr. B. Fitton    110
Major Menars    110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese     110
Rev. W. Woitear     1 i o
Miss Whltear  1 1 l o
Mr. C. E. Williams     110
Mr. W. M. Buchanan      i o 0
Miss E. D. Ponder   10 0
A Subscriber   10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee       0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp   0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald    0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock     0 10 0
Mr. Geo Bljton.....'  0 10 0
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM:, PSYCHOLOOf, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT BUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also- contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D. C. L, This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and Witchcraft The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub
lished.'and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature : Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d. iMvi)
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William .Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon ana
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation c t
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this bookiu “ The Spiritualist” waste the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
iO each other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
, of the materialisation of Spirts in England and America during the past few
' years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religipn,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct, 29, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOL0GY.—Continued.
"WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON D^YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer ” s-d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . • • » . 16 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . ... 7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . . . .70
The Seer. „ III, „ , , '..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . . i .76
The Thinker. V. „ . . / .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Ayabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , .40
History and Philosophy of Evil . 1 . . . . ..... 4 0
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age . . . . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse ... . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .. . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . .60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . ,.26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . ; ' . .30
Morning Lectures . . ... .,.76
Cju Spiritalisf U.etospp,er.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS,:—Half-a-orown for
A-' the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence, for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” Is a very good medium for advertisements, because'it'circu-
1 ates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually .tom
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, tobe
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders interirod
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. •
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lod.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
“ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post directjfrom the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and. New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than X2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of Gbd in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subje • treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
-A- Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, O.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S.,Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits tlie
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isliam, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.j; Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin
Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr. Sty George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Hen- Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.O. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C. Hall.P.S.A.: Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Marthexe; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont,
Secretary.—"hlT. 3. Priest.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslatn, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of itg members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
TJ10R the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
JD DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
fPHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
J. FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologique&,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
] franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevemdoe & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
