[Resisteses as a Nkwspaeer.3
W^i Jlilti• rmuuthi) lu tlIj 3ptuluaUsm xn #.uai 'Juiiaiit.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Room's, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite, the Villa’Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gas§e. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : ” Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 211.—(VOL. IX.—No. 6.) LONDON; FNIDAYj SEPTEMBER’ 8j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Bearings of Spiritualism. By St. George Stock,
M.A.:—The Logical Importance of the Facts of Spirit¬
ualism—The Metaphysical Importance of the Facts of
Spiritualism—The Psychological Importance of the
Facts of Spiritualism—The Importance of the Facts of
Spiritualism in the Science of Religion—The Histori¬
cal Importance of the Facts of Spiritualism 81
Experiences of a Seer       63
Poetry :—TbrummyOap: A Ghost Story...  64
The Spirits and the Bravo Case:—Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke ... .1    ■ .; .-. ... ... 65
Spirit Materialisation in Portland, U.S. ... ... ... • 65
The Petitions on behalf of the Persechted M. Leymarie ... 66
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis   ... 66
A Remarkable Test Seance with Mr. E. Bullock  66
Remarkable Seances with Dr. Slade  ... ... 67
Correspondence:—Speculations about the Pre-Existence of
the Soul—The Education of Children—Spirit Identity—
Spiritualism without Spirituality—Regeneration versus
Reincarnation-Spiritualism and Conjurors—Monsieur
Fabre, the Drawing Medium—Speculations about Re¬
incarnation—Spiritualism and the Press 68
Remarkable Seance with W. Eglinton and Arthur Colman... 71
At the Cave of Mystery  ...    ... ... 72
Paragraphs:—The Property of Married Women, 65; Curious
Psychological Experiences, 65; Erratum, 67; The Re¬
vival of Spirituality, 67; Spirit Messages, 67; Library
of the National Association of Spiritualists, 67; Mr.
Spurgeon on' Spiritual Control of the Body, 67; The
National Association of Spiritualists  ... ... 67
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,’ Oh. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
Ip AST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogmain’ii
Lecture Rooms, 16, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free.. Supported by voluntary contributions.
J>IRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
^ 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniag.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John ROUSH, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
kJ CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
■ Harrison, 38, .Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Ti;ectswer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary stance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on thej&’st Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society m reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: ,to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 6s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of JB2 2s.
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Oalder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Oollen, Esq.
Andrew Glendinnlng, Esq.
‘William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq.; M.RJ.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary :
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List of Contributors.
£ s. d.
J. N. T. Martheze   25 0 0
Charles Blackburn       20 0 0
“ Nicodemus     10 10 0
William Tebb, Esq   ;  10 10 0
P. R. Harrison, Esq   .‘.  3 3 0
Mrs. Catherine Berry   2 2 0
Miss Ponder  110
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    110
H. Collen, Esq.    10 0
R. Glendinning, Esq    10 0
T. S   0 10 0
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can he forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton,
hon. sec.
/CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
VV and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 167, Bute-road, Cardiff.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1876.
Friday, lit.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.80
p.m.
Tuesday, 5th.—Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 8<A—Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.80
• p.m.
Tuesday, IWi.—Finance Committee, at 5:30 p.m.
„ ' ■ Correspondence Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ - Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m.
Friday, \5th.—House and Offices Committee, at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Wednesday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 22«rf.—Correspondence Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 20th.—Soiree Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 20th.—Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Members of Council and Committees are requested to attend
the meetings mentioned in the above list without further notice.
They will be further advised of any special meetings which it
may be necessary to convene during the month.
Committees of the B.N.A.S.
Experimental Research Committee—Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. (Chairman), Mr. C. F. Varley. F.R.S., Mr. W. H.
Coffin, Dr. C. Carter Blake, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. C. 0/Massey, Rev. W. Newbould, Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers, Mr. R. Hannah, P.S.A,, Mr. George King, Mr. H.
Withal! Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., Mr.Edmands,
Mr. Ivimey.
Finance Committee—Mr. Morell Theobald (Chairman), Mr.
Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder.
House and Offices Committee—Mr. Algernon Joy (Chairman),
Mr.Everitt, Mrs. Msltby, Mr. A. Calder, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers.
Soiree Committee—Mrs. D. Fitzgerald, Mrs. Maltby, Miss H.
Withal], Mr. Edmands, Mrs. Edmauds, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers.
Library Committee—Mr. E. Dawson Rogers (Chairman), Rev.
W. Newbould Dr, Carter Blake, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald.
Seance Committee—Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Dr.
K. Cook, Mr. H. Withail, Mr. Edmands.
Correspondence Committee—Mr. A. Calder (Chairman), Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A. Joy.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. IJd., post free.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Stance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 8, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, “West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liiian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W. „
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-sti-eet, Isllngton-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D . Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
tVason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield.W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-aquare. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle V ue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K,, Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, .1. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.,7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liiian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T,, Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, AY.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.AY.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F.'W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place,W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AYarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Row, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. w. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent- r"
road, S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Kedcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescfent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AY.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wlthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, Rt. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H, Andre. Mr. H. Cook.1 Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Koi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Leipsic, Germany.’
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S A.
n. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W- L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terfasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels. ■ •
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, H, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi-
dent-^Ll Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.1
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
N0TICR.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.C.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL. D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, .lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Maeshai.d & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND. ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLAGE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Bue St Honors,
Paris.
Mediumship : its nature and
VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CUBE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street Upper-street
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A
LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NUBSE, where no menial work is required. Beference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Bussell-street, W.O.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, Magnetic Healers, and
Mediums.-iTo Let, FUBNISHED APABTMENTS.
Also for evening seances. 26, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O.
Good chambers or furnished
APAETMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6J
guineas a week for four months. Beferences given and re¬
quired. A, B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wi/jht.
(r
Tf
(r?
iSiiaitt
% tl % of % anit nf ^pajitaaliam.
VOLUJVIE KlJ^E. KuMBER SlX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8th, 1876.
eJAs
THE BEARINGS OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY ST. GEORGE STOCK, M.A. ! (
Some time ago a remark was made by The Spectator as to j (
the philosophical importance of the phenomena of Spirit- j|
ualism, whether the practice of necromancy were to be j
approved of or not. Let it serve as a text for the following j
discourse. Upon a subject so vast I must be brief even to I j
boldness. It will be enough to indicate a few lines of ||
thought. “ Phenomena ” means in plain English C( facts; ” H
for facts we have to deal with, whatever theory we may ||
choose to account for them. And what are the facts of I)
Spiritualism ? There is no room here to answer this question j j
in detail. But let the reader recall some of the stories of the j j i
supernatural that have sounded to his ears most grotesquely j I j
incredible, fit only to raise a passing smile, or tickle the
fancy by the quaintness of their conception—these are the j j
kind of facts that have to be admitted. This may sound un- j j
compromising, a pill without gilding; but plain dealing |
prospers best in the long run. Spiritualists, as a rule, ||
believe overmuch ; they multiply the real marvels ; but they j
cannot out-miracle them. The facts of Spiritualism are j|
obstinately objective ; they refuse to be quenched either by 11
laughter or scorn; they force themselves with increasing I
persistency upon the attention of thoughtful minds. Yiew !
them historically, scientifically, metaphysically, theologically, j (
it is impossible in any aspect to overrate or overstate their |
importance. To make good this assertion, I shall set down |
a few bare heads of thought, dry bones which I look to see ! j
vivified by some prophet’s touch. And first— 11
THE LOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF THE FACTS OF SPIRITUALISM. I ) j
By this I mean their effect upon the theory of belief, i |
They give a final triumph to the philosophy of experience, | ]
so loudly professed in theory, so deeply disdained in practice, j j
Persons who have encountered the facts of Spiritualism have j i
had a dose likely to purge them for ever of prejudice. They j j
will never again reject assertions that admit of verification j j j
on the mere ground of intrinsic incredibility. Incredibility i j I
is a totally different thing from impossibility. Incredibility i j j
has relation only to the mind, impossibility to the course of j j I
nature. To deny what violates, or seems to violate, analogy, I j |
where investigation is impracticable, is wise; where prac- | j j
ticable, silly. We must remember that probability is a fit j j
guide only in the enforced absence of experience. Our j j |
minds have no power to impose laws upon nature; there | j j
is no archetype within to which the universe without must I j I
conform. It is true order reigns everywhere, but not of our j j j
making. Nature pays no heed to our notions of precision j |
and consistency. She will not make the earth the centre of | j
things, nor cause the planets to move in perfect circles; I j j
neither will she limit their number to seven, nor make the j I
course of the Nile exactly correspond to that of the Danube. I |
Men have foregone their pet fancies in the past, and been j j j
rewarded with glimpses of a grander harmony. Are there j j I
no pet fancies to be renounced now ? no limits which nature | j j
is forbidden to transgress ? We are children sitting at the I j j
great mother’s knees, painfully spelling out the lessons j j j
of life; and when we are advanced into words of two syllables, ; | j
we array our tiny experience to prove that no word had ever j \ |
more than one. Our minds are a fair index of what nature j 5 j
has done within the compass of our observation, but no mea- j 11
sure at all of what she can do. We depend on her teaching j 11
for all our knowledge, deriving our mental nourishment from j j!
the sights and sounds about us, and from experience of the j j
feelings that pass within. Shall we then put out the eye of j j
our soul, and, having reached a certain point of enlighten- I j I
ment, refuse further credit to the experience of ourselves or 11
our neighbours ? Such is the course that we actually do j I
pursue; such is the attitude of mind which is belauded and 1 [ j
called scientific. Rest content within an allotted compass of
inquiry, and suppress everything beyond it with the potent
logic of a sneer, that is what constitutes you a scientific man,
that is scientific method. The lesson which the facts of
Spiritualism convey to us in this direction is an old one, but
one which, unfortunately, still needs enforcement. It was
well put long ago by Dr. Chalmers, when he said, ((It is a
very obvious principle, although often forgotten in the pride
of prejudice and controversy, that what has been seen by one
pair of human eyes is of force to countervail all that has
been reasoned or guessed at by a thousand human under¬
standings.”
But if the Philosophy of Experience condemns incredulity,
it condones it too, as the unavoidable result of the weakness
of the human intellect, a weakness which it mistakes for
strength. It is not that the world will not believe what runs
counter to its experience, though vouched for by men of un¬
impeachable veracity and intelligence, but that it cannot
believe it. Belief is a feeling generated in the mind by
association; and it is not possible to divest ourselves of it
by a mere act of the will without the aid of fresh experience
of an opposite kind. It is the office of reason to teach us
that since even the limits of our conceptive faculties are no
measure of the possibilities of nature, much less should our
beliefs be accepted as such. But it is rare indeed to find a
mind that has learnt this lesson in its full application, and
to which a secondary evidence” is more than a grain of dust
in the balance when weighed against a prior belief. Students
of physical science exhibit in an eminent degree this in¬
capacity of escaping from a groove of thought. They have
grown so accustomed to one uniform flow of natural
phenomena that they cannot comprehend any perturbation
by unusual causes, and avenge the mental disquietude that
testimony causes them by angry denunciations of the witness.
It is a curious and instructive sight to watch the sanguine
condescension with which each new observer extends his
patronage to the facts of Spiritualism—he knows that he is
unprejudiced, and thinks he surely will be believed—only to
find himself consigned by the world at large, and scientific
men in particular, to the same limbo of folly as his prede¬
cessors. From the logical importance of the facts under
consideration we must pass on next to
THE METAPHYSICAL IMPORTANCE OF THE FACTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
It were idle to point out how deeply they must affect all
subsequent speculations on the nature of matter and mind,
and other fundamental problems of being. The doctrine
current among Spiritualists as to the nature of man is pre¬
cisely that of St. Paul—“ There is a soul-body (i.e., the body
proper) and a spirit-body (i.e., the soul).” As the outer is
to the inner in this present life, so is the inner to a yet more
interior principle in the life beyond. Clairvoyants and
mediums, as with one mouth, declare that, permeating
every fibre of our physical body there is a spiritual sub¬
stance, incognisable to sense, which at death issues from
its corporeal integument, and re-forms in precisely similar
shape, constituting the resurrection-body. Numberless dis¬
quisitions on this topic may be found by those who have a
desire to pursue it. The language may be metaphorical,
and express only superficial appearances. It is not plain
whether we are born naked into the next world as into this,
or where the spirit gets its clothes from. Neither has it, to
my knowledge, been determined whether this spiritual body
is matter, however refined or subtilised, or, if not, what
else it can be. But, leaving the beaten track, let us glance
at the correlation of Berkeleyism, and the phenomena of
the supernatural. Common sense says there is an external
reality which is the cause of our sensations. “ Yes,” says
Bishop Berkeley, “and this external reality is God.” So,
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 8, 1876.
in the view of this philosopher, what we call the universe, j V
with its ever-changing phenomena, is but a series of |j
parables—the wisdom of the Omniscient’s mouth. Ac- j
cording to the measure of knowledge already gained by the j j
soul do these parables speak much or little, reveal deep j
truths or sound as cold platitudes. The peculiarity of j
Berkeley’s theory is that he allows nothing intermediate j
between the soul and its Maker. There is nothing any- |
where but the voice of God speaking to the spirit of man. j
Our minds are mere instruments touched by the fingers of |
the Almighty:— j
A spirit came out from the Lord, 11
To play on the spirit of man, ])
That thrilled like a wind-shaken chord j j
When the hymn of the ages began. j j
According to Bishop Berkeley we are in a spirit-world already, j
Death cannot make us more so. We may indeed lose the j
series of impressions which indicate to us the existence of !
others. But why- suppose that because we have lost one set i
of impressions, they have lost all ? Or why assume our loss j
to be irrevocable ? For Berkeley does not deny the existence j
of a plurality of individual spirits besides the Infinite Spirit, j
though it is difficult on his principles to arrive at it. Now, j
suppose these finite spirits endowed to some extent with the j
divine attribute of impressing ideas by a mere act of the will j
upon others (which the facts of mesmerism strongly point jj
to), and many things connected with the supernatural, that j
have hitherto proved great stumbling blocks, at once become j
plain. What, for instance, can be more natural on this j
supposition than the ghost of a cocked hat on a pair of j
breeches? A spirit wishing to impress the thought of him- j)
self upon a mortal raises in the latter the ideas which were j
wont to be associated with the thought of his identity in the jj
mind of that mortal himself or others. The wonder would i
be if the cocked hat and breeches were not there, and if the jv
spirit presented himself under the unusual condition of j
nudity. From the metaphysical aspect of the facts of j
Spiritualism we pass naturally to j
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OP THE FACTS OP SPIRITUALISM. jj
We have had the Columbus of the world of mind in j
Swedenborg. It remains to explore and subdue the country, j
The facts of Mesmerism, Clairvoyance, Spiritualism reveal a j
universe of unsuspected laws regulating the interaction of j
mind on mind. They reveal the indelibility and recover- j
ability of impressions on the memory. Every thought, word, j
and deed of our lives is there; the Books of Judgment are jj
there. They show that there is a self within, latent to con- j
sciousness, of an apt apprehension, that needs no repetition |
to fortify its remembrance. There is a vast mass of evidence j
tending to show that what are mistaken for the utterances j
of spirits, because no author is forthcoming to claim them, j
are but the hidden contents of our own minds ; but there is j
another mass, equally vast, equally irrefragable, which seems j
to force us to the inference of external intelligence, of what j
kind soever, but acting through the human mind, and modi- j
fied by the nature of its medium. Hence we are presented j
by Spiritualism with the only consistent theory of revelation j
—that which gives its authority and withholds infallibility, j
which accounts for its progressive character without denying j
its external origin ; which recognises its services in the past j
and its promises for the future, but will not ascribe to the j
Fount of Holiness sentiments unworthy of civilised man. |
But we are already trenching upon the next point that has to j
be considered. I mean j
THE IMPORTANCE OP THE FACTS OP SPIRITUALISM IN THE SCIENCE OP RELIGION, j J
It is by their aid alone that such a science becomes possible, j
Thinkers on this subject who fail to recognise them are hope- j
lessly groping in the dark. They choose to dissect the dry jj
bones of dead religions, while a living one is growing up j
under their eyes and courting their observation. Every j
religion is founded upon spirit-manifestations ; and without j
such displays of a power to command matter, none would j
ever take root among the vulgar. The long mooted question ;
of miracles is at length decisively settled by Spiritualism, j
Miracles do actually occur. Of that keen and sceptical ij
minds have been amply satisfied by observation; and any j>
reader of this paper may satisfy himself too if he take the !(
proper pains. It is not true that scepticism interferes with !|
spiritual manifestations, though, as they depend upon psy¬
chical conditions, it is quite feasible for a strong antagonistic
will to hinder them, just as a mesmerist on the platform
may find himself defeated by a person in the crowd resolutely
setting his will in opposition. And since it is certain that
miracles occur in the present, what more reasonable than to
believe well-authenticated accounts of them in the past?
If Professor Lightfoot would only invite the author of
Supernatural Religion in a friendly way to a few sdatices in
his own house with Mr. Williams, what a deal of paper
might be spared! The controversy on miracles is now
obsolete ; and for this boon we are indebted to the facts of
Spiritualism. But mark the consequence. Miracles are the
monopoly of no religion; neither do they invariably accom¬
pany moral superiority. If St. Paul cured diseases by hand¬
kerchiefs taken from his body, so does Mr. Ashman—a
worthy man, but no saint; if Philip was levitated, so was
Mrs. Guppy; if Christ healed the blind by the touch of his
spittle, so did Yespasian. No claim to authority can be
grounded on miracles. If we were to pin our faith to the
greatest miracle-monger, we would have some queer prophets.
There is, however, a natural connection between miracles and
religion. Religions are the products of spiritual forces';
their origin is behind the veil of our world; and these
spiritual forces at the outset of every new religion override
and master the laws of matter. There is no interruption in
this of the course of nature ; only we must learn to extend
that term.
The facts of Spiritualism, again, throw light on the
question of prayer, and offer the only rational explana¬
tion of what are called Special Providences, many instances
of which rest on too solid a basis of evidence for a blunt
denial. It is not uncommon at a seance to have an internal
request complied with. Extend this conception, no matter
what theory you adopt to account for the fact, and you have
physical answers to prayer, which it is absurd and blas¬
phemous in the highest degree to ascribe to Him “ in whom
is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.” Mr. W. R.
Greg, in an admirable passage on prayer, argues that for
((prayer to be a bond fide effective agent in obtaining any
boon (he is not here talking of spiritual blessings), it must
operate on an impressible and mutable will; therefore, if
there be superior intermediate beings, showing human
sympathies and imperfections, but possessing more than
human powers and knowledge^ prayer may secure their aid,
but not that of a supreme God.” And Mr. Alfred Russel
Wallace, in his striking papers in the Fortnightly^ has come
forward to assure us that such is precisely the theory of
prayer which his own mind, long trained in scientific habits
of thought, finds itself forced by experience to accept.
The different heads under which I am endeavouring to
exhibit the philosophical bearings of the facts of Spirit¬
ualism unavoidably run into one another, and we have
already touched on
THE HISTORICAL IMPORTANCE OP THE PACTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Still the subject is wider than the field of religious
history, and will bear a few words of further comment.
Nature, it has been said, was discovered yesterday: but
history is certainly the invention of to-day. It is only
quite recently we have gained that infallible criterion of
truth, which enables the historian to accept one set of state¬
ments from a valued author, while others, on the same page,
it may be, and resting on equally valid evidence, are to be
set aside as on the bare face of them incredible. The facts of
Spiritualism are of overwhelming importance to the histori¬
cal student. Page after page of history, which modern
criticism has mythicised, are by them restored to the
simplicity of a genuine record. Can it, for instance, for one
moment be believed that the Delphic oracle, which exerted
so important an influence on the fortunes of the Greek race,
which Plato recognised, and to which Socrates appealed as
the standing proof of the existence of the Gods, and their
care for men, was nothing but a gigantic swindle, imposed
for ages on the most sharp-witted of nations by Pagan priests,
a tribe ignorant and corrupt beyond the ordinary measure of
popular priestcraft. No; it was a genuine source of in¬
spiration and clairvoyance, whence men could* obtain real in¬
formation as to distant and future events ; it was tested in
do now. The same remarks hold true, more or less, of oracles
of minor note. Volumes might be written displaying thehomo- 1]
geneity of spiritual phenomena in all ages and all countries, jj
To take but a single example. Any one who has witnessed an | (
i( inspirational speaker,” of a certain type, passing under j]
a influence,” has had a vivid realisation of Virgil’s power- j[
ful picture of the Camcean Sibyl succumbing to the mastery I j
of Phoebus. That picture is true to nature, and could have |! j
been penned by none but an eye-witness of the kind of scene j ] |
portrayed:— jij
Nor yet subdued the Sibyl, phrensy-struck, \
Ranges her cavern’s length in awful strife i I
To drive the deity from out her breast: j [
So much the more her frantic mouth'he tires, j j
Tames the wild heart and moulds her to his will. j j
The connection of Spiritualism with ancient oracles is but j
one of numerous historical applications. Our fathers were j i
not absolute fools, though we are apt to flatter ourselves j J
that “ we are the men,” and that if wisdom will not die with j I
us, it was at all events born when we saw the light. The j j
lamentable history of witchcraft presents itself in a new and j j
startling aspect to the inquirer into Spiritualism. The same j j
may be said of the art of magic. It is incredible that men j j
should have spent laborious days and nights in the study of j j
—nothing. Tricks of legerdemain might have imposed j j
upon outsiders, but could hardly have bamboozled the per- j j
formers themselves; yet we have only to dip into the treatises j[|
of writers on magic to see that they were thoroughly in j I
earnest. Surely anything which throws even the gleam of j|;|
a farthing rushlight into so obscure a corner of the mental j j
history of man must be worth our most curious study! j j
But enough, I hope, has been said to show the deep-lying, j||
wide-reaching importance of facts, to which we must either • j 1
give credence, or reject all testimony, and reduce the in- ! j
dividual within the narrow sphere of his own observation. j|j
It will doubtless be observed that though their value in the j
comparative study of religion has been insisted on, no word j
has been said with regard to their moral and religious sig- I
nificance. That does not flow from the mere existence of j
the facts, but from the acceptance of the only theory by j
which some at least of them seem capable of explanation, j
If we ascribe the phenomena with Dr. Carpenter wholly to j
unconscious cerebration, or with Serjeant Cox to psychic j
force, or with Mr. Charles Bray to an omnipresent thought-
atmosphere, we deprive.them of all moral value. One point, j
however, we may dwell upon without begging the question j
in favour of any theory. Whatever view we may adopt of
inspiration, and with it of revelation; whether we ascribe its j
source to superhuman intelligence, or only to the working of j
the mind of the age; whether the fire be kindled in heaven
or on earth, it is certain that it has been a most important j
instrument in the education of the human race. The utter- j
ances of Hebrew seers, the professed spirit-teachings of St. j
Paul, the pages of the Koran, how they have moulded the j
thoughts of millions ! And to each age has been given j
according to its capacity; on each such motives have been j
brought to bear as were most appropriate to enforce obedience, j
We have now reached that point in the education of humanity j
when the fear of the rod may be finally dispensed with, j
Accordingly, we hear nothing in modern revelations about j
judgment, nothing about damnation, no word of a hell save j
such as the sinner may make for himself in this world as in j
the next. We have grown up to mature rationality, and our j
reason is appealed to. Threats which were salutary in the j
past would now create contumacy and not compliance, or jj
produce servility in the man, though the simpler nature of [j
childhood might escape the taint. j!
But it is time that this paper should draw to a close. If j j
it has awaked attention, it has not failed of its object. We ji
have seen how the facts of Spiritualism intertwine them- jj
selves with almost every branch of human inquiry. They j j
strikingly illustrate the difficulties of truth in winning its jj
way to acceptance; suggest a reconsideration of the most jl
fundamental problems of being; reveal innumerable hidden |
laws of mind ; throw light on the deep mystery of the j
rise of religions; and connect themselves with the history I
of every age. Fresh from their study, we feel inclined to
exclaim, with Seneca—“Nullo nobis seculo interdictum est:
in omnia admittimur.” They are fraught with significance
to all who care to speculate on their present condition, their
possible future, or the past history of their race. But,
further, they are silently and steadily taking hold of the
popular mind, not as facts to be reasoned on, but as a religion
to be lived. And here I would recall one striking observa¬
tion of Hume’s. u In the infancy of new religions, the wise
and learned commonly esteem the matter too inconsiderable
to deserve their attention or regard. And when afterwards
they would willingly detect the cheat, in order to undeceive
the deluded multitude, the season is now past, and the
records and witnesses which might clear up the matter have
perished beyond recovery.” Let us not in our wisdom and
learning repeat this error of the past, nor in allowing another
“cheat” to grow to the full dimensions of a scheme of
faith, bequeath a legacy of endless controversy to a new
age of criticism. By following, consciously or unconsciously,
the rules of inductive logic, we have rid ourselves already
of many groundless prejudices. But is the sun of truth
yet at meridian-height ? or more than peering above the
morning clouds? The day may come when the facts of
Spiritualism shall be clearly understood, and the shadow
distinguished from the substance: but never so long as we
refuse to apply to these facts the established principles of
induction. Let us, as the Daily Telegraph once put it,
“be Baconian, even to our ghosts.” Of course, it is very
disagreeable to be brought face to face with a number of
facts one cannot account for; it is too provoking to have
chairs and tables taking it into their legs to set up life on
their own account; to have miracles and omens and visions
and inspirations going on under the nose of the British
Association, and just, too, as science was reaching the end of
her synthesis, and discussing the condensation of the primal
nebula! It is very disagreeable: but then how is it to be
avoided ? Hiding our heads is but a sorry expedient. Let
us prefer to face the facts undismayed by the anathemas of
those who have not looked into them. That is not true
science which pronounces before examining ; which, so far
from venturing out into strange waters, is determined to
keep well within the shelter of a bold, solid bluff of popular
prejudice. The science which would investigate the deeper
mysteries of nature must be a science which will investigate
instead of denying; a science which is ready to learn as well
as eager to teach—a science which will shirk no facts, be¬
cause the conclusions they point to are distasteful.
EXPERIENCES OF A SEER.
A clairvoyant, Mr. Skipsey, of Ashington Colliery, near Morpeth,
Northumberland, sends us a private letter he has received, from which
the following is an extract
I have no doubt myself, but that the history of man, or mind, will
be read from the earth’s crust, as the actions of man will be read from
his body, or from his life. I should very much like to go with you to
some of the old ruins and the old battle-fields. Every word I have
said above would be verified. The very rocks and earth would throw
off an atmosphere which would mirror the past, and you would read it
as plainly as you would read a book. If mind be master of matter,
why should there be any doubt of the geology of mind ? I well
remember the time when the geology of the earth was considered a
Utopian idea, and the thought of it from the devil; and the geology of
mind cannot expect to share a better fate.
In the course of his reply Mr. Skipsey said
One day, while looking at a newly-limed blank house wall, a blue
mist came over my sight; the wall disappeared, and in its stead there
arose before me a large cliff, or steep mountain, that appeared to be
pregnant with all kinds of fossil remains. At some distance from
this rolled the sea, on the beach of which, and along by the foot
of the mountain, passed to and fro a number of copper-coloured people,
in what appeared to me the most uncouth garb. I was watching their
proceedings, when a heavy wind arose, laden with sleet and snow, that
darkened their faces, and continued to rage for a few moments, when
a “ change came o’er the spirit of the scene,” and my attention
became riveted in the contemplation of a summer-clad landscape near
the same part of the globe, but in a less remote age. The weather
was fine, and by the side of a river was a grotesque temple, into
which were gathered, or were gathering, a multitude of similar hued
people to those already described, and in which they appeared to hold
a solemn council. I was just on the point of giving way to some
excellent reflections on the calm and peaceful spirit that therein pre¬
vailed, when the council broke up, and the next thing I saw was, as
the people left the temple, that they, men and women, and as naked
Sept. 8, ml THE SPlHlTtlALIST: #
a thousand ingenious ways and passed unscathed through the
ordeal; though, when power was deficient, it eked out its
resources by vagueness and ambiguity, as medial utterances
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 8, 18?&
as they were when they were brought into the world, had plunged into |
the river, in which they swam about like ducks, and they were so
engaged when I was called to attend to other business.
My next experience is, perhaps, a harder nut still for the psycholog- j
ical student to crack. In this I beheld a fossil youth, or what to the
clairvoyant ken appeared as such—gradually revivify, as it were, I
beneath the touch of my own glance. The first indication of animation
was shown in the scum or thick skin in which he was enveloped j
beginning to fly off. The whole of that which covered the face came j
off in its entirety—hung a moment in the air, a perfect mask—and then
dissolved and disappeared. The parts thus unshelled had the identical j
appearance of newly-skinned live flesh, but this soon changed, and, j
ere the elapse of two minutes, the whole body had regained its native j
and pristine hues, nay, had become a body of light. In the meantime
the lips and the eye-lids, that had been glued together, had opened, and j
the eyes and the mouth had begun to glow with intelligence, and the
figure itself to move and to recede to some distance from its original I
position, where for a time, with outstretched arms, it stood before my j
gaze—“a thing of beauty and a joy for ever.” I have had a number i
of such visions as these, all tending to show that, as you say, *f there is !
a geology of the deeds and actions of men,” as well as a geology of the
earth; but, let me tell you that, in general, for such visions I have
little liking, and I would rather at any time that you would set before ■'
me the task of tracing the earth career of some unhappy soul, the truth
of my statements in relation to whom might be criticised.
    I
Poeirj). |:
THRUMMY GAP: A GHOST STORY.
Nearly, if not quite twelve months ago, one of your correspondents ex- j
pressed a desire to obtain some information as to the ancient ballad of !
“ Thrummy Cap.’* Like the writer, I had long been desirous of becoming i
possessed of a copy of the humorous story. In this, by the good offices of a !
friend in the North of Scotland, I have at length succeeded. The poem is j
too long to be published in extenso, but an outline of its incidents, with a few j
extracts, may prove not unacceptable to your readers. The two leading per- j
eonages in the tale are thus introduced :—•
In ancient times, far i’ the north,
A hunder miles ayont the Forth,
Upon a stormy winter day,
Twa men forgathered o’ the way.
Ane was a sturdy bardoch chiel, |
An’ frae the weather happit weel,
Wi’ a mill’d plaiding jockey coat,
An’ eke on his head had got
A thrummy cap, baith large and stout, i
Wi’ flaps ahind, as weel’s a snout, j
Whilk buttoned close aneath his chin,
To, keep the cauld frae getting in. i,
Upon his legs he had gammashes, A|
Whilk sodgers term their spatterdashes; !1
An’ on his hands, instead o’ gloves,
Large doddy mittens, whilk he’d roose j |
For warmness, an’ an aiken Stick,
Nae verra lang, but unco thick, j j
Intil his neive. He drave awa’, ;
An’ cared for neither frost nor snaw. j
The ither was just the reverse— j
His fears he hardly could disperse. i j
Grew verra thick upon the wind, j j
Whilk, to their w;ae, they soon did find, i j
A mighty shower of snaw and drift, I j
As ever dang doon frae the lift. IJ
Right wild and boist’rous Boreas roar'd. ] j
® Preserve’s,” quoth John, “ we’ll baith be smor’d, i j
Our trystic end we’ll ne’er mak’ out.” | j
By persuasive words, Thrummy endea vours to cheer his disconsolate com- I j
panion, and the two walk on until, overtaken by darkness, they beg a night’s ! j
lodging at a mansion house by the way. They meet with anything but a j j
hospitable reception ; but at length, pleading the united power of purse and [)
stick, they force their way into the wayside dwelling. The landlord, philoso- | j
phically submitting to the inevitable, addresses his unwelcome visitors as : {
followsj {
. .. Ye’re raither rash; jl
To turn you out I canna fash, j)
Since ye’re sae positive to bide, i)
But troth yese sit by the fireside. | (
I tauld ye else o’ beds I’ve nane j}
Unoccupied, except bare ane. j
In it, I fear, ye winna lie, j j
For stoutest heart has aft been shy j |
To venture in within the room, ;
After the night begins to gloom; j
For in it they can ne’er get rest, !
’Tis haunted by a frightfu’ ghaist. I
John shudders at the terrible prospect, but again he is fortified by his more i
courageous associate, and in due course the strangers repair to the “ spare I ■
bed ” upstairs. Towards midnight Thrummy is seized by the pangs of thirst, i
and this is his apology for rising and leaving his bed-fellow behind:— j
Sae doon he gaes to seek a drink, j
An’ then, behold, he sees a blink j
O’ licht, that shone upo’ the floor, i <
Out through the lock-hole of the door, j
Which was na fast, but stood a-jee. I
Whatever’s there he thinks he’ll see; I
Sae bauldly o’er the threshold ventures, j
An’ in within the door he enters. I
But, reader, judge of the surprise, j
When there he saw with wond’ring eyes i ;
A spacious vault well stor’d wi’ casks
O’ reaming ale, and some big flasks,
An’ stride -legs o’er a cask o’ ale,
He saw the likeness o’ himsel’.
*#***#
Our hero at the spectre star’d,
But neither daunted was nor car’d;
But to the Ghaist stright up did stap,
An’ says, “ Dear brither Thrummy Cap,
The warst ye surely dinna drink,
Sae I wi’ you will taste, I think.”
Syne took a jug, pou’d out the pail, ’
An’ filled it up wi’ the same ale,
Frae under where the spectre sat,
An’ up the stair wi’ it he gat;
Took ae’ gude drink, gae John anither,
But never tauld him o’ his brither,
’ That he within the cellar saw,
Mair than he’d naething seen ava.
The experiment is repeated with a like result, and at last the travellers settle
down to sleep. Their slumbers, however, are soon disturbed by a “dreadfu’
din and clamour ” in an adjoining apartment. Once more, the stout heart of
Thrummy Cap stands him in good stead, and—
.... Fast as he could rin,
Set aff to see what made the din.
The cham’er seemed to him as licht
As if the sun were shinin’ bricht.
The Ghaist was stanen at the door
In the same dress he had afore;
An’ o’er anent it at the wa’
Were ither apparitions twa.
Thrummy beheld them for a-wee,
But feint a word as yet spak he.
The spirits seemed to kick a ba’—
The Ghaist aginst the ither twa;
Whilk close they drave baith back and fore,
Atween the chimney an’ the door.
He stops a-while and sees the play,
Syne, rihnin’ up, he thus did say,
“ Ane for ane may weel compare,
But twa for one is raither sair;
The play’s nae equal, sae I vow,
Dear brither Thrummy, I’ll help you.”
The proffered help is accepted, and the two minor spirits having eventually
vanished from the scene, the Ghost thus reveals the secret of his wanderings
to his alter ego, Thrummy:—
Frae this aback near forty year,
I of this place was overseer;
When this laird’s father had the land,
A’thing was then at my command,
Wi’ power to do as I thocht fit,
In ilka cause I chief did sit.
The laird paid great respect to me,
But I an ill return did gie.
The title deeds of his estate,
Out of the same I him did cheat,
An’ stole them frae where they did lie,
Some days afore the laird did die,
His son at that time was in France,
An’ sae I thocht I’d hae a chance,
Gin he sud never come again,
That the estate would be my ain.
But scarcely three bare weeks were past,
When death did come and grip me fast,
Sae sudden that I had nae pow’r
The charter back for to restore.
Soon after that cam’ ham the heir,
An’ syne gat up the reefu’ rair,
“ Fat sorrow was come o’er the Richts ?”
They socht them several days and nichts.
But never yet hae they been seen,
As I aneath a muckle stane
Did hide them i’ this cham’er wa’,
Weel sew’d up in a leather ba’.
But I was ne’er allowed to rest
Until that I the same confest,
But this to do I hadna power,
From that time to this verra hour,
That I’ve reveal’d it a’ to you,
An’ noo’ I’ll tell you what to do. t
Till nae lang syne noe mony kent
That this same laird the Richts did want;
But noo they hae him at the law,
An’ the neist ook the laird maun shaw
Afore the coort the Richts o’s land
This puts him to an unco stand ;
For if he didna shaw them there,
O’ a’ his lands he’ll be stripp’d bare ;
Nae hopes has he to save his state,
This mak’s him sour and unco blate.
He canna think whaur’s Richts can be,
And ne’er expects them mair to see.
But noo, my frien’, mark what I tell,
An’ ye’ll get something to yoursel’—
Tak’ out the stane there in the wa’,
And there ye’ll get the leather ba’.
’Tis jist the same that you did see,
When you said that you would help me.
The Richts are sew’d up in its heart,
But see ye dinna wi’ them pairt,
Until the laird shall pay you doon
Jist fifty guineas and a croon,
Whilk at my death was due to me.
65
Sept. 8, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
This for thy trouble I’ll give thee ; .
An’ I’ll disturb this hoose nae mair,
’Cause I’ll be free frae a’ my care.
The behest of the Ghost was complied with by Thrummy to the very letter.
Before the inmates were astir, the deeds were removed from their hiding-
place, and on the host presenting himself in the morning, he again manifested
a strong desire to get rid of his guests. He little dreamt, however, of what
was in store for him :—
Quoth Thrummy, “ Sir, mind what I tell,
I’ve mair richt here than you yoursel’,
Sae till I like I here sail bide.”
The laird at this began to chide :
Says he, “My friend, you’re turning rude.”
Quoth Thrummy, “ I’ll my claim make good,
For here I jist before you a’
The Richts o’ this estate can shaw,
And that is mair than ye can do.”
“ What! ” quoth the laird, “ can that be true ? ”
“’Tis true,” quoth Thrummy, “look an’ see,
D’ye think that I wad tell a lee ? ”
The parchments frae his pouch then drew,
An’ doon upon the table threw.
The laird at this up to him ran,
An’ cried, “ Whar did ye get them, man ? ”
Syne Thrummy tauld him a’ the tale,
As I’ve tauld you baith clear an’ hale.
■ The laird at this was fidgin’ fain,
That he had got his Richts again ;
An’ fifty guineas doon did tell,
Besides a present frae himsel’.
Exeunt travellers, leaving the landlord in happy and unexpected possession
of his property and its title deeds, and so the amusing story ends. On the
authorship of this old ballad I can throw very little light. I believe, how¬
ever, it was the composition of a soldier in Aberdeenshire, and nearly a
hundred years must now have elapsed since it was written. With the rising
generation, especially in the North of Scotland, it was once very popular, but
it is now out of print, the copy forwarded by my friend having actually been
obtained from the private collection of an Aberdeen bookseller.—Newcastle
Paper.
THE SPIRITS AND THE BRAYO CASE.
The following letter appeared in last week’s Penny Illus¬
trated Paper:—
To the Editor of the “Penny Illustrated Paper P
Sir,—In your last number I observe that under the above heading
you say, “The letter which The Spiritualist had the effrontery to
publish as from the spirit hand of. Mr. Bravo . . . was ... as different
as it well could be from the epistolary style of the deceased gen¬
tleman.”
Now, I am sure that, whatever you may think of Spiritualism, or
The Spiritualist, you do not wish to do an injustice to the latter.
Allow me, then, to call your attention to the fact that in the article you
refer to, the editor guards himself most carefully throughout against
the possibility of its being imputed to him that he endorses the hypo¬
thesis of the letter in question having been really written by Mr.
Bravo. Moreover, that he calls attention to the difference in the style
from that of Mr. Bravo when on earth; and, though he suggests an
explanation, admits distinctly that the said difference throws a doubt on
the authenticity of the communication.
As to the “ sacrilegious declaration ” you speak of, I really cannot
make out what you refer to. I have not a dictionary at hand at the
moment, but I understand “ sacrilegious ” to mean that which is
insulting to religion.
“At the Egyptian Hall.” On page 134 you exalt Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke at the cost of Spiritualism. Perhaps you can explain to
your readers why neither Mr. Maskelyne nor any other conjuror ever
accepted my challenge to produce, for £1,000, any of their “ exposures”
of Spiritualism, under the same conditions as those under which my
medium should produce the very manifestations which they, the con¬
jurors, “ expose.” I send, by book post, a copy of my correspondence
with Mr. Maskelyne. The challenge is still open. Algernon Joy.
Junior United Service Olub, Aug. 27, 1876.
MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOKE.
The editor of the Illustrated Paper appended the follow¬
ing note to the foregoing letter :—
We are informed by Mr. William Morton, Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke’s manager, that Mr. Maskelyne did accept the challenge, but
that Mr. Joy then wished “ to impose such conditions that no man—
medium or otherwise—could adopt.” We have only to add that a
glance through Mr. Joy’s correspondence with Mr. Maskelyne makes it
clear that Mr. Joy wished the latter to agree to perform the Davenport
Brothers’ tricks under conditions far more rigorous than those the
Davenports were subjected to. We print an illustration of the Daven¬
ports’ cabinet stance, from a sketch taken when they made their first
appearance in London; and we are inclined to believe, with our
“ Playgoer,” that Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, performing under
virtually the same conditions as the Davenports did in public, fully
equal, if they do not surpass, the pseudo-mediums in manual dexterity
at the Egyptian Hall.
To this Mr. Joy has sent the following reply :—
To the Editor of the “ Penny Illustrated Paper.”
Sir,—My correspondence with Mr. Maskelyne dealt with two dis¬
tinctly separate challenges. The first, referring to the Davenports, fell
through, because Mr. Maskelyne claimed that the Davenports not being
|! available, he himself, and not the committee (in the appointment of which
si he and I were to have equal voices), should define what the Davenports
j| had done. (See his letter on page 5 of my pamphlet, “ £1,000
(| Reward.”) As this was contrary to the terms of my challenge No. 1,
si Mr. Morton cannot say that “Mr. Maskelyne did accept “ that one,
)j which runs thus : “If two out of three ” of the committee “ certify that
(| you have done what they have seen the Davenports do, . . . they shall
si hand you the £250 ” (see page 4 of my pamphlet).
I cannot understand where you find that I wish “ Mr. Maskelyne to
(j perform under conditions far more rigorous than the Davenports were
sj subjected to.” I expressly and invariably stipulate the contrary, viz.,
j that the conditions shall be “the same,” and I defy you to quote one
(! word in my correspondence to the opposite effect,
si As regards the second challenge, Mr. Morton begs the very point at
)i issue in saying that “no medium could adopt” such conditions as I
(I “wished to impose.” I offered to produce the medium who would accept
sj them. If Mr. Maskelyne could not, how can Mr, Morton say that he
) j did accept this challenge ?
It is still open! A. Joy.
| SPIRIT MATERIALISATION IN PORTLAND, U.S.
j A writer in the Boston Sunday Courier says ;—“ Having heard, not
j only in Boston, but elsewhere, of the existence of astounding phenomena
j in a private family of Portland, I sought admission (as a reporter) into
j the family circle, in the belief that a faithful report of such proceedings
s j as might take place before my eyes would be acceptable. This method
) j of entrance was absolutely necessary, as only intimate friends of the
■ j family, or those who are invited by intimate friends, can ever gain
(j admission. At eight o’clock we were seated—twelve of us—in one of
);j the large parlours of the house. Across the corner of the room a black
(} gingham curtain, in two parts, was drawn. It enclosed only the two
vj walls of the room, making the corner—a common black walnut stand,
i j with books upon it, and a low stool. The gas was turned off, so that we
I could just distinguish each other’s faces and the pictures upon the walls.
(j After sitting in pleasant conversation for perhaps ten minutes, some one
>:! suggested that a song be sung. ‘Nearer, my God, to Thee!’ was
|| thereupon begun, and the first verse sung. As the second was started,
) j the figure of a woman, with outstretched hands and in long white
) j raiment, floated stationary over the curtain above our heads, and then
(I vanished. Immediately following this the figure of a young girl, of
( j twenty years (as we know ages here), stepped from behind the curtain,
) j through the opening, and stood in front of it, not six feet from us—the
(j medium, a lady of forty-five, being seated upon the low stool in the
j j enclosure. I desire to say here that we could see the dress of the
) j medium through the whole time of the sitting—an hour and a half—the
j j curtain not coming down to the floor. Neither tongue nor pen can
) I describe the utter radiance of the figure we all saw. The whole of its
) j garments were white and shining, giving out a sort of phosphoric light,
j j such as is seen upon the water on certain brilliant nights. Every
j j person present saw the whole form of this being as she stood—a crown
j of flowers upon her head, her arms bare to the shoulders, her feet
\ j firmly set upon the floor. We saw her lift the crown from her head;
) j we saw her place her hands under her long black curls, that came down
)j to her shoulders; we saw her lift the veil from her face, and drape
(j herself often in her snowy garments. Suddenly she beckoned for a
j j young man and a young lady in the party to come to her. Timidly
) j they did so, and immediately were enveloped in the folds of a fabric
\ j finer than gossamer. This presently was withdrawn, and they were
> I motioned back to their seats. All again seated, the veil was lifted clear
) from the face, and the face was recognised by several of those present
j as that of the departed sister of the young man who was called up from
) the circle. We next saw that the figure was becoming thoroughly
( defined, and then that it was slowly evaporating, or rather dematerial-
( ising away. In a few moments nothing was visible to us but a white
| mist in the place where it stood, and that shortly vanished. The figure
( of a full-grown man, of a woman clothed in Turkish robes, and of a
) little child also, appeared to us, but no person present recognised either.
) I make no comment upon all this, my readers, but simply offer it to you
( and to those that are investigating ‘ these things.’ ”
The Property of Married Women.—The seventh annual report of
the “ Executive Committee for Amending the Law with respect to the
Property of Married Women,” has been forwarded to us. All interested
in the good work of promoting honesty, by securing property to its
rightful owners, should obtain the report, which can be had, post free,
for three-halfpence from Messrs. A. Ireland and Co., Pall Mall, Man¬
chester.
Curious Psychological Experiences.—A friend writes to us from
the Continent:—“ There was a Mr.   here last winter, ordered
j here by John King for his health. He had much to do with spirit
photography. He took to curing hump-backed people, and photo-
j graphed the subjects, from time to time, to exhibit the changes; he
j thought he should do won.ders> and be another Jesus Christ. He was
j a lively, sensible man, aged sixty, and had much scientific and prac-
j tical knowledge. He believed that he had an attendant spirit, who
j spoke to him and prompted him in all this. For instance, he was told
! to live entirely on rice and water, though he would take a glass of wine
j some times when I offered it, but generally put it to his lips and set it
j down again. When I asked ‘ Why?’ he would say he was touched on
j the forehead not to take it. The last time I saw him he came dancing
j into my room full of glee, saying the spirit had told him that he would
i effect wonderful cures, and live more than twenty years. A week after
1 j this he was in his grave. I tell you this because you must care to
\ I know the practical working of Spiritualism in every way.
66
tills StlHITTJALXSt.
Sept. 8, 1876.
THE PETITIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PEKSECUTED
M. LEYMARIE.
The following is an extract from the French daily news¬
paper, Le Figaro, one of the most popular and widely-read
journals in France:—“ August 29th. They are having a
hearty laugh just now in the Chamber of Justice. Do you
remember the trial of the spirit-photographer, Buguet?
One of the victims of that affair, which had its amusing side,
is a certain Leymarie, editor of the Revue Spirite. All his
co-religionists in England and America—all, you under¬
stand—are now soliciting his pardon. You will not believe
us, but we solemnly swear that yesterday two petitions—
immense, impossible, unheard-off, unimaginable, insane—
were brought into M. Dufaure’s cabinet. One of them, that
which was sent from England, is ten yards long. The text
of the petition is printed, the remainder of the document
pasted upon linen and rolled up, bears the signatures of the
English followers of Allan Kardec. The demand that has
been sent from the United States is not less than sixty
yards long ! May we be hanged, high and tight, if we
exaggerate one single inch. As to the number of signatures
on this boundless roll, you can understand that we did not
even attempt to count them. Spiritualism is going ahead
in America ! ”
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
COMMITTEE.
Mr. Chas. Blackburn.
Mr. B. Coleman.
Dr. Geo. Sexton.
Mr. A. Calder.
Mr. W. Tebb.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze.
Mr. H. D. Jenoken.
Mr. H. Collen.
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. A, Glendinning.
In consequence of the efforts and advocacy of Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze, the above gentlemen have formed themselves into
a committee, to act in conjunction with that in America, for
the purpose of raising subscriptions towards the Testimonial
to Andrew Jackson Davis. In America, we learn by the last
mail, about three thousand two hundred dollars have been
collected. Those English friends who wish to subscribe—
and it is to be hoped there will be many—are' requested to
send their contributions to Mr. Martheze, 20, Palmeira-
square, Brighton, with as little delay as possible. The fol¬
lowing amounts have already been received :—Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze, £25 ; Mr. Chas. Blackburn, £20 ; Mr. P. R. Har¬
rison, £3 3s.: Mrs. Berry, £2 2s.; Sir Chas. Isham, £1 Is.;
Miss Ponder, £1 Is.; Mr. H. Collen, £1 Os.; Miss Kisling-
bury, 10s. 6d.
A REMARKABLE TEST SEANCE WITH MR. E. BULLOCK.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sm,—On the evening of the 21st instant, a party of ten
ladies and eight gentlemen, of Leeds, assembled to test the
mediumship of Mr. E. Bullock, of London, this being the
last of a series of three seances held on consecutive evenings.
In the first part, a dark seance, we had the following
phenomena: spirit lights; musical instruments and bells
floated and sounded vigorously over our heads ; many of the
circle were freely touched by hands ; the fire-irons were with
considerable clattering brought on to the table; and, as a
finale, the medium was floated on to the table in his chair,
while contact was sustained all round the circle by each
person holding his neighbours’ hands.
In the interval previous to the second part of the seance,
the eight gentlemen accompanied the medium to a bedroom,
where we entirely changed the whole of his apparel, and gave
him the following quite new outfit of clothing, specially
provided for the purpose: viz., a dark-blue shirt, black socks,
black coat and pants, and black kid gloves. On descending
into the drawing-room, a lady in the presence of the whole
circle stitched the coat sleeves to the gloves all round the
wrists; the coat was also stitched in front of the chest of the
medium; we then buckled a leather strap tightly round
each wrist, and, as an additional security, we, with a needle
and linen thread fastened each strap separately through
holes specially made in the slack of the strap that had
passed the buckle and that part next the wrist; we then
secured both hands at the back of the medium with a third
strap and buckle, this strap being slipped under those
already on his wrists, and buckled tightly; this third strap
we also secured with thread, as in the case of the wrists.
Having satisfied ourselves all round that the foregoing had
been very properly and carefully arranged, we put our
medium into a black bag, which had been thoroughly
scrutinized; we then drew the strings of the bag tight, and
fastened the same very securely, tying it over and over again
at the back of the medium’s neck. Then we placed him in
the ante-room leading into the conservatory, and secured all
doors and windows by locks, fasteners, and gummed slips of
paper; the keys of the doors were removed, and put into a
sceptic’s pocket. On the floor, near the medium, we placed
a guitar, bells, mouth harmonicon, and two birch curtain
rings; these rings had been purchased at a neighbouring
store by three of the gentlemen, immediately before we
assembled.
We then drew the curtains, the said curtains being the
permanent ornamental upholstery hangings between the
drawing-room where we sat, and the aforesaid small ante¬
room which formed the cabinet. Shortly we commenced to
smg, and, with the gas at full glare, we were, by raps, told
to reduce the light. This we did accordingly, but not to a
greater extent than enabled everyone in the circle to see dis¬
tinctly in any part of the room what time it was by his or
her watch; in fact, I have no hesitation in saying that I
should not have had any difficulty in reading the Times
newspaper sitting in any part of the room, and it was under
these conditions of light, without any alteration, that the
seance proceeded.
We were very quickly gratified and greatly interested by
the appearances of quite a variety of hands—a variety
both of size and colour—and all, more or less, evidencing
considerable power; for instance, pictures hanging near the
curtains were made to oscillate, and were visibly moved in
position; the walls outside the cabinet, in full view of every
one, were audibly slapped with flat hands ; ornaments were
brought from the ante-room mantelpiece and pushed under
the curtains, the hands always being visible ; the said orna¬
ments were all arranged in an orderly manner on the carpet
of our room fronting the curtains, and consisted of valuable
parian and glass lustres, and nick-nacks; then a pair of
hands appeared at the sides of the curtains, and also in
centre, holding the two curtain rings, which were quite gaily
knocked against the woodwork, as if in great glee at what
was to be done next. We were told by raps that the rings
were about to be put on the medium’s wrists, and some
minutes after we were assured that this was accomplished.
At this point one of our circle was compelled by a pro¬
fessional appointment to retire, which he did, after being
allowed to satisfy himself that the said rings were on the
medium’s wrist.
Shortly afterwards we drew aside the curtains, and found
the medium still entranced; and having brought him into
the centre of the company we began carefully to examine
and undo our fastenings, which in every case we found
exactly as we made them. When we had taken the medium
out of the black bag we were all very anxious to ascertain
about the rings, and sure enough both rings were found on
his left wrist under the blue shirt, the stitching and fasten¬
ings in every case being intact. There was no doubt about
it; the ligatures and knots and straps and all were exactly in
the same condition at the termination of the seance as at the
time we put the medium into the bag, and the rings were
unmistakably tight upon his skin. The said rings were so
small that they were with slight difficulty moved backwards
and forwards over the prominent portion of the wrist bone.
On the medium taking off the black kids, it was specially re¬
marked by several of the more careful observers that his
nails were considerably long and fouled, whereas it had been
noticed particularly that the spirit hands—some of which
were much larger than the medium’s—had in every case nails
well pared, and of neat appearance. In conclusion, I would
say that the medium retired with me to my house, when he
said he hoped the rings would be removed by the spirits
during the night. My surprise was great next morning to
find but one ring on his wrist, and the other one was found
on his bedroom floor. This ring he left in Leeds; the other
he took to London, still on his wrist. Gr. Hudson,
Leeds, August 28th, 1876.
Sept. 8, 1876.
THE SPlHITUAlilST.
67
REMARKABLE SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE. | j
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light" (August 12th, 1876J. |j|
Several of the seances which I attended during my late stay with |)
Dr. Slade in New York, were held during the day, the clear sunlight j\j
streaming in through two large windows. Under these conditions, no jj
one being present but the medium and myself, a double slate placed in
upon the top of the table was filled inside with writing. This slate was
not touched by the medium, whose hands were clasping mine while the jj
communication was being written. Chairs several feet from us were I]
overthrown and lifted again, being, at my request, replaced as they had \)\
stood before, and sometimes held for several seconds suspended in the j)
air. Hands were felt and seen, and other phenomena occurred which \l\
are only in rare cases to be witnessed in broad daylight. The hands |j|
were strong in their grasp, and very distinctly shown. One of them i)j
forced itself, with apparent difficulty, under the cuff of my sleeve, and |/i
clasped my arm forcibly. At one of these light seances a copy of is!
Webster’s unabridged dictionary, which lay upon a desk some distance j j
off, was brought and fell upon the table, striking the hand of the medium j)
and bruising it severely. ! jj
On another occasion a large walking-stick, which had been standing J j!
against the wall at a distance from where we sat, came towards the table j j|
and danced about on the floor, at my right hand and opposite the medium, j j
as if it were alive. It then proceeded, by leaning over, to force itself | j
under a table cover which had been thrown over the back of a chair j j
standing beside me, and rising upright again, with the red drapery jj
hanging about it, resumed its pas de seul with apparent satisfaction and i)
in the most animated manner. j j
After, as it seemed, exhausting itself by its efforts, it fell upon the i j
floor and moved no more. The effect of this exhibition, as seen in broad ;)
daylight, was not only remarkable, but extremely ludicrous, and the |j
most earnest stickler for a serious and devout spirit at stances could j j
hardly have maintained his gravity in witnessing it. If not a sublime j)
or dignified manifestation, it was, at least, a very innocent one, and j j
since nature is not always on her dignity, and human nature has many | j
varied phases, all good in their way, I do not think we should object i)
because those who return to us as human as they went indulge in |j
harmless fun occasionally. j j
During my last visit to Dr. Slade I had only one sitting for materiali- j)
sation, as the heat of the weather made this form of manifestation Ij
difficult to the spirits and exhausting to the medium. He used no jj
cabinet or curtain, hut simply turned the gas partially down in the room I)
in which we had been sitting the greater part of the day. The forms j j
gathered like a rapidly forming cloud, becoming gradually more dense, jj
and taking shape before our eyes. They were extremely ethereal, so j ]
much so that objects were sometimes visible through them. As they j j
drew near, both the face and the drapery became more material, and j j
the latter swept over my head and shoulders as the form seemed to pass ! j
unobstructed through me. No words were spoken, but only affirmative n
nods, or a shake of the head to indicate a negative reply. The faces jj
were not sufficiently material for me to recognise them, though in one I j j
saw a general resemblance to a spirit friend who had shown herself j j
distinctly when I sat with Dr. Slade four years ago. The peculiar jj
interest of these materialisations was in their being produced without j
any preparation, in a common sitting-room, used throughout the day, i
even the hanging of a curtain being dispensed with.
On the evening of April 26th, we sat in the dark for voices, the j<
medium frequently making remarks and exclamations while the spirit i1
was speaking, so that I was forced again and again to urge him to re- j J
main silent. After some conversation on family matters with dear i<
friends, a loud male voice uttered these words, the speaker standing j1
apparently close to my side: “ Good evening, my friend. Tell Colby
that William White bids him God-speed, and tells him to keep firmly
in his present course, and fear nothing. We are with him. Tell Mrs.
Hardy to stand on her rights and not yield an inch. Say that I tell her j
to be strong and fear not; we will see her through." Some of the
voices were in whispers, but this and one or two others were loud, !
bearing no resemblance to that of the medium. One, the sweetest I j
ever heard from man or spirit, spoke in an Indian language. Seven I
spoke in succession. Sometimes the sounds seemed to draw nearer and I
nearer, till the speaker was close to my ear, and I felt the form against
my side, and again the voice floated away, as if rising in the air and
passing slowly to the furthest extremity of the large room in which we
sat. Frequently hands touched and grasped me; my hair was smoothed j
by them, and firm, voluminous drapery drawn over my face, shutting
out the streaks of light which came through the crevices of the closed I
shutters. During these dark s&ances I either held the hands of the
medium or kept my feet upon his.
One day while Dr. Slade and I were conversing on general subjects,
not during a stance, he exclaimed that he saw the form of a woman
standing behind me. I did not recognise, from the description, any one
I had ever known, and he added that she held over my head a cross.
That evening, when we had our sitting, the following was written upon
a slate placed on the top of the table:—
“ Dear Woman, and let me say Friend,—I have been a long time trying to I
come to some medium so I could speak a word to my friends. My name is
Catherine Paul, the wife of Joseph Paul. I left my form November the 19th,
1872. My remains wore taken from my home, 246, West 35th-street, on Thurs¬
day moming, to the Church of the Holy Innocents that was on 37th-street,
where mass was performed. Now my body is at rest in Calvary Cemetery, j
and I want my friends to know I am with them and anxious to tell them how
happy I would be if they would believe I can return. My religion did do me
good. Also mass after death helped me to feel better and more happy. All
will be happy who try to live a good, true life. My friends will see this if you
publish it. Will you please do so, and oblige, Catherine Paul.”
On showing this letter to my friends, Robert Dale Owen and Dr.
Crowell, they urged me, as I was unable to attend to it myself, to com¬
mission a friend to make inquiries and ascertain whether such a person
as Catherine Paul had lived and died as indicated by the communication.
I did so, and after some trouble and many searchings after parties pos¬
sessed of the requisite knowledge, all the statements made in the letter
were found to be correct. Such a woman had lived, four years ago, at
246, West 35th-street, had died November 19th, 1872, and been buried,
on Thursday, from the Church of the Holy Innocents, in Calvary
Cemetery.
Some weeks after these inquiries had been made, and the subject dis¬
missed from our minds, the medium was sitting unoccupied in a rock¬
ing-chair, my sister being in the room, when he started with a sharp
exclamation of fright and surprise, and, putting his hand to the back of
his neck, declared that something had fallen and struck him there. My
sister noticed upon his throat a bright red mark as he took from the spot
indicated a slip of paper on which was written in pencil “ C. Paul died
November 19th, 1872." The woman living in the house formerly occu¬
pied by Mrs. Paul did not remember, when my friend first called upon
her, the date of the death, but said she would ascertain from the under¬
taker or sexton who had the record, and would send a note to Dr. Slade’s
residence containing the desired information. This note failed to come,
though, on inquiry, we learned that it had been written, and that in it
the statement was made that “ C. Paul died November 19th, 1872.” It
would seem that the spirit had used the power afforded by the medium
to quote these words upon paper, and bring them to us in the way de¬
scribed. She was probably anxious to remind me of her behest and of
my promise, the performance of which will, I hope, gratify her and bring
to her friends the assurance which she was so desirous to have them
receive through the publication of her letter. Louisa Andrews.
Erratum.—The seance with Mr. Williams, described by Mr. Pycock
in our last, took place at Antwerp, and not at Brussels.
Last week an interesting account of seances held in a family circle at
Brighton, appeared in the Brighton and Sussex Daily Post.
The Penny Illustrated Paper of last week contains a large engraving,
representing the Davenport Brothers in their cabinet, also a picture of
Faraday’s apparatus for indicating the existence of unconscious muscu¬
lar action—that long-since-exploded explanation of certain spiritual
phenomena.
. Dr. Slade has received invitations to hold stances in Berlin and
Leipzig on his way to St. Petersburg. Dr. Slade has determined to
make no more than the necessary halts on the road, and to defer all
further appointments on the Continent until after the fulfilment of his
engagements in the Russian capital.
The Revival of Spirituality.—The Boston Sunday Herald says:—
“ The spiritual reorganisation, which is the necessary condition of all
social reorganisation, must repose upon the authority of demonstration;
it must be based upon science, with a priesthood properly constituted
out of the regenerated scientific classes. In other words, the spiritual
authority must issue from a philosophy which can be demonstrated, and
not from a philosophy which is imagined.”
Spirit Messages.—We have abundant proof of long conversations
held with supposed spirits, where voices independent of the medium’s
have been used, and where the intelligence, and thought, and language
given through them have been worthy of a Plato or a Kant; so we well
know that the reckless assertion so often made, that our spirit communi¬
cations are all trash, is made in utter ignorance oi all the facts.—Banner
of Light.
Library of the National Association of Spiritualists. — The
library at 38, Great Russell-street, has lately received the following
addition of books, presented by Mr. W. M. Wilkinson:—Davis’s Great
Harmonia, one vol.; Richer’s Key to the Mystery; Hayden’s Pheno¬
mena of Modern Spiritualism; Spicer’s Sights and Sounds; D. D.
Home’s Revelations sur ma vie surnaturelle; Swedenborg a Hermetic
Philosopher; Tallmadge’s Healing of the Nations, and various early
numbers of the Spiritual Magazine.
Several inquirers have lately become members of the National
Association of Spiritualists, it being now generally understood that no
one joining the Association is expected to subscribe to any special views
or doctrines in explanation of the phenomena of Spiritualism. Thus
one of the most important objects for which the Association was founded
is being attained—that of “ aiding students and inquirers in their re¬
searches.” The names of members joining on this footing are, if they
should so desire it, not made public.
Mr. Spurgeon on Spiritual Control of the Body.—Mr. Spurgeon
recently said :—“ How is it that a spirit can dwell within an abode of
flesh, look out of these eyes, listen through these ears, speak by these
lips, and perform its will by these hands ? Eyes and ears and hands
are but earth; they are made of such matter as we meet with in other
parts of the solid world, mere dust of the earth, materialism wisely
moulded, but yet corruptible materialism; and yet the soul somehow
manages to indwell and inhabit its house of clay—a far more wonderful
thing, it seems to me, than for a spirit to exist without a body.”
The National Association of Spiritualists.—At the last Council
meeting the motion to no longer exclude as members of Council, those
Spiritualists who received payment for services or goods rendered to the
National Association, was not brought forward by Mr. Dawson Rogers,
as we stated, but by another member, and we exceedingly regret the
error. It arose in consequence of Mr. Rogers having given notice of
such a motion, for the purpose, as he afterwards stated, of raising a
discussion on the question; but he afterwards seconded Mr. Joy’s
amendment in opposition to admitting paid members to the Council,
which amendment was unfortunately lost.
68
Sept. 8, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Cormponuetue,
\_9reat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPECULATIONS ABOUT THE PRE-EXISTENCE OP THE SOUL.
Sir,'—I find the last letters on reincarnation in The Spiritualist are
headed “ The Controversy on Reincarnation.’’ If our differences are to
assume that title, and the controversy to continue, allow me to suggest
that the subject should be discussed with that calmness and urbanity,
which become a very momentous question, and which the writers in
The Spiritualist, certainly for the most part adopt, and especially when
referring to ladies. If we allow our feelings to master our judgment,
we do not forward our object, and at the same time become subject to a
quality generally quoted as a feminine attribute, but which, if truly
quoted, has certainly found some very marked exceptions indeed in the
field of Spiritualism. It might be well, moreover, in furtherance of
truth, goodwill, and propriety of action, to keep in mind that men are not
the cause of this controversy, not even Jesuits, but, as has been pro¬
bably always the case, spirits, and that, in the present day of free dis¬
cussion, the controversy on this very ancient topic is not likely to
be swamped by the numerically stronger or more blatant party, as was
the case in the middle ages, when the Peripatetics subjected the Pla-
tonist Christians to fire, sword, and persecution of every description,
spiritual and carnal.
Brevity also, in itself so necessary in your most important and
crowded journal, may, if carried to an extreme, miss its aim, and become
misleading. For instance, it would require a great stretch of imagina¬
tion to understand the few words on old religious doctrines in Baron
Holmfeld’s letter of June 10th to mean all his interpretation of them in
his letter of August 18th, in The Spiritualist. Had he so ex¬
pressed himself at first, I should have been the first to acknow¬
ledge my accord with him, that spirits of evil-doers very fre¬
quently do appear to clairvoyants in animal forms, doubtless, as the
Baron remarks, “ according to the animal propensities of their ill-used
self-hood,” just as the defunct friends of Ulysses appeared to the medium
Circe. And, as Kardec says, “ The perisprit expands, contracts, and
transforms itself in accordance with the desire that sets it in motion.
It is a full knowledge of this, not only from experience, but from the
dicta of superior spirits, which has led modern reincarnationists not
only to reject metempsychosis in its retrograde sense, but to recognise
that that doctrine probably originated from the ancient seers believing
spirits so appearing to be really those of animals, when they were
intrinsically only the spirits of men, “transforming themselves in
accordance with their desires.” With regard to the Baron’s assumption
that “ Evolution, in a life of liberty, of necessity involves the possi¬
bility of descending into animals just as well as ascending,” I would
refer him to Kardec’s Livre des Mediums, “ The Medium’s Book,” part
2nd, ch. xxii., and also to Speculations about the Beginning of Life, a
translation from the French in The Spiritualist of August 4th, for the
refutation of that assertion.
There is one point in the Baron’s explanation of the meaning of his
former letter which I read with surprise, proceeding, as it does, from a
Spiritualist. He writes of evil-doers, after leaving the natural world,
being, B in a spiritual future, or in hell, left to the animal propensities
of their ill-used self-hood;” while subsequently, as if to remove any
doubt as to his assumed meaning of the term left, he writes of the
opinions of a believer in reincarnation as being contrary to “ a revealed
Divine Word, which teaches a directly opposite doctrine of unavoidable
judgment after death.” Now, would the Baron, since he refers to the
revealed Divine Word in the direction I have pointed out, deny to
David the application to himself of the prophetic assumption, “ Thou
wilt not leave my soul in hell,” though St. Peter, so many hundred years
afterwards, alleged that David had not then ascended into heaven?
Would the Baron deny to mankind in general the use of the 10th Psalm,
where David so pathetically prophecies his own final delivery ? Would
he, I say, deny the use of this psalm to any soul upon earth, to help
him in his faith, his prayers, and his personal aspirations ? If so, I am
sorry for him ! Would he persuade any believer in a Redeemer of the
world to forego the frequent, the legitimate prayer, that the Redeemer
of the world will not be angry with the world for ever ? If so, perhaps
he will give us his interpretation of the Greek word ai&vioQ, pronounced
aiownios, so long a subject of conflict in the churches. How does the Baron
make these assertions tally with his letter of June 10th, where he writes
of “ a law of never-ceasing development,” for which he adds, mistakingly,
“the reincarnationists substitute a physical remoulding into another
individual ? ” Does not this discrepancy look like writing from feeling
rather than from conviction, and demonstrate a yielding to so-called
feminine idiosyncrasies, which he professes to despise ? Is it not more
hopeful for suffering humanity, to use the Baron’s own ironical words,
that “ sublime reincarnation should make even adult men to be reborn
as natural infants,” than that they should be “ left in hell ” by “ the
doctrine of unavoidable judgment after death,” though their sojourn of
suffering may have been as long as it has been dreadful ? Let me refer
the Baron to M. Kardec’s Ciel et VEnfer (Heaven and Hell), to point
out, in a very marked manner indeed, that future life trials, in respect
both to time and severity, are not “ merely a supposition,” while as
to his calumny, that “ Christianity is not admitted by reincarnationists,”
I can only add that it is entirely refuted in Kardec’s L'Evangile selon le
Spiritisme (The Gospel according to Spiritualism), Miss Blackwell’s
Testimony of the Ages, and the works of reincarnationists, who follow
Kardec, everywhere.
The Baron refers to Addison’s Spectator in confirmation of his views.
Let me remind him that Addison was the author of the well-known lines
on immortality, in which “that sound British rationalist” makes that
great Pythagorean reincarnationist, Plato, his authority for argument
on immortality:—
11 “ It must be so—Plato, thou reason’st well!—
(j Else whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire,
) | This longing after immortality!
)! Or whence this secret dread, and inward horror
rj Of falling into naught ? Why shrinks the soul
(| Back on herself and startles at destruction?
) i *Tis the divinity that stirs within us;
) I ’Tis heav’n itself that points out our hereafter,
And intimates eternity to man.”
) | Since the Baron gives over the reincarnationists so uncompromisingly
jj to the “ Kako demons,” i.e., evil demons, I feel bound to quote a few
t! words in their favour from a letter by Miss Kislingbury in The Spiritualist
1! of August 18th. That talented lady, after alluding to the extraordinary
| i prophetic foreknowledge since realised, displayed in the works of Kardec,
ii adds—“The great value of the Kardec writings is, in my opinion, that
11 they set forth as the aim of his doctrines, the moral elevation of man—an
, I aim which I once fondly hoped was to be achieved by what we under-
11 stand as Spiritualism, but which experience shows that mere phenomen-
i alism will never accomplish.” Is Baron Holmfeld prepared to deny
! i these opinions ? If so, let him do so; if not, let him remember that a
j tree is known by its fruit.
j In answer to the Baron’s remark that “ reincarnationists are interiorly
11 the prey of such obsessing false spirits,”—i.e., spirits teaching reincar-
] nation ideas—I can only reply that Kardec was no medium, therefore he
could not be obsessed, but a man of clear judgment, who has given
mediums perhaps the best rules extant for getting rid of obsessing
spirits, Luther not excepted. Personally, beyond the Bible, reason,
| the writings of reincarnationists ancient and modern, the consensees of
| the ages, and my own opinion concerning the aiown (aiwv), I know very
little. I do not remember to have received a single personal communi-
! cation from a spirit in favour of reincarnation in my life, though I have
great comfort in believing, from evidence which satisfies myself, that
souls, God’s offspring, by coming back to earth in the flesh, give good
token, the best that we in the flesh can conceive, that they are neither
left in hell nor lost, but are moving on visibly, under “a law of never
ceasing development.”
Baron Holmfeld bids us— “ Ask the millions of living men whether
any one of them knows of ever having been another person, and he will
| answer, ‘No! ’” Of course he will, and for the best of reasons, because
] he never has been another person. He has merely changed his station;
he now follows a new calling; he has got another place, but keeps his
individuality. Christ, speaking of John the Baptist, did not say, “ This
man has been another person,” but “ This is Elias.” A spirit, having
| attained individuality, remains one—ever one ! On the mazy trail of
early progress we slough our skins, like the snake, and grow thereby.
On the material tree of life we change our coverings, like the silkworm,
until, under Providence, we have weaved for ourselves a golden habita-
i tion, from whence we emerge into a more perfect life and condition,
| while retaining our identity. M.A. (Cantab.)
THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
Sir,—Once having succeeded in obtaining implicit and instinctive
obedience, I have in reality gained everything required of a child. I
easily get it to pay attention; its fingers are taught not to go straying
after that which is not given to it.
There must be some strange instinct which makes a child secrete a
pebble, a little piece of stick, old match, old dirty rag, scrap of paper,
or dead fly, for the purpose of twirling it about in its fingers the moment
it is asked to answer a question, or to repeat a lesson. In default of
such provision a corner of the pinafore will be found an invariable
solace for the nervous little fingers. All nervous or involuntary move¬
ments or tricks should be rooted out in children as early as possible;
disobedience is often an involuntary action, proceeding, as it frequently
does, from the forgetfulness, or want of attention on the part of the child;
and one act of disobedience on the part of that child is a sign that suf¬
ficient attention is not bestowed by the teacher.
Having explained how it is that I start in my creche (as it were) by
obtaining from my children implicit obedience and all their attention,
my readers will understand that I have no difficulty in obtaining
silence.
I set the infants, old enough to sit up, at the table. I have a bag of
snippets or old rags cut up into pieces about an inch or two inches
square, and I teach the children to pull out the threads one by one, to
make little heaps of shreds, and when a sufficient quantity has been
pulled it is used for stuffing their pillows. “ Stuffing pillows for poor
little children /” that is what they are brought up to do. To work for
others! “The more pillows they stuff, the more poor children can Grannie
get,” so they generally unpick with a good will. The divers colours,
shapes, and sizes among the snippets are ceaseless topics of interest.
Serge is the easiest thing for children to pick at. Difficulties should
be kept in the background in training children; therefore it is very
important children should never be given to do that which does not
amuse them, and which they cannot, at once, do easily. Tearing is a
thing all children delight in. Destroying these coloured snippets and
making them look like something else is real delight, and children joy¬
fully sit three or four hours steadily at this mechanical occupation, which
educates their natural instincts of destruction and activity—commonly
called “mischief.”
To a grown-up person this occupation savours of sameness, and my
readers must, I dare say, have difficulty in believing that it is rather
difficult to suppress the excitement of the children at the colour or pat¬
tern of some of the snippets. The size, the shape of the heap is of over¬
powering and never dying interest; the difficulty of preventing shouts
and conversation is the work of one person, and if I had fifty children,
it would be at least two persons’ business besides myself to keep order.
While all this is going on—(let us imagine fifty children of different
ages present)—some babies are asleep, some prattling prettily and cheer-
THE SPIXtITUALIST.
69
Sept. 8, 1876.
fully to themselves, or listening to what is going on. What is going on ?
Grannie is at the piano playing certain chords and exercises, and the
elder children are singing them. The exercises are repeated one after
the other three times, and the full exercises on one sound take from
twenty to forty minutes according to the number of notes practised.
 — Georgina Weldon.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—I have often read with much interest in your journal strange
narratives of clairvoyance or “ spirit-seeing ” through the mediumship
of certain persons connected with Spiritualism, especially such as Miss
Lottie Fowler, whose reputation is well known. And as too much evi¬
dence cannot be adduced in support of any cause, I wish to relate a few
facts which have come within my own experience, and which are accu¬
rate in every respect.
No doubt many of the readers of The Spiritualist have already heard
of Miss Jessie Nicole, of Newcastle, to whose mediumship I am indebted
for the wonderful tests of spirit identity which I am about to narrate.
She is only sixteen years of age, and although her mother informs me
that she has described the presence of dead persons since her earliest
childhood, yet the exercise of her medial powers among Spiritualists
began within the last twelve months.
I sat with the family, who are nearly all mediums of some kind—for the
first time in March last, and previously I knew nothing of any of them.
I was introduced by a friend of the family, with whom I became
acquainted whilst attending a seance at Weirs Court, in this town, a
few nights previously, and who informed me of tests received by himself
through Miss Nicole. Up to that time I had received no evidence of
the presence of departed relations, although I was a three years’ old
inquirer into Spiritualism, so when I sat down in the strange circle I
did not expect much. We took our seats, which were arranged to form
a circle. I was opposite to “ Jessie,” who was looked on by the others as the
most developed of their mediums. The light was extinguished to afford
greater facilities for seeing the spirit forms. After singing a little, the
medium began to describe different appearances presented to her
spiritual vision, whilst she was in a normal condition. Presently she
began to describe a tall man, thin faced, very light eyes, and looking
anxiously at myself; she also estimated his age, from appearance, to be
about 46, and told me exactly how he wore his beard and hair. I
recognised the description as that of my father, who died on the 7th of
December last, but I said nothing to anyone at the time. She next told
me he was baring his breast, and immediately exclaimed, “ Oh, what a
great scar there is;” and in reply to my inquiry as to the appearance of
the scar, she said it looked like a burn or cut, reddish-blue in colour,
and extending right across the breast.
At this point the medium was controlled, and advancing towards me,
exclaimed, “ Oh, William,” and placing her hands on my shoulders,
wept over me bitterly. I can never forget the indescribable sensation I
felt, as I became more convinced that I was really in the presence of
my father. On my asking the cause of his apparent grief, the words,
“ I was not spared to speak to you ” were sobbed out, which I instantly
recognised as alluding to his passing away about ten minutes before my
arrival home to see him, after being summoned in haste, for I had a
distance of 73 miles to travel. References to different members of my
family at home were made, and I was requested to tell them all that he
was “ quite happy,7’ and that they need not fret after him. After the
seance concluded a light was struck, and, before my departure, Miss
Nicole was controlled again, and, to my astonishment, her face was
transformed, for a short time, into a very striking likeness of my de¬
ceased father. The last manifestation has frequently occurred since
then.
At a sitting a few nights afterwards, the medium announced my
father’s presence again, and on this occasion I had a remarkable test,
and one which I commend to the notice of Dr. Carpenter and his dis¬
ciples. After being told that he was standing near me, I remarked to
the medium that I thought she had described all his peculiarities. Pre¬
sently she told me he had turned his back towards her, and baring his
left shoulder proceeded to show to her a very large brown mole in close
proximity to the shoulder blade,” as it is commonly called. Well, I
was at a loss completely, as I had not the slightest knowledge of such
a mark. Neither had any of his brothers, to whom I mentioned this
afterwards. However, I wrote to my mother, asking her about it, and
as she was not acquainted with Spiritualism, I did not tell her my
reason for asking.
From her reply I quote the following, “ You ask—had your father a
‘ mole ’ on his back? Yes, he had one, close behind his left shoulder.
I am at a loss to know your motive for asking such a question, but it is
quite correct.” I will just relate one more of the numerous tests given
me. My father only sat once during his life for a portrait, and it was
taken on glass. I took it to a photographer, and had some more copied
from it on cardboard. I then procured some other photographs of men
about the same age and general appearance, representing persons the
medium knew nothing about. I put the whole into an album, which
was filled with portraits of different people. I repaired to Mrs.
Nicole’s, and laying the album on the table, requested Miss Nicole to
show me the portrait of the spirit-friend she had described to me; she
opened the album, and looking over it carefully I left her, and was con¬
versing with Mrs. Nicole, when our medium was suddenly controlled,
and turning round to us took me by the hand, led me to the table, and
pointed out to me the portrait of my father. I asked if it was my father
who controlled, and was answered affirmatively by a “nod” of the
medium’s head. By the time she regained her normal state I had closed
the album, and she, seeming to be unaware of having fulfilled my
request, I told her to try again to find the picture I wished for. This
she did in a few seconds, telling me it was the only one like the person
she had seen. I was quite satisfied and convinced, and felt I had got
clear evidence of a future state, which I still believe in, and which I had
not the least proof of before. I begun to investigate Spiritism in the
I year 1873. Since that time I have experienced enough to stagger any
mind sceptical as to immortality. The facts given speak for themselves,
and need no comment; the medium could by no means have gained any
| information from any one, respecting what she related to me. She
knew none of my relations, and was, and still is, a total stranger to all
my family; she never heard of or knew me before I was as already
stated, introduced to her a few months since. Before I conclude it is
necessary to state—and I should have done so before—that my father
died after a long illness from “ aneurism of the aorta,’’ and the scar on his
| breast, was caused by his being operated upon five different times, and
it presented the same appearance as described by Miss Nicole. He was
47 years old, so that her estimate was nearly correct in reference to his
! age.
| I write these facts for publication in your most valuable paper, and as
| a slight recognition of Miss Nicole’s services, and as testimony to the
valuable phases of mediumship with which she is gifted, and to which
] others as well as myself can testify. With care in developing I think
she may look forward to a useful career. W. Bowman.
49, Pine-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Aug. 28.
SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITUALITY.
. Sir,—It is written “ we,” the non-reincarnationists, “ represent
physics, they,” the reincarnationists, “ morality! ” God forbid, sir, that
this awful confession be true, and that we be really in antithesis to
morality. Surely, if morality and spirituality be not the basis of our
Spiritualism, if higher and nobler views of morality and religion be
not its ultimate object, if physics be the only ensign graven on our
banner, our Spiritualism is nought, and the hope that we may “ ulti¬
mately arrive at one goal,” with those who represent morality, wild
indeed. Physics may be, and no doubt are, useful as a means to an end,
but are not a worthy motive of action—not a master to be served, not
an aim to be glorified. This would be phenomenalism with a vengeance.
But I am happy to say, sir, I quite agree with you that it does not
necessarily follow that those who have set up an idol, whether it be re¬
incarnation or anything else, hold a monopoly of morality. I firmly
believe, and I think I have good reason for believing, if the tree is
known by its fruits, that the aims and motives of many non-reincar¬
nationists are as high and pure, i.e., as moral, as those of any of the
opposite school.
Nor do I see any reason why it should be otherwise. And I am
surprised that any should be found, not only to admit the contrary, but
to seem rather to glory in it.
Mr. Markley seems to me to touch a higher, truer, nobler chord in his
letter. There is, no doubt, too little spirituality in our Spiritualism ;
but I cannot bring myself to think, as your other correspondent seems
to do, that it is because we do not believe in reincarnation.
  A. Joy,
REGENERATION Versus REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I have some confidence in your British heart, which is gene¬
rally disposed to side with the weak, and the assistance I expect is space
for these few lines, in which I announce my submission to the Herculean
antagonist, who has come forward anonymously as B. P. J. in your
paper of the 18th, against my Blackwell review in the August number
of the Spiritual Magazine. I show the white feather because I am
afraid B. P. J. might be a reincarnated Minerva, jumping in full armour
from a feverish Jupiter-brain, so I had better keep quiet and bear the
aspersions with which she honours me. But it might quite as well be
a reincarnated Bacchanalian, shouting his Evoe in my face. There
really is something in favour of my first impression, because, as B. P. J.
confesses not to have read the reviewed essay itself, there is a great
probability of her not-at-all having read even the critical review which
is so strongly castigated. It would be preposterous to enter into combat
with such an impartial writer. In such a case as this it is advisable to
hold one’s tongue.
Now you see, Mr. Editor, I am not at all in the mood for fighting,
and I will not risk a rencontre with such a formidable know-nothing
enemy. But, whether the horns which threaten my young life are those
of a she-goat, or of a he-goat, I regret the aggression, and take to my
heels. Nevertheless, because in some future emergency my heels may
show something of the Achilles quality, and will not suffice to protect me
in my flight, I wish to throw out a suggestion to my glorious adversary.
If it is a she-male, I wish she would ponder whether there is reason, or
may be truth in my reasons, or in my attempt at reasoning. I always
have tried to give reasons for my opinions, even for my intuitions, im¬
pressions, and emotions, and, as I invariably state these reasons, I never
shall be afraid of discussing the sufficiency of the adduced evidence. If
contrariwise, B. P. J. is a he-male, he, of course, will meet me on the
rational plane, even if he shrinks from the spiritual. But it is time to
tell why I deal with one point, though I refrain from repelling the
attack. B. P. J. musters the whole fair sex in array against me, tell¬
ing me, by the way, that I do not understand it, not being aware of
the great change our modern era has wrought in its position and re¬
lation to humanity, universally, and to the male sex especially.
Perhaps I have misunderstood his or her meaning. Perhaps I really
did not understand the sex, and perhaps neither he nor she has
understood it; and, finally, nobody understands it. I will not speak
of B. P. J.’s curious idea that nowadays an essential change should
have taken place, woman no mere being what she from creation had
been made to be. What an incredible revolution in the evolution of
mankind must it have been, when, without our being aware of it,
the quality of the fair sex at once had undergone a total change,
particularly as nobody, B. P. J. as little as anybody else, can state, or
say, or guess what this change is, or might be, in what it consists, and
what is the end of it! Swift, perchance, or Lucian redivivus might tell
70 THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 8, 187(5.
us, and perhaps B. P. J. is Lucian reincarnated. I cannot get out of
this dark labyrinth, except by simply stating and explaining my plain
views of what the fair sex from the Creation always had been, is, and
will continue to be without any change as to essence and to form.
The fair sex is created and born to teach man love, to act upon him
and educate him to the purpose of loving and being and causing happi¬
ness through love. Thus she herself is love, incarnated love, endowed
with the faculty of elevating her soul to higher love in its essential,
celestial degree, and with the liberty of joining herself to man in what¬
ever lower, egotistical, sensual degree he may entice her to follow him.
There is either ascent or descent in her love. Thence her natural love
is to the infant she has horn in her bosom, to the family she has around
her, to the household, whose preserving and animating soul she is, to the
husband who without her is only a calculating machine, dry, cold, ego¬
tistical, a wasted power, reduced to nought. Make her male, and you
are a malevolent rascal, and she will become a reckoning machine
like yourself, dry, cold, nasty, nauseous, a blue-stocking for a wooden leg,
an unenjoyable paragon of disgust instead of a delectable paragon of
amiability. You want to'introduce her into the male department of cal¬
culating, reasoning, &c., and you make a political, philosophical mon¬
ster of her, an imitation of a man. If you are a male and do so, you are
an infernal scoundrel. If you are a female, you are a deluded non¬
sensical being, unfit for life as God wills it.
You see, I could write a book about it, without exhausting the matter..
But I know that the view I take of the sex exalts it beyond description,
beyond what B. P. J. could ever say or think. Dr. J. Garth Wilkinson
has recently given some fine elucidations about the paragon sex in his
book about science. Bead that before we begin to fight.
Dirckinck Holmfeld.
Pinneberg, Holstein.  
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—I have just read Mr. Maskelyne’s book, and he has, to my
thinking, written cleverly (assuming, of course, that he wrote it himself);
but to a reader wanting to know the truth of the matter, it sadly fails
just where it should explain. Sarcasm and jest will not convince where
sober argument is essential.
Spiritualism affords plenty of scope for such a book as Mr. Maskelyne
writes, but sq does the Christian World, in a similar way. It offers
any amount of nonsense if we take the trouble to gather it, but would a
collection of the weak and odd sayings, doing, sins, and opinions of pro¬
fessing Christians, prove Christianity to be all humbug ? I am afraid
Mr. Maskelyne would not admit it.
It strikes me that a fair thing now for Mr. Maskelyne to do would be
to visit Dr. Slade, and give his candid opinion afterwards in The Spirit¬
ualist whether it is all a trick or whether there is something in it. He
should not object to do this on the ground that he declines to fee a
rogue—for he must think all mediums such—but he should be manly
enough to accept an invitation to witness phenomena in the light, and I
am sure Mr. Blackburn will only be too glad to see him come. Now,
Mr. Maskelyne, what say you ? The conditions are surely all you could
desire, and thousands would look with interest for your opinion. Will
you, therefore, condescend to oblige or remain away ? G. G.
Edinburgh, August 31st.
MONSIEUR FABRE, THE DRAWING MEDIUM.
Sir,—I send you a translation of an account which I have received
from Monsieur Leymarie of the mediumship of Monsieur Fabre, through
whom was produced the very remarkable and beautiful drawing now to
be seen at the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, and
which I mentioned in my notes from Paris.
Gustave Fabre was a journeyman machine smith: he has a slight
knowledge of mechanical drawing, as taught to boys at school; but he is
illiterate and uneducated, and knows nothing of artistic drawing, such
as he has executed mediumistically. He was on the point of drowning
himself in the harbour of La Foliette, to escape from a life which
extreme want had made insupportable, when Mr. Barneaud, a sculptor
of some note, came across him, gave him some food, and then set him
to work to reduce a block of marble, which, to the astonishment of Mr.
Barneaud, he proceeded to do in the most artistic manner, as though he
were an old hand. “ Why ! how is this ? You are a sculptor, then ? ”
“ Not I,” says Fabre, “ I never handled chisel or mallet before.”
“ Then,” says Berneaud, “you must have been a sculptor in a previous
existence; ” and then he spoke to him about Spiritualism and reincar¬
nation. Fabre, who was an atheist, said to himself, “ This is a noble
fellow, but evidently cracked on the subject of spirits.” Nevertheless, he
listened, and even allowed himself to be taken to seances, where he was
told by spirit communications that he was a drawing medium, and the
reincarnation of Benvenuto Cellini; at which he laughed, and said,
jeeringly, “ Then I suppose I shall presently execute some wonderful
performances.” Then, taking up a pencil, he rested the point on a sheet
of paper. His hand forthwith began to work as though the object of
the guiding force were to give suppleness to his stiff and callous joints.
The next day, and on the succeeding days, his hand drew noses, eyes,
ears, and at last a perfect leg, and outlines of figures, remarkable in the
boldness and delicacy of their execution. In a fortnight, during which
he sat for an hour daily, he drew like a finished artist. By this time
he was an enthusiast and a believer, and he asked that Kaphael Sanzio,
his controlling influence, would make him draw the battle between Con¬
stantine and Maxence, of which he had an outline sketch, such as is
given to art students. With a free hand, without rest, or rule, or com¬
pass, he sketched the outline with an extraordinary delicacy, six times
the size of the original, and completed the drawing in a month, in the
presence of witnesses. Professional draughtsmen say that it would have
taken a first-rate artist a year to execute this splendid and astonishing work.
He next made, in six weeks, a copy of Glaize’s picture of the capture of
Samson by the Philistines. The style is here so different that one would
never suppose that it came from the same hand as the former drawing;
the relief is so wonderful, the shadows so deep, and the execution so
spirited; the finish is exquisite, and the shadows look as though they
were cut out rather than mere pencil strokes. There is also the most
delicate stippling, the fineness of which can only be perfectly seen
through a strong magnifying glass. In doing all this work, his hand
travels with the rapidity of a machine.
Since the above he has produced three heads of Christ, so different in
execution, attitude, and touch, from one another, that they are evidently
the productions of different artists, who each send us a specimen from
their more exalted sphere.
Fabre is now at Marseilles, working at his trade for his daily bread.
The picture at the Association rooms is for sale, at .£8. A. Joy.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT REINCARNATION.
Sir,—There is a passage in Baron Holmfeld’s letter in The Spirit¬
ualist of August 18th, where he professes to quote from the writings of
Miss Blackwell, but he does not do so. Instead of this, the Baron
writes of “ Kakodemons, who rejoice in leading people astray, and who,
as Miss Blackwell pertinently has it, ‘ are only the reflex of the per¬
versity of the medium.’ ” And he adds, “ In this she is right, just as
in some other few remarks, which display her truly feminine aspirations.”
Now, where in the Prize Essay, or in any other of that lady’s writings,
does the sentence or the sentiment occur that kako, or evil demons, “ are
only the reflex of the perversity of the mediums ’’? Nowhere! I have
authority for saying so. What Miss Blackwell does assert, in page 19
of the first Prize Essay, is thisj: she says, “ It is. evident that the great
mass of medianimic communications can only be a reflex of the present
ideas of the spirits who are nearest to the earth, and of the mediums to
whom they are sympathetically attracted.” Here is a wide difference.
Miss Blackwell writes of medial communication not as an effect of the
perversity of the medium on spirits, but as a reflex of the present ideas
of spirits, as well as a reflex of the present ideas of mediums; while
the Baron, by misquotation, confines the cause of evil demons leading
people astray to centre in the medium alone, “ as only the reflex of the
perversity of the medium,” with the view, apparently, as the context
seems to show, of casting a new slur on “ feminine aspirations.”
It is a perverse thing, to say the least, to misquote this lady, or any
other person, for any purpose whatever, and surely it is a very poor way
of showing the superiority of mental endowment in the male sex.
There certainly seems good reason in the present day for supposing
that, far from kakodemons being “ only the reflex of the perversity of
the medium,” they are, on the contrary, and especially some of them on
the phenomenal plane, objectively far more false than any mediums, the
latter being apparently, when not under the control of perverse spirits,
honest men in the main, while perverse spirits everywhere, as is now
well known, and as has been always more than suspected, beat mortals
hollow in the art of successful misrepresentation. M. A. (Cantab.)
SPIRITUALISM AND THE PRESS.
Sir,—You will, perhaps, kindly allow me a word or two in reply to
Mr. C. C. Massey. Knowing, as I do, a little of the “ secrets of the
sanctum,” it never suggested itself to me that investigation and
inquiry would convince the whole body of journalists of the truth of
the theory of you Spiritualists. But a personal knowledge of the
peculiar “facts” of Spiritualism must have, with the majority, the
negative result which Mr. Massey admits might be expected ; and it is
that negative result, in the present position of Spiritualism, that is just
needed. So long as ninety-five per cent, of writers for the press put
down Spiritualism as trickery, and believe the illusionists of the
Egyptian Hall to have shown the whole system to be conjuring and
deception, so long will Spiritualism be tabooed as unworthy of more
than a passing thought. My own experience has been what, I believe,
will be that of every honest newspaper editor who inquires as I have
inquired. Twelve months ago it would have been almost impossible
for me to have written on Spiritualism without making what 1 now
know would have been deceiving mis-statements, j ust such as may be
read almost daily in our newspapers. Supposing I were a Spiritualist
(which I am not), my editorial “ we ” would, it is true, have no weight;
but, my judgment being assisted by some knowledge of the subject, if
the question of Spiritualism is referred to or discussed in the journal
with which I am connected, it is very likely to De fairly respected, and
not made the subject of feeble witticisms. Such fair discussion
familiarises the readers with Spiritualism, and is certain to lead to
individual study and examination. The opinion of journalists may be
nil compared with that of scientific men, but, as the latter hold aloof,
the former should not be ignored. If five hundred newspaper editors
could be convinced to-morrow that the facts of Spiritualism were true,
I believe they would before long cause such an uncertain feeling in the
minds of the people that scientists would wish to know something and.
to see something for themselves ; and that is, as I understand, the very
consummation for which you are praying. A Newspaper Editor.
Sir,—I hope Dr. Slade will prosecute The Standard for calling him
a ((first-class impostor.” It is most unfair that The Standard should
have refused to publish “A Barrister’s” letter (printed in your last
number), but newspapers think they have the right to libel mediums
with impunity. In the interests of Spiritualism, steps should be taken
to protect them. I would myself guarantee £20 towards a fund to aid
Dr. Slade in prosecuting The Standard for libel. Surely this is a fit
subject for consideration by the National Association of Spiritualists at
its meeting next Tuesday; indeed, it may not be necessary for the
whole Association to take up this matter, since some five or six of its
wealthier members could find all the funds without inconvenience to
themselves. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, W.C.
Sept. 8, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 71
REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH W. EGLINTON AND
ARTHUR COLMAN.
Sir,—Knowing that with the names of the distinguished mediums at
the top of my letter, the readers of The Spiritualist will feel attracted, and
peruse with attention the results of their combined powers in a circle,
highly favourable, “ to set free all there is,” I may be forgiven for taking
advantage of the occasion to state (according to my annual custom) my
impression about the progress of our cause on the Continent, having
returned to England on the same day of the memorable stance, last
Thursday, August 31st. I spent my holidays this time only in a
country place near Hamburg, a capital city for “ feeling the pulse ” of
the slowly-recovering spiritual consciousness of Fatherland. Hamburg
is said to be extremely materialistic, and, having an important harbour,
is more adapted for communication with other seaports, than with the
“ unseen universe.” The resistance of old, inborn traditions against
the waves of modern culture will always be features of attraction to the
student of history; but the redevelopment of the spiritual instincts of
human nature in general, crushed under the mighty blocks of modern
materialistic philosophy, will present a spectacle which will make ob¬
servers drop their eyeglasses, fancying themselves spell-bound before
other fascinating events of the day. The slow, poor advance of our
cause has cowed many a Spiritualist into despair, and killed his hope to
hail its triumph in this geueration. He would be right if the short,
measured steps of the past would indicate a permanent, slow march for
ever, but the Press, after continuing its elephant-like trampling on the
new intruder, has hurt itself at last, and as soon as people discover the
slightest limping, there will be a “ make up ” for lost time. If I noticed
not the least sign of progress since last year by way of increased demand
for periodicals or information on the subject of forming circles, the
simple fact, that there appeared some months ago in a prominent local
paper here an appeal to form an Association for Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism is a more salutary proof of inward growth, than stray records of
table-tilting, after perhaps sitting most harmoniously for the “ dema¬
terialisation of roast beef.”
Having satisfied myself that the arguments against our cause had lost
much of their former weight, I invited a little party of select friends to
the grounds of a brother of mine in Bahrenfeld, near Altona, and with
Baron DircMnck Holmfeld as a guest, felt confidence in doing a little
business. In relating our experiences many a smile passed over the
lips of our listeners (I perceived even a slight touch of elbows now and
then), and we of course, the Baron and myself, exchanged smiles in
turn, and when one gentleman very sensibly remarked, that the weighty
testimony of scientific men in all countries commanded respect, the as¬
surances of a highly fashionable Russian lady, who is acquainted with
Alex. Aksakof s position in the movement, completed a success, which
compared splendidly with former attempts, which generally ended in
wild rude laughter and abuse. With the first gleam of fairness in
newspaper reports there will be a general outburst of long suppressed
interest. This is my firm conviction, and that we are drawing near to
it shows the unmasked perfidy of recent writers. The eyes of the duped
sceptics will be opened, and hands, formerly stretched for applause, will
close into fists. That the grand wave of Spiritualism will reach
northern Germany last, as Baron Holmfeld remarked, may be true,
but a little sprinkling is already perceptible, and if the wind increases,
a forerunner of the coming rush may soon be expected. Last Tues¬
day I departed and alighted in London at the “Mysterious Cave,"
as the World has it, 8, Upper Bedford-place, where the last
vibrations of “sceptical Germany” were quite subdued by meet¬
ing Dr. Slade and W. Eglinton. Then, repairing to 38,
Woburn-street, the kind welcome of Miss Kislingbury would have
alone been sufficient to restore the perfect balance of my mind, but
to my surprise there came also Mr. C. Blackburn, of grim, sceptical
Manchester, and when Mr. Harrison and Mr. Martheze too put in an
appearance, indeed it looked like a concocted plan to crush out the
bewildering impression of sceptical Fatherland, and in shaking hands
with these Mends of truth I kicked from behind at the proud professors
of matter. Everybody, after some stay on the Continent, and a taste of
bitter opposition, will return with increased respect for those who have
kept faithful to their convictions, and particularly editors, who, carrying
single-handed their paper through the battle without having it torn to
pieces, deserve special praise. Personal differences, little bubbles of
temper, quite unavoidable in a movement shaking violently the ground
under the feet of all co-workers, ought to be taken in good humour; a
glance at the grand aim inspiring all, should dissolve petty quarrels
instead of allowing them to grow, like Pharaoh’s serpents, into ugly
forms, which present no other scientific value, than to show what a lot
of useless stuff can be made out of small material, if properly ignited.
Let me now describe the marvellous effect of the union of Eglinton’s
and Cblman’s mediumship in a perfectly harmonious circle, and I hope
your readers will feel compensated for their patience up to this point.
We assembled at Mr. Davis’s, Alexandra-villas, Clapton. I felt at
once to be in an atmosphere of power, before even sitting down, which
we did almost mechanically, as if gently pressed down by the invisibles,
sharing with us the happy anticipation of grand proceedings, which
were soon announced by the direct voice of one of the controlling spirits
of Mr. Eglinton. A poodle annoyed me a little by his presence at the
beginning, but perfect quiet being effected, I fancied that the animal had
been let out without my noticing it. Touches being felt under the table,
I put my hand down to the mysterious something. It felt rather cold
and clammy; I opened my full hand for the occasion, and secured—the
snout of the poodle ! An expression of disappointment in the direction
where the tail might be guessed coinciding with my own impression
(for the dog seemed delighted with my fondling), inspired me with the
resolution to order the brute out, which was quickly seconded by the
party whose delight with the lovely “ fanning ” was so cruelly cut short
!i by the brush of the tail. The dog was placed on the table to be for-
] warded by the spirits, so as not to disturb our sitting (in the dark).
I looked towards the door for a gleam of light when opened by a mate¬
rialised spirit or entranced medium; but nothing of the kind. After a
little while of perfect stillness, there was a kind of shuffling thud. The
poodle was outside ! I should have liked a look at him, standing with
pricked ears, wondering how he came there, sneaking off into his corner,
j reflecting over the marvels of Spiritualism, as we did inside; for indeed
| this tremendous fact made up fully for the preceding trouble ! Having
! thus disposed of the brute element in our circle, a succession of wonders
followed, like the emptying of an overladen cask. Mrs. Davis clairvoyantly
described clouds, which were later dimly seen by myself at the designated
| place, and finally became concentrated into the well-known phosphoric
| lamps, reflecting on the full form of a spirit, floating about several times
straight over my head, and in a manner to show a perfect isolation from
the mediums—for, although the seance was originally intended for Mr.
! Eglinton’s guides, the presence of Mr. Cblman’s attendant spirits soon
| became evident. Direct voices spoke with a distinctness winch forced
on us the impression of being in company with so many additional
| living beings. When Eglinton’s guide spoke quite away from his seat,
| Cblman’s “chief” conversed high over his medium’s head, and no
sooner had I turned my ear in that direction than he spoke close behind
me, triumphantly shouting, “ What do you say to that? ” I never wit-
I nessed such a play of detached voices before, and should it nevertheless
| be produced by elongation of the medium’s neck, the giraffes at the
“Zoo” would be licked into fits! The amount of “stuff” for the
! operating spirits must have been enormous, for the brightness of the
\ lamps was surprising, but rather flashing, so that the floating forms
i could only be caught by glimpses. The moving music-box and ringing
[ bell will kindly forgive for not being noticed, for what followed, after a
i short pause, was to me the grandest sight of all my past experiences,
! and, as far as I know, quite new. The curtains of the bow-window
| touched the walls, dividing thus the whole space across. A chair was
i (| placed near the small table (permanent in its place) in the centre, and
I j | on this table the burning lamp ! contrary to all custom, for I presumed
|) the medium was to be seated there too. I expressed my surprise, but
! ( Mrs. Davis acted on impression, as she explained, and so I gave in.
I) We remained round the table as before, Eglinton and Cblman sitting
! i opposite, and furthest from the curtain, through which the globe of the
| ( lamp and surroundings could be plainly seen; likewise all of us. I now
j)j expected the evolving of “forms” from behind the mediums, where a
| (j deep shadow would favour the process, for it seemed downright nonsense
1 | to me to place the lamp where the «entre of development would be
! ; expected. Being perplexed where to look out for a figure, we were
|Ji startled with discovering a shadow thrown on the wall by something
| j | between that point and the lamp! I heard a heavy thud, and Mr.
i)| Cblman exclaimed, “Mr. Eglinton has dropped on the floor!” We
j (i watched the curtains, which were pulled, then suddenly separated, and
i | i a full figure, the spirit Ernest, moving, bowing, whilst hoiding the curtains
111 wide apart, to let the light of the lamp reveal every feature, standing there
||| long enough to allow us to rub our eyes, and to make sure whether it
i 11 were true or not. If ever there was a temptation for a sceptic to rush
11| on a “ spirit,” to collar a fellow who found his way through a trap-door,
i (l here was one !—as I now, at my breakfast-table, coolly can assert. But
11| at the time no such thought could enter my mind, without making a fool
j(j of myself, considering the conditions and locality, and the circle, a
iji family gathering, at which my presence was a mere chance, in
| I consequence of meeting Mr. Eglinton the same morning, and whose
|(| kind suggestion brought me into this amiable circle. As I cannot
j)j willingly part with my theory, that materialisation must set out from
11! the dark, like the root of a plant, I feel perplexed at finding no such
j(i corner in the cabinet in this instance, and having well ascertained that
!)! there was no dark passage even from the mediums to the curtains, a
j|j distance of at least fifteen feet, I confess I feel in a fix. This was of
j|i course the culmination, though not the end, of our tremendous sconce.
|) I The lamp being placed (and light lowered) at the former spot, away from
! | j our table, sheets of paper and a pencil were laid near the mediums. One
( sheet I plainly saw floating unsupported. The pencil was seen moving,
/ but not by me (being too far off), and a message produced, which we
111 read afterwards. To try the spirit’s sight in the dark (that is, our dark-
j(j ness), I hit upon a new plan. I drew a cross and a face on paper, and
j I placing a pair of scissors on it, extinguished the light. Cohnan’s
| (| “ chief ” promised to do my experiment, and soon we found, on re-
| > | lighting, that the figures were neatly cut out. This little piece of work
111 may now be seen on the table of the reading-room of the National
| (| Association. I consider it a marvellous test, as there was no prepara-
j tion between drawing and cutting, except putting out the light. Then
j(j I cut four equal pieces of paper, each being a letter of the name
nj “Joey,” mixed them together, and placed them (letters underneath) on
l|; the lid of the music-box. The “ chief” said he would do it, and after
I (| signal for light, we found the pieces arranged J-o-e-y inside the box. The
j)i fact occurred within about a quarter of a minute; the explanation may
i j require a quarter of a century. As for the total effect, or the sensation,
i (j on our whole organism, the appearance of the spirit Ernest in full
i) | splendour, at a distance from the medium, bore away the palm, although
j the mysterious forms floating high in the air were fascinating in the
j 11 extreme; but I almost hesitate where to give the first prize when I
i|j recollect how Samuel’s (Dr. Monck’s control) rough voice greeted me,
iji and his hands shook my head, out of sheer joy after my long absence.
| U The close resemblance of his voice here to that in our circle in Man-
Ill Chester, with all the peculiarities of Dr. Monck’s organ, when controlled,
| (| baffled me so much that it would have been a relief to me to see Dr.
11| Monck coming out of his concealment. In short, I feel bewildered by
| | the succession of tremendous facts, among which the, to me, unmis-
j(| takable signs of the presence of my own spirit guide was of course
Ij the most gratifying. At the close of our meeting we read the
lli letter addressed to me, which, although I believe it to be direct
72 THE SPIBITUALIST. Sept. 8. 1876.
spirit - writing, seems not to me direct communication, for I j)
discovered in it a mere composition of details previously j j j
passing, partly, at least, between mine and Mr. Eglinton’s lips. !)|
There is now before us a stupendous stock of facts! Careful selection i)!
will perhaps result in only a tiny small sediment of truly spiritual grains | j |
and pearls, but these are precious, and well worth soiling our hands for i)i
in the search among the enormous heaps of rubbish, and what we may i)j
call the perplexities of mediumship. Kj
This distinction, so ably advocated by the Editor of The Spiritualist j)i
will probably elevate his paper, after hot and fierce attacks, to the j?i
dignity of the true exponent of our cause, a kind of stage, on which K j
the scenes may be presented open to all points of view—the beau ideal j);
of a real mirror of truth! Cheistian Reimers. j) j
AT THE CAVE OF MYSTERY. ||j
A long and amusing article with the above title, in The j| j
World of last week, gives the following description of Dr. j/ j
Slade, Mr. Simmons, and their surroundings :— !c
I found myself in the society of a pleasant middle-aged jjj
gentleman and of a young lady attired in spotless white. j)|
The young lady was writing at a davenport in a corner, with K j
her back to the rest of the room; the gentleman was Rj
smoking a cigar in a low-seated reclining chair, and faced m
the door by which I entered. The former, after one critical j| j
glance over her shoulder, dismissed me silently as an un- jjj
satisfactory male object, and did not again deign to look jj j
round from her writing. The latter shook hands with me i( j
kindly, while I stammered out my wish to consult Dr. jjj
Slade, and in a few minutes we were smoking amicably jsj
together, like friends of long standing, with similar tastes jjj
and views. This gentleman was Mr. Simmons, the secre- jj|
tary or agent of Dr. Slade, who, if I may venture to say so, jc
is particularly fortunate in his man of business. There is jjj
nothing mystical about Mr. Simmons, who, by his tone, jjj
manner, and conversation, restored me to earth, dispelled j\|
my tremulous fears, put me at my ease, and made me feel jjj
that talking familiarly with your great grandmother or jjl
maiden aunt deceased is far less wonderful than that the jjj
Democratic party should have been so long out of office in jjj
the United States. j !
You have only to accept 11 the truths of Spiritualism” as jjj
too firmly established for argument, and to speak of them jjj
as you would of a leader in that morning’s Times, to find j j
Mr. Simmons an intelligent and pleasing companion, with a j j
sedate placidity of manner, and a judicially deliberate utter- jjj
ance, which are both fascinating and reassuring. He is R|
dressed in a complete suit of black, with a surtout-coat and jjj
whity-brown ankles, caused by a broad margin of sock be- ijj
coming visible between his trousers and stout highlows as he !|j
rocks himself back in the low chair. A black silk sailor’s j j
knot partly covers the shirt-wrinkles the open waistcoat jjj
would otherwise reveal. He has a broad, shrewd, pleasant jjj
face, and a stoutly-built English figure. His bushy brown jjj
beard and full whiskers are beginning to be tinged with grey, jjj
and his thick hair surmounts a broad forehead and a square jjj
and solid face. He looks the sort of stuff out of which j j
elders, deacons, and popular local preachers are made, not of jjj
the ascetic, but genial type, ready to make allowances for, jjj
while smiling at, the weaknesses of unbelief, and I could jjj
quite fancy him inspiring confidence in many a wavering jjj
soul. His air of solid repose, and the quiet confidence with jjj
which he brushed away, as it were, the human animalcula jjj
who doubted Spiritualism, or presumed to apply vulgar jjl
mundane tests to its marvels, impressed me highly, and jjj
seemed to gather strength from the every-day character of jjj
the apartment in which they were observed. For this ante- jjj
chamber to the Cave of Mystery had nothing to distinguish jji
it from any other well-furnished London lodging. A hand- jji
some well-proportioned room, with the light from three lofty jjj
windows streaming over its bright green carpet and new and jjj
highly-polished tables and chairs, it had just that lack of jjj
odds and ends and nicknacks which distinguish the temporary jjj
lodging from the permanent home, and was as little cal- jjj
culated to suggest mystic communion between this world jjj
and the next as a comic song or any other the most vulgar jjj
thing to sense. j j
Mr. Simmons was far above affectation or. pretence, and jjj
his very frankness had its effect. Asked as to the length of jj
Dr. Slade’s stay in London, he replied, “ Wal, this is a busi- jjj
ness tower, and we air under contract to be in St. Peters- Ri
burg in October. We have taken London city on our way;
it is a first visit, and so far people seem to have been pleased
with the manifestations. Yes, sir, the intelligences have been
under control and favourable, and investigators have been
satisfied.” Thus ended my first visit to the Cave of Mystery.
Other visitors, disgustingly prudent creatures, who had
made appointments beforehand, came in; and I left Mr.
Simmons booking ten o’clock the next morning in his
diary for my consultation with Dr. Slade.
A wholly different type of man this doctor. He and Mr.
Simmons were seated side by side in the room already de¬
scribed when I presented myself, and, shade of Jane Austen !
—I dubbed them Sense and Sensibility at the first glance.
The contrast between the two was complete. A highly-
wrought nervous temperament, a dreamy mystical face, re¬
gular features, eyes luminous with expression, a rather sad
smile, and a certain melancholy grace of manner were the
impressions conveyed by the tall lithe figure introduced to
me as Dr. Slade. He is the sort of man you would pick out
of a roomfull as an enthusiast. He at once invited me into
a back room on the same floor, in the centre of which stood
a small table, without a cloth or other covering. We were
now alone together, the door was closed, and, responding to
Dr. Slade’s invitation, I seated myself at one side of the
table, he also sitting at it sideways. The corner of the stable
was between us. The table was about five feet by four, had
four legs, no ledge below, or covering upon it. It would be
difficult to imagine anything simpler or more above-board, as
we both placed our palms upon it.
Dr. Slade’s long, white, nervous fingers had scarcely
touched mine when a violent knocking began. The doctor
became visibly agitated. There is no mistaking the signs of
genuine agitation; and I may say at once that Dr. Slade’s
own transitions of expression, his excitement, and subse¬
quent exhaustion impressed me as strongly as anything
which happened during this curious interview. “You are a
medium, sir ! ” he gasped; and I, feeling like the man who
had talked prose all his life without knowing it, smiled
feebly, as if to say, “ So you’ve found me out.” The
knocking immediately became more vehement, and the
doctor declared the spirit (of his wife) wished to pronounce
upon my claims to mediumship. There were a couple of
ordinary-looking school slates lying near, and taking one of
these, and placing on it loosely a tiny piece of common slate-
pencil, bitten from a stick, and about the size of a grain of
wheat, the doctor held the slate under the table with one
hand, saying at the same time, “ Is this gentleman a
medium, Allie ? ” The words were hardly spoken before
there was a sound of writing, followed by two or three
vigorous taps. The slate was looked at, and “ He is not,”
in a flowing hand, was written on it.
Then came more and violent knockings at the table, a
chair at the farthest corner from Dr. Slade was lifted rapidly
in the air, and then hurled to the ground without visible
agency. My coat and trousers were plucked violently, and I
was pinched and patted, all with great rapidity, and in
quarters which it seemed absolutely impossible Dr. Slade
could reach. A hand appeared and disappeared fitfully, but
with unmistakable reality, close to me; and when the slate
was produced with a similar crumb of pencil, once on it when
it was held under the table, and once under it when it was
placed on the table, messages of various kinds were inscribed
rapidly, and in different handwritings.
I explained to Dr. Slade that, while I was both puzzled
and impressed by what I saw and felt—for I was being
pinched and patted and had “ spirit hands ” flickering
before me at intervals all this time—it would be, I submitted,
very much more satisfactory if I could receive a communica¬
tion of an individual and unmistakably personal character.
Dr. Slade agreed with me, but explained that at a first visit
the phenomena were as a rule of a general character, as if
to place their reality and the absence of all trickery beyond
dispute ; and then at a subsequent visit, when “ the ground
had been thus cleared,” there were frequently communica¬
tions of the direct character I craved.
I had not and have not a glimmering of an idea how the
effects described had been produced, and I came away inex¬
pressibly puzzled and perplexed. I had seen so much that
my spirit craved for more.
Sept. 8, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With Well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spintuaiism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERS ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
Which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. IL, by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of ali the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by tho Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Superaaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracies and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New-; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit, i2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
thnt-there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and littie understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that ail spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during Gie whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Sd.; cheap edition.
7s, 0d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits througb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions. In the presence of the
author and other Witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. ‘
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. ed.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OITR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three narts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. BourchierWrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Oil.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Sd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6<L
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III, „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-reourring Questions from the Peop.e
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence >
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
I. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the. World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale’Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by. the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . ; . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . 3 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , 16
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M,
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didler, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is. _
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D< Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. 11. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. ••8/1876,
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED . BY THE
■ MUSIC AND ART ; ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough. Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tikel as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal, Solo. Price 6s. •
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
' FETE DE JUPITEE. Grand March, 4s.'
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN. OF AEO; French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, .4s.
Also A.SEEIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin-
; cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Heir
■ Majesty the Queen and 'H.E.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 6s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Ohidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Eose, 4s. - '"Tre-' !
A Series of. 12.Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS ! PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION. L
,BT MISS TREHEENE (MES. WELDON). — The Brook,
words by. Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor
Hugo (English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
Heather, Danish Melody, Kjerulf, 4s.
ALFEED EAWLINGS—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen,. 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN UEICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s. Song, 4s. There
is no.Flock (Eesignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFEED CELLIEE.—Flower Gh’l: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s ;Nursery Ehyme Quadrilles, with Pertrait of Mrs.
Weldon,1 arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Bhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s. j
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers,'7s.'6d.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM. ’
The . Seeond Volume of The Identity of Primitive
■ Christianity: and Modem Spiritualism^ ,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
. I.—Spirit Writing. , , .
II.—Levitation and.Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire."
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
. V.—Clairaudience..'. . -
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
. VII.—rTrance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost,
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
■ X.—Prayer. .
. XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death. ’ - \
XIII. —The'-Spirit-Wt>?ldv .
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just be«n issued in America-, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LE MESSAGrER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears oh .the Ist and 15th of every month.- Pries
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Eue Florimont, Libge.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper- Branch Office; *
REFLEXIONEN aus DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken,’ and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society, of Spiritual Inquirers. Price. Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt,-23,' Erzherzog Alexahdergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
. devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandra Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Brancn Office.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. • H. Harrison, Sprituatist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, 'Great Eussell-street,' Bloomsbury,
London, W.C, •
[For purposes Of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing'business; are hot in any way: connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d.,: cloth.
7 >OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
JL ■ LIZZIE DOTEN.’ Tenth edition. _ This volume opens
' with the Wonderful experiences - of the' author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as A trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religipus and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
pended heB influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
' the nnstrumentalitv,of .the press. This volume contains the
; gems of.;. "the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
• public audlehceS, under1 direct spirit influence. Several of
t them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical'’Introduetion gives; a
' succinct aecount-of the-means by which these poems are given
to the world. The. peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer-
, taijqty and . significance of this higher phase of spiritual com-
( m.unjon ispourtrajed.. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in.'favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
ttebdencies,.—Boston, U.SColby and Eich. London Spirit-
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST,* of Boston, Mass.,
)0 U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time’the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
: and . the laws of the- Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence. ... • /
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices,’18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
' shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
o fsubscription, in advance; 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
.London, "VYO. ’ •' ^ *
Price 5s,' •
IRELAND: HR OF THE CHALDEES.
London ': Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms. •
, “ Irishmen ■ ought to read this work and be' proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer .'’—Christian' Wcifld.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers^- and for those who maybe inclined to take the work
in hand, we'may briefly state that the line., of argument pur¬
sued is intehdfed to‘show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amountof corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad.ta test.”—Jloc/e.
Published at 7s. 6d. Eeduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member .of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin,> Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
‘Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvojance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Eugby, that he
t>aid:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Eivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione', via
Bogino, No. 23.
T3 EYUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
jL\l logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Eue do Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c: By Allan Kardeo.: Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39,' Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. . Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate descriptiwi of Manifestations
■ recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Golby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the - communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question oi a. priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to: have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
.rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to Drove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
TiHE RELIGIO - PHILOSOPHICAL
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Nowin its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S.-Jones, Editor, Chicago,
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—-A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations . recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
■observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spnritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive.proof,
aside from historical evidence; of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence■ on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to. many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
Strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels; and ..that the strongest of. all proof going to
. substantiate’ the.Gospei narratives are found in the phenomena
Df Spiritualism'. Cloth, 7s.6(1.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MRS. BURKE’S'
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting. London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the, spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Managhr—Mrs. A. 6. Burke.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of' pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. ; Near to
Rail and Omnibus. 0. P., 102, Olarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
Established in 1869.
p.HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
AJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of.
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street, <
- London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedtetday.,
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor. ; ' , ,
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’’ will; be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom'on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
;    -£   ■ ■ ' ■ , . ■ LL-  
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwbod’s Rents; High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew' above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.G,
