AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGHSTEEED FOB TBANS2OSSI0N ABROAD.]
No. 134.—(Yol. VI.—No. 12.) LONDON: MARCH 19j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(STontents.
Speculations relating to New Facts in Spiritualism ...   133
Electrical Tests Popularly Explained    135
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries     137
Correspondence:—Remarkable Evidence of Spirit Identity, 137; Science
and Religion—the New Psychological Society, 138; Mrs. Collier’s
Mediumship—-A Seance with Children—"Whence came the Bon¬
bons? 139; Aid to Mediums, 139; the Development of Medium-
ship, 139; a Seance with Miss Showers, 140; Guaranteeing Genuine
Mediumship, 140: English Translations of Allan Kardec’s Works,
141; a Seance in Peterborough, 141; Spiritualism and Theological
Dogmas ... ... ... is.   141
Private Seances:—Seances with Mrs. E. Corner (Florence Cook), Miss
Showers and Mrs. Bassett, Non-professional Mediums  143
Paragraphs:—Is it so? 136; Experiments in Mesmerism, 143; Birth,
144; Mr. Morse in America, 144 ; Spiritualism in Dalston  144
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton,
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Eon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . 'The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to abetter understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted,, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with, any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritnalism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiuding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
nd Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing, to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold a
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday'of each month, until Jurther notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OP MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.80, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to "be
purchased at the" doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes. 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established. 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British; Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lifcge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JL\/ fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 19, 1875,
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John. Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest'
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W-
mWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
JL and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and preeious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
A TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. R. Cogman’s work
for Spiritualism at the East End, will be held at 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile End-road, E., on Sunday, March 21st, at five o’clock. Tickets
One Shilling each.
ME. WALLACE’S SOIREE.I
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Alsernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
\ NIMAL MAGNETISM AND MAGNETIC LUCID
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world," and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Tickets for mr. Wallace’s soiree, price
Is. 6d. each, may be obtained of Mrs. Parkes, 6, Gaynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary to the Halston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.;
Mr. Towns, 1, Albert-terrace, Barnsbury-road, N.-; Mrs. Everitt, Lilian-
villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.; Mrs. Bullock, 19, Church-street,
Islington, N.; Mr. R. Cogman, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, E.; Mr.
Hunt, Secretary to the Marylebone Spiritual Association, 47, East-street,
Baker-street,‘W. ; Mr. Barber, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington, N.; or of the
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. Bielfeld, 208, Euston-road, or of the Secretaries,
Mr. J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, and Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road,
Camden Town, N.W. The soiree will be held on the 1st of April, at the
Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
"OISHOP AUCKLAND.—A SOIREE WILL BE HELD
B y on GOOD FRIDAY, in the Large Room, Mechanics’ Institute. - Tea
on the tables at 5 o’clock, p.m. After tea there will be a Musical Enter¬
tainment given by. Spiritualists belonging to the town. The Committee
hope that the Spiritualists and their friends will assemble in good num¬
bers, and assist to make the affair as successful as possible. Several
Spirit-photos and other interesting objects will be on view. Tickets for tea
and entertainment Is each.—Jos. Gibson,' Hon. Sec.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s, 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. 'An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
\ USTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualits
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—In¬
structive LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 and 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
OFFICES:—42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
A Single Premium covering the whole Life. Profits Divided
AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
Agent—Mr. THOMAS BLYTON, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, London,
E., of whom Prospectuses and all information can be obtained on applica¬
tion.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Counr
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2Ad. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
ejAs
jl off ifp J’rojrm oI| i|e aitij of ^ptijtimtKom,
VOLUME glX. ^Uf^BER TWELVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 19th, 1S7S.
Cjxe Spiniwalist
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday -morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions;—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen,-11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The SpintuaMsf" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist nfaybe ordered through the following dealers inSpiritua
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton,—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Gary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of aPo t Office Order for sums
loss than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
Jpl E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPECULATIONS RELATING TO NEW FACTS IN
SPIRITUALISM.
During the past few weeks some new facts of con¬
siderable interest in connection with Spiritualism have
been recorded in these pages, and have been attested by
careful and reliable observers. The letter of Mr. Des¬
mond Fitz-Gerald, the electrician, is of special value,
from the light which it may possibly throw upon a wide
range of physical manifestations. He narrated how a
negro, who was a powerful mesmerist, made passes over
1 a woman on a public platform at a meeting at Black-
heath, and after having freed her spirit from her body,
he “ willed’’ that she should go to her own home and
touch one of the persons then in her kitchen. A depu¬
tation then went from the meeting to the house, and
found the people there in a state of consternation,
because one of them had been “ touched by a ghost.”
Now, in this case, we have first of all an entranced
medium; secondly, we have the spirit of that medium
freed from, the body and endowed with the power of
producing physical effects, for it gave a touch which
was felt; had the person touched been able to see the
spirit, the latter would have had the features of the
individual whose body was in a state of trance in another
place. Here then, so far as external appearances are
concerned, is the same condition of things which ob¬
tains at some spirit circles at which physical manifesta¬
tions 1 are witnessed; in the latter case there is the
sleeping medium, and something with the features of
that medium carrying musical instruments about the
room, or making itself visible as a materialised spirit.
But in this latter example the apparition claims to be
the spirit.of a dead person; in Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s case
it was beyond all doubt the spirit of the medium. The
assumption is, that at spirit circles the medium is mes¬
merised by a spirit out of the body, that the spirit ob¬
tains control of the medium’s organism and of material
conditions, then produces physical objects. In Mr.
Fitz-Gerald’s case a spirit in the>body was the moving
power in the whole. matter; that spirit was a negro,
and both the body and the spirit of the medium were
acting in a slavish manner under his control, a very
serious example of the enormous power of mesmerism.
The spirits assumed to produce materialisation mani¬
festations scarcely ever give any religious or moral
teachings worth recording ; in like manner if the negro
who was the prime actor in the Blackheath experi¬
ments, had attempted to teach anything to elevate
mankind through the medium he was controlling, he
would probably have failed; in fact, it would have
been the duty of the listeners to educate him, so here
again the parallel between the two cases holds good.
The question should be solved whether the same
effects produced in the experiments at Blackheath could
also be effected in the absence of the negro, that is to
say, have any mesmeric sensitives the power of falling
into a mesmeric sleep, of then quitting their bodies and
producing manifestations in accordance with their own
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1875.
will? Our experience, after attending many hundreds
of seances, leads us to believe that whatever work it
may do, the spirit of the medium is not the driving
power in the great majority of physical manifestations ;
among a few of the lower mediums, who unhappily are
not surrounded by good influences, there has sometimes
been a depth of untruthfulness and iniquity not natural to
the mediums in the normal state. The wickedness has
not been of that kind which is assumed to belong to
the devil; it has been more that of a savage or of a
child, for savages and children can be very cruel to
each other at one moment and overflowing with generosity
the next; so two mediums may be bursting with
jealousy and making desperate attempts to ruin each
other by the invention and circulation of false scandals
at one moment, yet may be seen giving the last
shilling they possess to a beggar in the street, the
next.
In the Blackheath experiments, although the body of
the medium was in one place and the double of the
medium in another, the same consciousness was govern¬
ing the acts of both ; that is to say, the medium willed
that her spirit-hand should touch the person at the dis¬
tant place; she also willed that at the same time her
mouth should tell the operator what her spirit was
doing; thus one individuality was governing the acts
of both bodies at the same time, and this individuality
was, in its turn, controlled by a strong-willed negro.
Is it the same at materialisation seances'! Does the
spirit of the medium cause the mouth of his entranced
body to talk to the sitters, and does it at the same time
produce the physical effects seen at the seance ! One
piece of evidence in favour of this hypothesis is, that
the materialised spirits never teach anything above the
mental capacity of the medium. Or is the medium
subject to the will of disembodied spirits, and looking
on helplessly while they are producing their manifesta¬
tions by means of the duplicate bodies ? Here, again,
those who have had most experience can trace strong
evidence of the presence of an individuality not that of
the medium. When two or three spirits profess to
come through the same medium, and are watched
through a prolonged range of seances, they are found to
possess mental characteristics which differ from each
other, and which never vary from first to last. And
these characteristics are shown in such minute details,
as at last to bring home the conviction of the observer
that different individualities are at work.
If the medium is thus subject to the will of spirits,
it raises the question whether, in many cases, the
medium may not have left his or her body years ago,
so that the organism is left under the control of other
individualities, although, to the superficial observer, it
appears to be the same person. Dr. Newton’s spirits
told us that he had thus left his body, and had years
ago tasted all that he would ever know of death; they
said that he was but one of a band of spirits using his
bodily organism for benevolent purposes, out of love to
mankind.
How does the spirit of the medium leave the body ?
In the Blackheath experiments it left the body in¬
visibly, and had the power of penetrating solid objects,
for it found its way to a distant room, in a distant
house. At seances, spirit bands are often formed
in the partial darkness under the table, where they
occasionally write messages upon paper or are thrust
out so that they can be seen, and these hands are
usually the duplicates in form of the hands of the
medium. It is possible that the invisible hand is
passed through the table, that it then has some pro¬
perties added to it so that it becomes what is known as
materialised. Possibly matter may have two or three
hundred properties, only five or six of which are known
to science. The materialised hand, as is now well
known, possesses all the properties of the ordinary
human hand; it has bones, and skin, and nails, and
warm circulating blood. But what is the condition
of the hand where it ceases to be materialised, say,
near the wrist, and what becomes of the blood running
in the direction of the body at the said wrist ? One
would naturally infer that it runs invisibly to the body
of the medium, and that the multitude of forces at play
in the human arm are at work between that hand and
the medium, although some few of the essentials neces¬
sary to make the effects of the forces visible in the form
we call matter, are missing. Hiss Cook tells us that if
at a dark seance, while a spirit hand is carrying a
musical instrument, any one passes his hands down¬
wards between her and the hand, she feels a shock,
but the other person feels nothing. Hr. Herne has
told us that if, after a dark seance has begun, somebody
passes a, walking-stick over his head, he feels as if
something has been done to interrupt the manifesta¬
tions. Thus it would seem that there is a vital link
between mediums and spirit hands, even while that
connection is invisible. Captain James recently sat by
the side of Hr. Bastian while the spirits were mate¬
rialising hands and thrusting them out; he says that
the hands ended quite sharply at or about the wrist,
behind which they appeared to be supported by nothing.
Last Sunday week some materialised hands were formed
through the mediumship of Hiss Showers as she sat in
a dimly-lighted cabinet; she said that she could see
the hands as far as the knuckles, where they ended
abruptly. Hiss Cook informs us that recently, while both
her hands were held by a lady in the dark, a material¬
ised hand was given to a gentleman present, who asked
permission to trace the arm belonging to the hand to
its source; he did so, and found that it ended at Hiss
Cook’s shoulder, upon which he asked the lady (who
was his own wife) if she were sure that she had both
Hiss Cook’s hands, and she replied that there was no
doubt upon that point. Legs have been duplicated in
the same way. Recently a lady of high literary note
was sitting by the side of Hiss Showers at the supper
table, while raps and other manifestations were going
on, and the lady put her hand below the table in order
to be grasped by some of the materialised hands which
were there, and she declared that beyond all doubt a ma¬
terialised leg came between herself and Hiss Showers.
The same kind of phenomenon occurred recently at
Bristol, and caused much discomfiture to some Spirit¬
ualists there, in consequence of their being inexperi¬
enced in matters relating to advanced manifestations.
Dr. Honck was sitting quietly while tremendous raps
were coming from the table, for which noises the critics
present could not account. The table was of soft
wood, .and on being examined next day was found
indented with the toe of a boot, also with some mud
corresponding with that on Dr. Honck’s shoes. This
suspicious result made him give another seance in a
stranger’s house, at which he sat without boots on, and
with his feet tied to the legs of the chair; he also stood
upright during a part of the seance, yet the raps came
with great violence;' only disbelievers sat near the
table, the Spiritualists present occupying chairs behind
March 19, 1875.
them; at the close of the seance they all signed, a
document to the effect that they could not account for
the phenomena witnessed. Recently, while opposite a
lady medium at supper at a large table, Mr. Harrison
put one hand below the table, and asked the spirits if
they could touch him; instantly something which felt
like the toe of a hoot was put into his hand, although
the medium was unconcernedly eating her supper, and
had that been her own foot, the leg belonging thereto
must have been twenty inches more than its proper
length.
This brings us to another point in connection with
these manifestations, namely, that if invisible living
portions of the human organism are busy between
mediums and materialised hands or feet, the invisible
portions seem to be endowed with more elasticity than
those which are seen by the eye. For instance, musical
instruments at dark seances sometimes fly a long way
from the medium. This elasticity, this pushing asunder
of material atoms, seems also to be possible to a lesser
degree in the fully materialised organism, and may
serve to account for the occasional elongation and con¬
traction of the bodies of Mr. Home and other mediums,
as attested by Lord Lindsay, Mr. Jencken, and others.
The power by which) these duplications are effected
seems to have something of the nature of a single force,
and not of a complicated mixture of vital actions,
because not merely are portions of the human body
duplicated, but in some instances, the clothes also, as
in the example of Dr. Monck’s boots, and of the coat-
sleeves of the Davenport Brothers, which have some¬
times been seen over the wrists of materialised spirit
hands while the hands of the mediums were secured.
In the case also of the hand and arm which appeared
at the seance with Mrs. Fay in the house of Mr.
Crookes, the arm came out in a blue sleeve, and Mrs.
Fay was dressed in blue.
What are the properties of the invisible portions of
the organism between spirit hands or heads, and the
medium ? Can the spirit hands while yet invisible lift
a chair? If so a clue is obtained as to the modus
operandi of moving solid objects at a distance from the
medium. This is one of those points which may pos¬
sibly be readily solved now that attention is called to
it. The law of the conservation of energy points out
that power cannot be gained in one direction without
being lost in another, consequently the power which
moves a visible or invisible spirit hand must come from
somewhere, and on the hypothesis laid down in this
sketch the power comes from the medium. On the
withdrawal of much vital forcie from the whole or a par¬
ticular part of the body of the medium, it would seem
that of necessity that there must be a loss of heat to
that part; such is actually the case in practice, for at
all, or nearly all, materialisation seances for full forms,
the tnedium becomes cold shortly before the manifesta¬
tions begin. This loss of heat ought to be measured,
and it could easily be done—as we pointed out a fort¬
night ago—by means of the thermo-electrical apparatus
invented by Mr. Siemens, on the principle of his pyro¬
meter, but modified so as to be adapted for the indica¬
tion of moderate temperatures. Yitality is drawn
somewhat freely from the hands of the medium at the
beginning of a form seance, and we have reason to
suppose that not a little is abstracted from the spine;
mediums often complain of coldness in the back, and
of their backs beginning to ache towards the close of
a seance. If it be found that at the beginning of a
135
powerful seance the temperature of the whole body of
the medium is lowered, but more especially the tempera¬
ture of the hands and of the back, it is evident that a
phenomenon is presented which no impostor can imi¬
tate. Even those spirits who are not truthful, and are
not endowed with good qualities, and who, to save
themselves trouble, have possibly sometimes shown
their mediums as spirits, must in playing such tricks
draw vitality from the medium before they can gain
sufficient power to dress them up, and in drawing that
power may lower the temperature of the hands of the
instrument they use. Consequently, by making careful
observations of temperature, it is possible, as we have
already pointed out, to take the responsibility of bad
acts of this kind off the shoulders of the unfortunate
medium, and to fix it upon the spirits. Spirit hands
are sometimes formed without perceptibly reducing the
temperature of the hands of the medium, perhaps
because the vitality which animates the spirit hand
may be drawn from the whole body of the medium and
not from the bodily hand only; but when a full form
is materialised, the drain upon vital energy is so great
that the body of the medium perhaps invariably grows
cold, and the materialised form not being able to ab¬
stract all the vitality from the body of the medium is
cold also, but slowly grows warmer as the seance pro¬
gresses, ( The spirits also draw more or less vitality
from some of the sitters at seances for physical mani¬
festations, so any experiments to ascertain temperatures
ought to be made when very few sitters are present, so
that the effects upon the medium may be more distinct,
consequently more readily tabulated.
A good physiologist might possibly detect changes in
the bodies of mediums during seances, which changes no
impostor could produce artificially.
ELECTRICAL TESTS POPULARLY EXPLAINED.
Now that the hands and sometimes the bodies of
mediums are -occasionally duplicated while the mediums
are in dark cabinets by themselves, Mr. Yarley’s
electrical test to prove that the hands of the sensitives
are not presented as materialised spirit hands is rising
into great importance, the more especially because
tricky spirits can get mediums out of any kind of ma¬
terial bonds with sealed knots, and can put them back
as they were at first, with all the knots and seals
intact. The plan was, therefore, devised of making
the medium form part of an electrical circuit, so that
if his hands or arms should become detached, even for
half a second, from the wires, the circumstance would
instantly be revealed by the indicating instruments
outside the cabinet. Many Spiritualists not versed in
electrical subjects have desired that the nature of the
galvanometer test should be explained to the public in
a more simple manner than has been done in these
pages, and that reasonable desire it is the object of the
present article to gratify.
The principles involved can be more easily explained
by calling attention to the common instead of the re¬
flecting galvanometer. In accompanying cut, Z is a
wire passing up one side of a magnetic needle, over it at
K, and down again on the other side to X. The needle
can turn freely on its axis M, and supposing the part
of the apparatus already described to be enclosed in a
box to protect it from injury, a light needle R R is
attached to the same axis, but outside the box, so as to
indicate the motions of the heavier though smaller
THE SPIEITUALIST.
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1875.
needle within. The lower half P of the inner needle
being heavier than the upper part, the needle retains
a vertical position so long as it is not acted upon by
electricity. The light needle B, R, of which a front
view is shown at A E, will thus hang vertically in the
direction H E so long as no electricity passes.
When a motion-
less magnetic
needle is free to
turn in any direc¬
tion, and an elec¬
trical current is
sent along a wire
placed parallel to
but not touching
the needle, the
needle has a ten¬
dency to place it¬
self at a right angle to the wire, and the amount of the
deflection thus produced is greater with a strong than
with a weak current.
For instance, let a current of electricity he passed
along a wire which is fixed in the vertical direction
H F, the needle will swing round notwithstanding
that it is heaviest at the lower end E, and will take up
the position say of A E, or N T.
An electrical current is sent along the wire when
desired, by connecting the ends of the wire Z X with
opposite poles of a galvanic battery. ‘ Or a medium may
take hold of a brass handle soldered to the wire at X,
by one hand, and with the other hand hold another
handle connected by wire with one of the poles of the
battery, so that the electrical current must pass through
his body, whicji thus fills the gap between the handles
in the metallic circuit.
But as his body is a worse conductor of electricity
than a thick copper wire, the current passes less freely,
. so the needle instead of being deflected, say to X T by
the current, will be thrown from its normal vertical
position no further say than A E, where it will rest,
trembling slightly as the medium clasps the handles
with more or less firmness.
Let the medium unclasp one or both of the handles
for the fraction of a second, the electrical circuit will be
broken, and the needle outside the cabinet fall back to
the position H F.
Let him with his mouth and in the dark connect the
two handles with a metallic wire (abstracted from his
coat-tail pocket by sleight of teeth), so that he can
afterwards remove his hands from the handles without
breaking the electrical circuit, the wire being a better
conductor than his body the electrical current will then
flow more freely, and the needle take up the position
X T, thus revealing to the spectators outside what has
been done.
Further, suppose the medium to be an accomplished
electrician, and to try some plan of substituting a re¬
sistance approaching that of his own body, the needle
would be violently agitated while the fixing operations
were going on, as was the case recently at the house of
Mr. Crookes, when two Fellows of the Royal Society
tried this scheme.
A reflecting galvanometer is a much more sensitive
instrument than the common galvanometer. The mag¬
netic needle is made of a little piece of watch-spring,
weighing sometimes but three or four grains; it can
swing horizontally while suspended by its centre at the
end of a single cocoon fibre; the normal position of the
needle is in the direction of the magnetic north and
south, for j ust the same reason that the mariner’s com¬
pass takes up that position.
As it would be impossible to read ofl: the slight
motions, resembling tremblings, of this little needle
with comfort, a small mirror of silvered mica about the
size of a threepenny piece, is fixed to it with a fragment
of wax. A ray of light is thrown upon this mirror,
which reflects it as a spot upon a straight ivory scale,
say eighteen inches long, and two feet from the mirror,
so that every time the mirror moves but a little, the
reflected tongue of light moves, say an inch or two on
the scale, so that the amount of its oscillations can be
read off with ease. Sir William Thomson invented
this instrument, and it is so sensitive that an electrical
current too feeble to give a shock, or a spark, or to be
tasted when sent through the tongue, can be passed
through 3,000 miles of Atlantic cable, and its arrival
at the other end be indicated by the aid of the reflect¬
ing galvanometer. N A weaker current may be employed
in this experiment than that generated by placing a
penny on the top of the tongue, and a piece of zinc
below it, with their outer edges touching; the feeble
current thus produced gives a peculiar taste in the
mouth, for the human tongue is one of the most sensi¬
tive of electrical recording instruments.
Before closing this notice it is a matter of duty to call
public attention to the good which Mr. William Crookes
has done to the cause of Spiritualism. Xone but
scientific men need of necessity mix up their Spirit¬
ualism with their daily business ; a man on the Stock
Exchange may proclaim his Spiritualism everywhere
during the evening, although he would be ruined did he
force it upon his clients and competitors in business
hours. But as the professional character and qualifica¬
tions of a scientific man consist in his being recognised as
an accurate observer of the facts of nature, it follows that
in attesting the improbable truths of Spiritualism, he
introduces the unpopular subject into the business of
his daily life, so thereby runs greater risk of loss of
reputation among his brethren, and avows his convic¬
tions under heavier penalties than do others. Mr.
Crookes has not been afraid to avow the most un¬
believable facts of Spiritualism when they have oc¬
curred under those test conditions which physicists have
a right within certain limits to demand, and if he has
not proclaimed himself a Spiritualist, are not many of
the most experienced of our body constrained to admit
that the “ spirit identity” part of the subject is as yet
the weakest of the whole, although facts are accumu¬
lating to substantiate this branch of Spiritualism as
completely as all the rest ?
Me. D. Cameeox, of Lochiel, dined with the Queen last
Saturday. Sir William Dunbar, Bart., attended the Queen’s
levee last week. The Comtesse Eleonore de Sayn-Wittgenstein
visited the Queen at Windsor Castle last Monday, and returned
to London on Tuesday with the Prince and Princess of Wales,
and King Francis and Queen Marie of Naples. The Countess
of Caithness and Count de Medina Pomar are still in Italy.
Is it so ?—The Hampshire Independent says—“ The
more I hear of Spiritualism, the more I am inclined to think
it a delusion on the part of the many, and an imposture on
the part of the few. Nothing could be less conclusive than
the evidence which is forthcoming for most of the alleged
manifestations. .Take any number of The Spiritualist, for
instance, and you will read how such and such a medium was
put into a trance, and while in that state declared that she
saw so and so, who told her this and that, which is simply no
evidence at all.”
March 19, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
137
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Physical manifestations seem to be gaining ground
on the Continent. The experiments of the Baroness
Yon Yay in Austria, with Mme. Pucher in the cabinet,
as already relatedin this journal, are being continued
with success ; and in Paris, at the circles of Mr. Fir¬
man, the ordinary movements of objects, playing of
various musical instruments, hand-touching and similar
well-known phenomena, are being produced with regu¬
larly increasing power. A little Indian spirit is also
said to appear sometimes in the light through Mr.
Firman’s medium ship. A Russian gentleman, M. N.
de LvofF, obtained from the Comte de Bullet the assur¬
ance that he had, after sitting daily with Mr. Firman
for several months, seen in a lighted room, the complete
materialised forms of five members of his own family,
who came and pressed his hand, talked familiarly of
their private affairs, and presented him with bouquets
of flowers materialised by them. M. de Lvoff deter¬
mined to follow the example of the Count, and after
sitting fifteen consecutive days with Mr. Firman, had
the pleasure of seeing the complete form of his sister,
whom he was permitted to kiss on the hands and cheek,
while “ she pressed her cheek against mine, and tried
to calm my joy, which amounted almost to pain.’’
It would be of paramount interest and a gain to the
science of Spiritualism if some reliable observer who
has witnessed the materialisations in London through
Miss Cook and Mr. Williams, could observe and report
with equal accuracy on the points of similarity and
difference in these alleged full-form manifestations in
the French capital.
The second edition of the Baron du Potet’s book,
Magie, is about to appear, with a preface in which he
tells men of science that they are welcome to matter as
their monopoly, since he has perceived in nature that
agency which they ignore, that secret law which alone
can prove to men of sense the immortality of the soul
and the existence of a God. The German translation
of Mr. A. R. Wallace’s Defence of Modern Spiritualism,
published in the Fortnightly Review, is appearing in
monthly parts in the Psychic Studies. A correspondence
in the same journal between Mr. Christian Reimers, of
Manchester, and Mr. G. C. Wittig, on the subject of
the ring-test so frequently given in our spiritual circles,
but which the Leipsic writer thinks is too much to
believe, is illustrative of the lack, in Germany, of those
ordinary phenomena with which investigators in Eng¬
land are becoming so familiar. It would surely be
worth the while of such mediums as Messrs. Bastian
and Taylor to make a lengthened tour on the Continent,
so as to bring our hard-working German brethren up
to a level with ourselves in the matter of phenomena.
They would then be able to give us invaluable aid in
working out the problem of Spiritualism from the
mental side, the leaning of the German school of
thought being towards the philosophic, as ours is
towards the practical, solution of things. The second
part of the Report of the Dialectical Society, translated
by Mr. G. C. Wittig, has just been published by M.
Alexander Aksakof.
The Annali dello Spiritismo in Italia, edited by
Niceforo Filalete, and published at Turin, takes as its
motto the dictum of Arago: “ He who asserts that,
outside of the domain of pure mathematics, anything
i s impossible, lacks a knowledge of the first principles
of logic.” The Annali is a thoughtfully-written
journal, from which we hope to give some extracts in a
future article.
ararrapimTience.
[Gnat freedom is given to cor respondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its reader s.l
REMARKABLE EVIDENCE 0E SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sib,—In The Spiritualist of Dec. 11th, 1874, you printed a
letter from me, a letter the main portion of which, in view of
the information elicited by it, I will ask you to reproduce:—
In the month of August last, I was staying with Dr. Speer, at Shanklin,
Isle of Wight. We had a number of sittings, and at one of them a spirit
communicated, who gave his name as Abraham Florentine. He said that
he had been concerned in the war of 1812, and that he had lately entered
spirit-life at Brooklyn, U. S. A., on August Sth, at the age of eighty-three
years, one month, and seventeen days. We had some difficulty at first in
making out whether the month and days referred to the age or to the
length of his illness, but he returned on the following evening, and cleared
up the difficulty.
The manner in which the communication was made was most singular.
We were seated, three in number, round a heavy loo-table, which two
persons would'move with difficulty. Instead of raps, to which we are ac¬
customed, the table commenced to tilt. So eager was the communicating
spirit, that the table rose some seconds before the required letter was
arrived at. In order to mark T it would rise, quivering with excitement,
in a manner perfectly indescribable, about K, and then descend at T with a
thump that shook the floor. This was repeated until the whole message
was complete, but so eager was the spirit, and so impetuous in his replies,
that he bewildered Dr. and Mrs. Speer completely (I was in deep trance)
and caused the process to be prolonged over the whole sitting. If I may
venture On a guess, I should say that Abraham Florentine was a good
soldier, a fighting man not nice to meet, and that he retains enough of his
old impetuosity, to rejoice at his liberation from the body which (if I may
guess again) had become a burden to him through a painful illness.
Will the American papers copy and enable me to verify my facts and
guesses ? M. A. (Oxon.)
Mr. Epes Sargent, to whom I privately communicated the
facts of the case, was kind enough to insert for me a para¬
graph in the Banner of Light of Dec. 12th, 1874, embodying
the same [inquiry. The result was to elicit what the Banner
calls “ one of the most singular and well attested evidences of
spirit return which it has been our good fortune to chronicle
during a long experience.” The matter may best be stated in
the words used by the writer in the Banner of Light of Feb.
18th, 1875. It will be observed that a misconception as to the
meaning of the words “ a month and seventeen days” occurs
at first, but this is subsequently cleared up, though, according
to the widow’s account, the age should have been 88 years, 1
month, 27 days. This, however, does not affect the case of
identity.
The original inquiry in the Banner was this, and the result
is quoted direct from that newspaper:—
“ At a seance in England lately a spirit-communication was
received by means of the tilting of a heavy table. The whole
table seemed alive, and as though it were being disintegrated
in the very fibres of the wood. The gist of the communication
was that the spirit was one Abraham Florentine, who died at
Brooklyn, N. Y., August Sth, 1874. He said he was in the war
of 1812, and then, after an interval, added, ‘a month and
seventeen days.’ Can any of our Brooklyn friends inform us
whether they ever heard of Abraham Florentine ?
“ No sooner had that issue of our paper found its way to the
public, than we received by due course of mail the following
reply, which speaks for itself:—•
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light."
In the Banner to-day received here, is a paragraph concerning a spirit
who manifested through the medium 'of a dining-table at some place in
England, and gave the name of Abraham Florentine, a soldier m the war
of 1812. You make inquiry whether any one ever heard of Abraham
Florentine. I cannot specifically answer that question, but having been
engaged some fourteen years since in auditing the claims of the soldiers of
1812, in the State of New York, I am yet in possession of the records of all
such who made claims for service in that war. In those records appears
the name of Abraham Florentine, of Brooklyn, N.Y., and a full record of
his service can be obtained in the office of the AdjutantrOeneral of the
State of New York, in claim No. 11,518, war of 1812. I think, however,
that he there claimed for a longer term of service than that he gave in
England, his allowance being for 58 dollars. Let your light shine.
Wilson Millar, Claim Agent.
Washington, D.O., Deo. 13th, 1874.
“Pursuant to the advice of our legal correspondent we
addressed a letter to the Adjutant-General S. N. Y., asking for
the facts, without, however, giving any reason for our request,
and received the following courteous reply
General Head-quarters, State of New York, Adjufant-General’s Office,
Albany, Jan. 25th, 1875.
Colby and Rich, No. 9, Montqomery-place, Boston.—Sirs,—In
eply to your communication dated January 22, I have to furnish you the
138  THE SPIRITUALIST.   March 19, 1875.
following information from the records of this office: Abraham 'Florentine,
private in Captain Nicole’s Company, 1st Regiment New York Militia, Col-
JDodge, volunteered at New York, on or about the 2nd of Sentember, 1814,
served three months and was honourably discharged. He received Land
Warrant No. 63,365, for 40 acres. The above is taken from the soldier’s
sworn statement, and not from official records. Very respectfully,—
Franklin Townsend, Adjutant-General.
“ Those who are acquainted, through experience as investi¬
gators, with the workings of the Spiritualistic circle, will bear
in mind that the correct giving of dates is ever a matter of
difficulty on the part of the returning intelligence, and there¬
fore the slight discrepancy existing between the length of
service given by the spirit Florentine and that embodied in the
record, is easily explainable. But the main facts are esta¬
blished : Here is a spirit who manifests under the most
peculiar circumstances, and in the most forcible manner, to a
circle in a foreign land, whose members are all strangers to the
fact that such a being as himself ever trod the planet; a mem¬
ber of that circle asks through an English paper that proof (if
any exists in America) may be given him as to the verity of
said spirit’s assertions, and the same inquiry reaches us by
private letter ; we then call upon the public for information
concerning one of whom we have never before heard; we
receive in reply—from a legal gentleman in Washington,
whose acquaintanceship we have never had the pleasure of
making—the information which leads us to address the
Adjutant-General of the State of New York (who is also a total
stranger to us), and are assured from data existing at his office
that such a soldier did serve in the war of 1812, as claimed.
The theory of collusion is untenable here, as the several
parties who have given in the testimony are strangers to each
other. The chain of evidence is complete. Let those who
think they can explain this occurrence on any other hypo¬
thesis than that maintained by the Spiritual Philosophy
make the attempt.”
When that statement appeared, my friend, Dr. Crowell, was
kind enough to take steps to obtain additional verification
from Florentine’s widow. I append his letter, published in
the Banner, Feb. 20th, 1875 :—
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light”
Sir,—Upon reading in the Banner of the 13th inst. the article headed
“Abraham Florentine—Verification of his Message,” I examined my
Brooklyn Directory, and there found the name of Abraham Fioientine,
with the address 119, Kosciusko-street. Being at the moment disengaged,
and interested in pursuing the subject, I at once sought the street and
number indicated, and my application at the door was met by an elderly
lady, of whom I inquired whether Mr. Abraham Florentine resided there.
The reply was, “ He did reside here, but is now dead.”
Q,ues.—May I inquire whether you are Mrs. Florentine, his widow ?
Ans.—I am.
Upon my here remarking that I would be pleased to obtain some infor¬
mation about her late husband, she invited me to a seat in the parlour, and
our conversation was then resumed.
Q.—May I ask when he died?
A.—Last August.
Q.—At what time in that monfh ?
A.—On the fifth.
Q.—What was his age at time of decease ?
A.—Eighty-three,
Q.—Had he passed his eighty-third year ?
A.—Yes; his eighty-third birth-day was on the previous eighth of June.
Q.—Was he engaged in any war ?
A.—Yes, in the war of 4812.
Q.—Was he naturally active and self-reliant, or the reverse ?
A.—He had a will of his own, and was rather impetuous.
Q.—Was his last illness of long or short duration, and did he suffer
much ?
A.—He was confined to his bed for a year or more, and suffered a good
deal.
I have here given the questions and answers in their relative order and
in their exact words, from notes taken at the time. During a slight pause
following the last answer, Mrs. Florentine, who appeared to be a very
respectable lady of about sixty-five years of age and of American birth,
inquired my object in asking these questions, when I read to her the
article in the Banner, which evidently puzzled though it interested her, and
I then entered into a full explanation of its purport, greatly to her surprise.
She then fully endorsed every line of it, and I left, thanking her, and
promising, at her request, to send her a copy of the last number of your
journal.
It will be observed that while the spirit of Mr. Florentine states his age
to have been eighty-three years, one month, and seventeen days, according
to his widow’s account it should be twenty-seven days; but this
discrepancy is hardly worthy of notice, as either he or she may here be
equally mistakeb.
As the case stood, before this additional confirmation of its truth was
obtained, it certainly was a remarkable verification of a spirit-message, but
as now presented "it appears to me the evidence is conclusive.
I would add that I have some acquaintance with “M. A. (Oxon),” the
gentleman in London who applied in The Spiritualist for inlformation of
Abraham Florentine, and I can assure your readers that he occupies a very
high literary position, and his character is a guarantee against collusion
and deception, and I take pleasure in contributing to establish the identity
of the communicating spirit.—Yours truly, Eugene Crowell, M.D.
Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb. 15th, 1875.
To me personally it is extremely interesting to find my
queries verified by facts. I never doubted that the case would
turn out, as so many others have done, to be true, but the
interesting point of observation to me was as to the correct¬
ness of the deductions I drew from the singular way in which
the communication was made. The vehemence of the tilts and
knocks, the (to us) entirely novel mode of communicating, and
the evident earnestness of the spirit, and its eagerness in trying
to “ have its say ” were very striking. Doubtless, what will
strike your readers more, is the singularly conclusive nature
of the evidence respecting the actual return of the departed.
Most undoubtedly none of us had ever heard of Abraham
Florentine, nor had we any of us friends in America who
could have given us news of what went on there, nor, if we
had, could they have mentioned to us a fact in which we
should have felt no interest. As a plain matter 6i truth, X
repeat that both name and facts were entirely unknown to
any of us. And this is one among many instances in my own
experience, which I hope to gather up, and record in its
place. M.A. (Oxon).
March 19th, 1875.
SCIENCE AND RELIGION—THE NEW PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
‘‘ Is our faith on the sand or on a rock ? Is it too brittle to bear touching ? ”
Archbishop of Dublin, 1850.
Sib,—In your paper of this day, March 12th, you insert the
prospectus of a proposed psychological society, the object of
the society being “ the scientific investigation of psychology
in all its branches,” but “ all theological discussion to be
strictly excluded.” Now surely this is a mistake. The
analysis and nature of the religious sentiment and belief are
very important branches of psychology, andjtheology and reli¬
gion cannot be well separated, though they can be distin¬
guished, no doubt. Then why not discuss, after a scientific
method, calmly and deliberately, the psychology of theology,
since all that affects or concerns the human mind must be
considered as a branch of the science of man and mind ? The
religious question is one that Spiritualists very freely discuss,
and it is not to be avoided. In literary institutions religion
and politics may, as a general rule, be excluded; but the
investigation of psychology brings you at once face to face
with the great question of religion, which is one of the most
deeply interesting facts in regard to human nature, and the
psychology special to man. The matter is freely discussed
in the Dialectical Society, and no harm has come of it.
Religion cannot be excluded in psychology, any more
than- the Geological Society could prevent the facts of
geology bearing on the Bible account of creation; nay,
even at the Royal Institution we had Professor Max Muller
delivering lectures to crowded audiences, including members
of tbfe royal family, on the Science of Religion. Then what
folly to suppose that the special investigation of man’s mind
can exclude such a topic. The thing is impossible, and
cannot be. For the society to purpose the promulgation of
any particular religion, would be quite another matter; science
cannot be crippled in that way, and members must be left in
perfect freedom. The analysis of the religious sentiment is
one of the first questions I should care to write upon, that is,
‘ ‘ on the source of religious belief, and its psychological con¬
sequences.” You might as well try to exclude questions of
moral or of political government, or of the affections, or of the
relations of the sexes. There must be freedom of thought
and freedom of expression, provided that everything unneces¬
sarily offensive be avoided, and any member transgressing
would be overruled by the sense of the meeting and the good
taste of the chairman ; further, as a matter of course, no paper
would be read that had not been approved by the committee.
I think, sir, you would do good service if you would favour us
with your judgment on this deeply important question. But
that there should'bej a society of the kind is what Mrs. Har-
dioge and SpirithaliiSts in general have long desired. But in
the name of science, freedom, and common sense, do not let
religion be once more set up as a bar to progress.
There is one other matter that I would urge on the framers
of this new society—that ladies be as freely admitted as men,
as in the Geographical and Dialectical Societies, and as it was
with the Phrenological Society,—which was, in fact, a Psycho¬
logical Society, and of which I was the last president.
Spiritualists are setting a good example in the matter, with
such leading spirits as Mrs. Hardinge and Mrs. Tappan. The
time is past for excluding women from scientific discussion;
and that women should be the companions of men in most
things, particularly of an intellectual character, will aid true
civilisation, and tend towards social felicity and harmony.
March 19, 1875.
139
THE SPIRITUALIST.
The secularists, again, are setting an example in this respect,
and I hope the psychologists -will follow it. The Royal Insti¬
tution is another example in point. At the Dialectical Society,
should a member observe that he cannot enter on so and so in
the presence of ladies, he is at once hushed down—as indicat¬
ing that such an observation and reserve are quite out of place.
See the noble women now devoted to the repeal of the Con¬
tagious Diseases Acts, that admirable Mrs. Butler taking the
lead. Whether they are right, practically and in principle, or
not, is another matter. I only wish to show how women are
free to discuss all social questions whatsoever, both from an
intellectual and moral point of view; and the real want of
delicacy is rather in the exclusion from topics on which
women are quite as much interested as men.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Gare, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
[We think it would be best to say nothing on the subject in the pro¬
spectus, but to leave the Council and Chairman to settle each case on its
own merits.—Ed.]
HRS. COLLIER’S MEDIUM SHIP—A SEANCE WITH CHILDREN'—
WHENCE CAME THE BON-BONS ?
Sir,—Will you kindly grant me space in your widely-circu¬
lated newspaper to draw the attention of its readers to the fact
that in a few weeks we in Birmingham shall lose the services
of one of our best mediums.
Those friends who have been privileged to sit with Mrs.
John Collier, will agree with me, that the phenomena through
her mediumship are far beyond suspicion, and are sometimes
of a most startling character. Not unfrequently tests 'of
spirit identity are given to the circle. Mrs. Collier is not a
professional medium, hence I can have no other object than to
give “ honour to whom honour is due.” A large circle of
sincere friends here feels great regret at the parting, as Mrs.
Collier is a lady whose kindness of disposition and open¬
heartedness at once win over all who have the privilege of
her acquaintance.
Some little time ago, when Mrs. Collier was on a visit at my
house, she very kindly promised the children that she would
sit for them, especially as they had not been admitted to our
general circle: they were considered too young. They looked
forward with anxiety to the time, as not one bit of- fear of
spirits disturbs them. They were arranged in a circle—four of
them, myself, mamma, and Mrs. Collier, seven altogether.
Presently loud sonorous raps were heard, then the bell on the
table commenced ringing, and several articles, including a large
inkstand, books, &c., which were on the table, became animated
and moved about. Our esteemed spirit friend, Mr. B. Hawkes,
late of Birmingham, soon gave unmistakable proofs of his
presence ; he held a lively conversation by means of raps on
the table. One of my daughters said, “ Mr. Hawkes used to
bring us something in his pocket when he came to see us,
didn’t he, pa ? ” 11 Yes,” rapped out Mr. Hawkes. “Yes,”
said I. “Do you think he could bring us something now ? ”
asked the same child. “ Yes,” thundered Mr. Hawkes on
the table. I then put the question, “ Mr. Hawkes, will
you try ijo bring the children something to-night?”
“ Yes” came again in loud knocks. We waited about three
minutes, when there came such a crash upon the table, and
crowds of little lights of a most brilliant description ; but so
soon as the articles reached the table all. was darkness
again; in another instant the same was repeated. Mrs.
Franklin, myself, and children saw the stream of light as it
flashed from the corner of the ceiling. Thus came seven lots
of bon-bons, of a superior description, of about one pound in
weight altogether. As there were seven sitters, one lot came
for each. When the gas was turned up, the children were in
ecstasies at the sight presented, the table being literally
covered with sweets. During the sitting my youngest child,
a little blue-eyed seven-year-old, said—“ I feel some one
touching my face and head; now they are patting my back.”
“ Do you feel afraid ?” “ Oh dear no! pa; the hand feels so
soft, and they touch me so gently and stroke my face so
lovingly.” She.might well be without fear, for it was the
touch of her spirit-sister, “Lucy,” who so|frequentlyvisits our
circle, bringing flowers for her mamma, and “laying her
gentle hands in mine.” The children thought it was delight¬
ful to be so close to our spirit friends, and to feel them so
close to us. I wish every family could be so blessed with the
tangible presence of the loved ones gone before.
On another occasion, under strict test conditions and
through Mrs. Collins’ mediumship, half a sheet of note paper
was held under the table, when instantly was written on it—
“ Dear Mamma—Your loving little girl, Lucy” This was a
note from our child who passed away from earth some fourteen
years ago, at the age of four months. We then became deeply
interested. One friend was anxious to learn what sort of a
girl she was; another was equally anxious to know what she
was doing. Another half-sheet of note paper was placed under
the table and held as before, when the following was instantly
written :—“ I have learnt to sing, to play music, and to dance.
Mamma and papa will he proud.” Tbese two direct spirit
messages in direct spirit writing Mrs. Franklin and myself
highly prize; we have sealed them up, feo that they shall not
sustain injury.
So I might go on, but I must draw the line, or else you will.
In conclusion, I would say we have few good mediums in this
country, while America can boast of quite an army of them;
hence Mrs. Collier’s Birmingham friends deeply regret the
change she is about to make, and should she find the land
across the water not congenial to her feelings or pursuits, she
will meet with a most hearty welcome among friends here if
she will return. Aaron Franklin.
Rock-placS, Victoria-road, Aston-park,
Birmingham, March 9th, 1875.
AID TO MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I beg to suggest to my brother and sister professional
mediums the idea of offering to preside at the tea-tables on
the occasion of the benefit "soiree to be given to our old and
needy co-worker, Mr. Wallace. I myself will do so, and any
other mediums who will join should please send in their names
to the secretaries. I also suggest that the surplus of some of
the National Association soir'ees shall be given every three
months towards raising a fund for old and indigent mediums,
and of Spiritualists who have worked for the glorious cause
until their vital forces are exhausted, and, to the shame and
disgrace of the believers, are left in want.
Lottie Fowler.
2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury, W.G., March 8th, 1875.
THE DEVELOPMENT OP MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—But few people seek to develops their powers of
mediumship from those elevated notions which should be the
paramount intention and aspiration of the soul—to advance
themselves in spiritual perfection and beauty; to develops, in
short, the angel within. This is a lifelong work, beginning
here to be continued in heaven; and the attempt to open the
spiritual senses or faculties—which is the characteristic of so-
called mediumship—should be made with the object of fur¬
thering, or assisting that work. We find a few persons,
however, actuated by so many lower motives, and seeking
“ development ’’with so much incautiousness, that they some¬
times fall victims to their own folly and imprudence, becoming
disabled for longer or shorter periods, under attacks of brain
fever, delirium, or insanity. These cases are, it is true,
comparatively rare ; but they serve as an indication that there
are certain dangers attending the cultivation of open intercourse
with the spirit world, against which it is essential to take
precautions.
I contemplate with edification, and more or less personal
profit, the beautiful evidences given by some individuals of a
happy and healthful pursuit of mediumship, in which they
have attained to an apparent superexcellence in some form or
other, of speaking, writing, drawing, or powers of revelation,
prophecy, or healing. Instruments in the hands of beneficent
spirits, they are made the benefactors or instructors of their
fellow-beings, and through them, as through prepared channels,
the blessings of Spiritualism descend to all. Some of these
selected instruments become obviously purified and elevated
spiritually; while some few, who are filling, unquestionably,
offices of usefulness in the cause, fail to give such high indica¬
tions, though they doubtless profit in some way.
The dangers attendant upon seeking open communion with
spirits by the cultivation of mediumship, almost always rest
with the seekers themselves.. Already the victims of some
mental or spiritual deformity, they, by their manner of
seeking, lay themselves open to chastisements. Sometimes,
in the excess of frivolity, they desire only to amuse themselves
in an assemblage of fashionable idlers ; sometimes an
ambitious egotism lies at the root of their endeavours to obtain
communion with spirits ; sometimes they are wildly enthu¬
siastic, and foolishly credulous; sometimes, weakly submissive
and without strength of character, they become the tools of spirits
as they would of designing mortals, did they yield the same un¬
reasonable submission; sometimes they are too dogmatic and
140 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 19, 1875.
stubborn to take advice from the more experienced; and
sometimes they have a lurking hereditary tendency to mental
aberration, which might be excited under any circumstances.
Whatever may be their errors, innate deformity of spirit, or
constitutional weakness, the baffled votaries may look within
for the cause of their non-success, or misfortunes.
It sometimes happens, however, that the unsympathetic or
antagonistic surroundings of those seeking development in
spiritual gifts operates upon them injuriously. They are of
higher spiritual natures than the coarser-grained beings about
them; it is a positive necessity with them to cultivate the
mediumship which is latent within; it is as if the unchained
spirit struggled for freedom, beating against the bars of its
material cage, until permitted to soar aloft, either for short
flights from earth to return again, or eternally emancipated
by the death of the body, to take that longer flight from which
there is no return. In the effort to live out their God-given
natures, however, they meet either with coarse jeering and
ridicule, sneering indifference and disbelief, or peremptory
prohibition. Nervous, sensitive, and delicately constituted,
they perhaps receive a shock to the system which either
induces a low state of health and nervous depression, or the
conflict ends summarily in insanity or death. Sometimes it
is the beloved daughter of the family, or the idolized son; or
it might be the mis-mated wife of a gross, sensual worldling ;
or a lonely youth whose poverty may have condemned him to
associate with persons surrounded by low spirits, whose in¬
fluence operates upon him prejudicially. It is well if the
victims to such unwholesome surroundings be not the possessors
of property, for this too often becomes a temptation to some
wicked guardian, relative, or husband, to hurry them off to
the safe seclusion of a lunatic asylum, where the proper
means to restore them can never be taken, while their property
is managed and enjoyed for them. Catherine Woodforde.
Bemard-street, Russell-square, W.C.
A SEANCE WITH MISS SHOWERS.
Sir,—Allow me to record the particulars of a morning
seance with Miss Showers, held under test conditions, partly
in daylight, and under most favourable and exceptional cir¬
cumstances, there being only three persons present, viz., Mrs.
and Miss Showers and the writer. I mean by “ favourable
circumstances” that there was only one “investigator,” fori
believe it has often been observed that when many individuals
are congregated, each one probably requiring his own parti¬
cular test, the manifestations are frequently less decided and
less satisfactory. I also find it, as a rule, to be a prudent
plan to allow the controlling spirits to choose their own tests,
as they evidently know what they can best do, under the then
existing conditions.
On Thursday, the 4th of March, I paid a morning visit to
Mrs. Showers, when Miss Showers kindly allowed me to try
some experiments.
I asked her to place the points of the fingers of one hand
on a heavy table, and at the same time I did the same on the
opposite side. Immediately the table was violently thrown
over towards me, nearly down to the floor, then, at my re¬
quest, it righted itself and turned over in a similar manner
towards Miss Showers. The legs rapped out answers of “ Yes ”
and “ No ” by strongly beating on the floor. The medium
then placed the point of her forefinger on the top rail of a
mahogany chair, which, at my request, rocked to and fro
and then rapidly turned round, first to the right and then to
the left.
All this occurred in daylight, and must have convinced any
investigator that such rapid and decided movements could not
have been caused by “ unconscious muscular action.”
Peter’s voice was now heard, and he said he would give me
some capital tests.
I tied each of Miss [Showers’ wrists with narrow strips of
calico, and then fastened her hands together behind her back
so tightly that the flesh was deeply marked and very cold
when I cut off the bindings at the end of the seance. The
medium wished me to seal the knots with sealing-wax, but
this I did not think necessary to do. I next fastened her
bound hands to a sta,ple securely fixed in the wall—she being
seated on a music-stool—and then finished by tying her neck
fast to another staple. Her feet were tied together by Mrs.
Showers.
Having placed a narrow strip of calico round the medium’s
neck, I allowed the ends to hang down over her shoulders.
A very thick curtain hung across the room, partitioned off
a sufficient space to form the cabinet in which we were to be
seated.
I then placed myself on a footstool by the side of Miss
Showers, and held her bound hands in mine.
Soon after I had taken my position Peter called to Mrs.
Showers, who was in the next room, to come and open the
curtain. I stood up, and found that the strip of calico had
been tied round the neck of the medium in a remarkably
neat bow.
The next experiments were made without my holding the
medium’s hands. My pocket-handkerchief was placed on her
lap, with a needle and thread on it.
I asked Peter to sew something up in the handkerchief. In
a very short space of time he desired me to open the curtain
and to look in, when I found that he had sewn up a piece of
the braided hair on the top of the medium’s head into the
handkerchief, leaving the needle in, and the end of the hand¬
kerchief hanging down on the medium’s face.
I then placed a board on a chair, with a hammer and nail
on it, near the medium, and immediately after the curtain had
been closed the hammer was heard hard at work. Then, being
desired to look in, I found the nail had been driven fast into
the board.
I asked Peter to write me a letter, and placed a piece of
paper and a pencil on the board.
Soon afterwards I heard a scratching sound, as if by some
person writing, and being again desired to look in, found he
had written the following words :—
“ Dear Captain James,—I am glad to have given-you pleasure. I hope
you will often come and sit with Rosie.” (Rosie is the name he has given
his medium.)
After each experiment I examined the fastenings of the
hands and neck, and found them to be as tight as at first.
On the same morning, John King, at my request, wrote
some verses through the medium’s hand in answer to my
questions. They were written off very rapidly, the medium
talking to me all the time, and without looking at the paper
until her hand stopped.
It appears to me that the great value of Miss Showers’
mediumship consists in the interesting variety of the manifes¬
tations.
Here we have rappings, tiltings, the raising of tables from
the floor, all done in the most marked and decided manner,
and certainly not to be accounted for by either electricity or
“ unconscious muscular action.” Then we have spirit voices,
both talking and singing, so that beautiful quartettes, trios,
and duets are sung in Peter’s baritone, Florence’s soprano,
and Lenore’s contralto voices, with the occasional assistance
of the aged lady, who, when in this world, probably prided
herself on her musical talents, and, lastly, the child-voice of
Isabel. Then we have the direct writing by Peter, and the
writing of poetry by John King controlling the hand of his
medium.
Lastly, the marvellous materialisations of several distinct
forms, with their respective dresses, the latter objects not a
little puzzling to the most experienced inquirers as to their
origin and composition, and as to what becomes of them when
their wearers have vanished. J. James.
Jersey Villas, Tottenham, March 13th, 1875.
GUARANTEEING GENUINE MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—A short time since you were good enough to insert
the particulars of a very satisfactory seance I had with
Miss Fowler, and which to me as an investigator was very
gratifying.
I have read, with no little annoyance, the details of the suc¬
cessful fraud of the Holmes’s in America, and although to
Spiritualists the facts may not matter much, yet to those who
are earnestly endeavouring to ascertain the truth, and who
have read Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s works, the fact of his being
so easily deceived, causes a painful feeling.
Now the first seance I ever attended was at the Holmes’s,
where I went as a stranger visiting London, and it occurred
to me then that the manner in which they conducted their
seance was such as to make any investigator uncertain
whether the results obtained were due to trickery or not; and
i should have come away in a very unsatisfactory state of
mind had I not the good fortune to meet Mr. D. D. Home
there, who very kindly made my acquaintance, and asked me
to accompany him to where he was staying, which I did, and
there had tests given me by Mr. Home in a trance state. That
decided me to go on with my investigation, and if Mr. Home
reads your paper I can assure him the stranger he welcomed
then has a very grateful recollection of his kindness.
It is greatly to your credit, and the i credit of English
Spiritualists generally, that the Holmes’s were decided to be
March 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
untrustworthy, and the statement to that effect made by you
goes far to counteract the feeling caused by their detection in
America, at least I find it so amongst my own friends to
whom I mention these matters.
Now as far as my experience goes, a great and growing
interest is being taken in Spiritualism amongst non-Spirit-
ualists, and it has occurred to me that your National Associa¬
tion would very greatly benefit both Spiritualists and the
public generally if it were possible for it to submit all persons
professing to be public mediums, to such tests as would be en¬
tirely satisfactory as to whether they really posses mediumistic
power or not, and when the Association was satisfied, to pub¬
lish the result. No honest medium would surely refuse to
place himself, or herself, in the hands of the Association for
such a purpose. As to genuine mediums, such a course would
be of great service : it would benefit them, and prevent a great
deal of imposture.
Mr. Crookes, I see, has again done very much to encourage
investigators. His recent experiments with Mrs. Fay have
been copied from the last number of The Spiritualist into the
Eastern Daily Press, a paper that has a large circulation in
the eastern counties, and which published the “ Katie King
American deception.” Mr. Crookes’s account will do much to
annul the bad effects caused to its readers by the former
quotation.
Nothing is more surprising to me than to have seen a differ¬
ence of opinion as to the effect of regularly organising the
movement. An Association must have more power and weight
than isolated individuals; the every-day experience of life
shows this most conclusively. And perhaps nothing your As¬
sociation can do would more really benefit the movement
than by undertaking and determining to prevent imposture as
far as possible, and to expose any pretended mediums who
may be detected in trickery by it. This an association can
do much more effectively than any private individual, and if
undertaken by it, it would alone fully justify its formation.
Regusteab.
Marcli is, 1875.
[This letter assumes that powerful physical mediumship is always asso¬
ciated with good moral character, whereas unprincipled as well as reliable
mediums get wonderful manifestations. By the plan suggested by our
correspondent, a “shady ” medium might get a certificate for genuine
manifestations, and afterwards introduce imposture, so as to place the
donors of the certificate in a false position. Moreover a medium is a
mesmeric sensitive, and an investigator may first be delighted with him
because his departed uncle communicates through him, but afterwards
condemn the medium because the said uncle who was a bad man on earth,
makes the medium commit certain offences. These notions of certificating
mediums, always come from those who have'had little experience as to the
characteristics of mesmeric sensitives.—Ed.]
ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS OP ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
Sir,—In the current number of The Spiritualist, just re¬
ceived, you allude (p. 120) to “the newly discovered powers of
sleeping persons.” Will you kindly give me room to state
that these “ powers,” as well as the materialisation of spirit-
forms, and all the other admirable feats of manifestation now
being achieved by our spirit-friends, were fully treated of and
lucidly explained, nearly twenty years ago, by the devoted
pioneer whose works I shall soon have the happiness of bring¬
ing within reach of English readers ?
The chapter headed “Emancipation of the Soul," in The
Spirits' Boole, gives the explanation of ‘ ‘ Sleep and Dreams;
Visits between the Spirits of Living Persons; Occult Trans¬
mission of Thought; Lethargy, Catalepsy, Apparent Death;
Somnambulism; Trance; Second Sight." The chapter of The
Medium's Booh headed, “ Bi-corporeity," deals with “ Appari¬
tions of the Spirits of Living Persons ; Doubles; Transfigura¬
tion; Invisibility." The chapter of the same book headed,
“ The Laboratory of the Invisible World," treats, in the same
broad and lucid style, of “ The Garments of Spirits; Spon¬
taneous Formation of Tangible Objects; Modification of the
Properties of Matter; and Curative Action of Animal Mag¬
netism."
The Continental mind is, in general, readily receptive of
theoretic demonstration ; and therefore the works of Allan
Kardec, which set forth the principles of phenomena that
were yet to come, could be, and have been, accepted on the
Continent before the development of the spirit manifestations
they explain and imply. The English mind, on the contrary,
usually declines to consider any theory until it has assured
itself of the facts assumed by such theory; and it would
almost seem that the high intelligences who are directing the
great movement of the present day have therefore purposely
delayed the presentation of those principles in England, in
order to allow that presentation to he preceded, as is now
being done, by the production of phenomena which are the
visible and tangible proofs of the truth of the theoretic
statements he was employed to elaborate.
Anna Blackwell.
13, Rue Lauriston, Paris, March. 7th, 1875.
A SEANCE IN PETERBOROUGH.
Sib,—Dr. Monck visited this city, and gave a seance of great
phenomenal interest, on Wednesday evening. The meeting
took place at the Cromwell-road residence of Mr. Robert
Catling; the investigators included eight gentlemen and one
lady, all of superior intelligence, but whose names, I am
requested not to publish. At the same time, I may remark,
that all present, with one exception, testify to the phenomenal
genuineness of the seances; and the gentleman remaining
sceptical—a shrewd secularist of strong positive views—could
not accept the manifestations without the imposition of
more scientific tests than the medium allowed upon the occa¬
sion. This statement is necessary, in deference to the adverse
opinions of the dissentient investigator, who, notwithstanding
his acute suspicions, remained passive to the conditions of the
seance during the evening.
After the customary exchange of drawing-room civilities, we
sat in the usual fashion; two long tables, covered with a
white cloth, and closely backed up to each other, being the
consecrated altar of the night’s ceremonies. Dr. Monck
shared the entire south side of the conjoined tables, placed his
hands upon the top, and encouraged the friendly familiarities
of conversation and song. In this wise we spent nearly two
hours. A few raps only relieved the monotony of the Quaker-
like proceedings. “ Sing,” said Dr. Monck, and we warbled
popular melodies in a frightful manner, having only one lady
present to represent the angel side of human minstrelsy. As
songsters, the Christy’s never leave London; and certainly
we, as an impromptu choir, shall never leave Peterborough by
special invitation, if outsiders respect the ordinary precautions
against bad health. But the phenomena came at last, and in
the full power of the light. Raps came as plentiful as black¬
berries, and replied to commonplace questions; the candle¬
stick tilted away from any of the sitters; and two books
naked (and afterwards covered with a handkerchief), moved
as if influenced by some power in actual contact with them.
Said Dr. Monck, “ That is your psychic force;” and all the
sitters, myself excepted, witnessed such peculiar movements of
objects for the first time, and seemed considerably interested.
A dark seance followed. All joined hands, Dr. Monck being
held to his seat by Mr. Catling and the lady sitter. The only
tests put forth, previous to the meeting, being the searching of
Dr. Monck by one or more of the influential investigators,
the company gave the medium the benefit of sympathetic con¬
fidence. Hence we had harmony of feeling, if not scientific
proofs of the actual phenomena. The wisdom, or otherwise,
of this arrangement I will not here stay to discuss, especially
as I can appreciate the delicate psychological conditions
under which the more startling results are evolved. Almost
as soon as the light was turned out, the usual physical
manifestations occurred. The spirit “ Samuel” controlled
the medium; and, in the comparative darkness/ books,
papers, and pictures flew in all directions; the accordion was
played overhead; the sofa tried to kiss the ceiling; golden
lights, finger-shaped, full-handed; and finally, in distinct
letters, “Jane” became visible in the darkness. All this time
the persons holding Dr. Monck continued to testify that they
were fulfilling that responsible duty. Apparently, the medium
was levitated, for the familiar, guttural voice of Samuel, ad¬
dressed us in Artemus Ward fashion, downwards from the ceil¬
ing. It was past midnight when the seance terminated.
What a scene of confusion confounded ! The light revealed
a tableau not unsuggestive of a pantomime scene after the
street roughs have pelted the policeman. Everything was
disarranged. The phenomena had set in like a tide; and the
room and the sitters vividly recalled the “young earthquake’s
birth” of Byron’s stormy muse. John T. Mabkley.
Altoert-place, Peterborough, March 15th.
SPIRITUALISM AND THEOLOGICAL DOGMAS.
Sir,—I am sorry to see that your columns have been lately
opened to the discussion of religious questions. I am sorry
because I believe such discussions to be an absolute waste of
time, and further because I never knew an argument on religion
which did not end in a dispute. ,
I do not care how great toleration and liberality of thought
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Makch 19, 1875.
maybe expressed at the outset; the result, viz,, bitterness and
mutual contempt, is as certain as mathematics.
What object do the disputants hope to attain ? Can they be
weak enough to believe that any words of theirs can alter the
views of their opponents ? Does the freethinker hope—can he
possibly wish—to take from the Christian his most treasured
possession—his “ faith ?”
Can the Christian hope to entice back into the captivity of
religious dogma, the spirit that has once shaken off the
fetters.
Will the mother, on persuasion, part with the little infant
that lies in her bosom ? Can the eagle be made a denizen of
the poultry yard ?
I cannot hold you, sir, blameless in this matter. You know
that the strife is purposeless—that it is one in which there
can be neither victor nor vanquished.
Throw down your warder, then, and bid these quarrelsome
folks to be at peace, and to reserve their powers of argument
for some better purpose. Martin E. Smith.
Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Sir,—I quite agree with your correspondent, “ A. T.,” as to
the desirability of excluding discussions on these subjects, but
when you are recommended to exclude my views, because they
may possibly startle orthodox outsiders, and diminish the cir¬
culation of your paper, I am pleased to find that you consider
the interests of truth superior to those of The Spiritualist.
The letters of ex-Spiritualists, Mr. Pearce, and Mr. Suther¬
land, are simply attacks on those who have any confidence in
spirits, upon those who do not bow down to and acknowledge
the divinity of Christ; and if one side is to be heard, your cor¬
respondents must be prepared to hear the views of those who
differ from them.
Your correspondent “Hopeful,” urges that because these
subjects have been written upon by able writers, who knew
nothing of the experiences after death, it is hardly likely that
these same able men coming back to us from the world beyond
the grave, with all their enlarged experiences (“ ghosts ”
though they be according to your correspondent), are able to
tell us anything new !
Seeing that many come to renounce their former belief, and
others tell us how'happy they are in spite of their non-belief,
J think this objection requires no answering.
For the reason that I hold such beliefs to be quite imma¬
terial, I endorse your correspondent’s protest against these
“ profitless wrangles.” Fritz.
Manchester, March 6th, 1875.
Sir,—I most heartily agree with your correspondents, A. T.,
Hopeful, and C. C. E. Spiritualism will never be advanced
by theological controversy amongst its advocates in the public
way proposed. We all know well that it has enough to fight
against already, let alone stirring up unnecessary prejudice
in the minds of popular Christians. Let every man be per¬
suaded in his own mind as to the truth in questions theo¬
logical. Spiritualism cannot do much to settle knotty points
in these, and if I may make a suggestion, it would be to keep
the movement free from such controversy. The energies and
efforts of its promoters should be directed to the discovery
and exhibition of its facts. We want facts. We have abun¬
dance of theory. As for myself I do not care a straw, to hear
ever so eloquent an address or oration upon the most ancient
angel, demon, or demigod, or of primal and perfect states,
which I have no proof had, or has, or will have any real exist¬
ence. My great want is as much knowledge as possible of the
'facts of Spiritualism, as they exist. Tell us what is. My
soul longs to hear something about the spirit state, how its
inhabitants live, what they do, where it is situated, what is
seen there, and all about it, for we are all going there soon.
We do not want high fainting or theological wrangles, and I
hope the good sense of the majority will so influence matters
as to promote real work, not mere words. I, for one, deeply
regret the keen relish some Spiritualists seem to have for the
discussion of theological questions, and their tendency to push
their peculiar views in the front of things, as if the mind
could not properly accept the facts without first either becom¬
ing anti-Christian on the one hand, or adopting some particular
dogma on the other.
Let well alone. All shades of Christians are half Spirit¬
ualists already, why then pursue such a suicidal policy as some
do, who shock popular feeling by constantly proclaiming the
most cherished doctrines of Christianity false, or else insist
upon some dogma. I echo with C. C. E., “ a plague on both
your houses.” Let us know what you see and hear and feel,
from the spirit world, and we will make dogmas for ourselves.
Spiritualism may be accepted by all shades of believers; let
its best friends then seek its propogation rather than their own
little pet crotchets in its name. • Inquirer.
Edinburgh, March 9th, 1875.
Sir,—I hope that you, as editor, and most of your readers
also, will agree with me, in thinking it quite a delusion on the
part of Mr. Pearce, to suppose that he has “ clearly answered ”
either of the questions I proposed. He has only done that
which I asked him not to do. The sentence which he quotes is
one which may convey R,n almost infinite variety of meanings,
and can be of no value as a foundation for a discussion. In
composition it is not complete, unless the word “being” is
substituted for the word “ is.” Whether that would express
what is intended I do not know.
Even then, who is to decide what the “ spiritual sense ” is,
or what precise meaning is to be attached to the concluding
clause ?
I most fully agree with your correspondents, who would
desire to see discussions of this kind excluded from your
columns; and the real object of my letter a fortnight ago,
was to illustrate the inadvisability of entering on them, by
eliciting the impossibility of obtaining a definite basis to start
from. I think, so far, Mr. Pearce has shown his inability to
find one. Edward T. Bennett.
Betchworth, March 7,1875.
“ Help us, 0 God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name, and deliver
us, and purge away our sins, for thy name’s sake. "Wherefore should the
heathen say, Where is" their God ? ”—Psalm Ixxix. 9,10.
Sir,—The thinking world are rapidly becoming inquirers as
to the source of the mysterious power which is asserting itself
on all sides. The first cry which greeted the strange pheno¬
mena was “ Fraud ! ” The second, “ Imagination I ” The
third, “Natural laws!” We now are unwillingly forced to
acknowledge the existence of spiritual influence. Upon this
point science has nothing to say, but the religious world
rouses itself, and the battle will henceforth be between the
servants of one master. “Spiritualism” no longer is a term
expressing the many mysteries that the new light makes mani¬
fest. “Eeligion ” is used to signify a multitude of forms of
worship; “ Spiritualism ” includes a multitude of opinions
and beliefs.
A man may be a religious man in the eyes of some, a heathen
in the opinion of others ; so a Spiritualist may be regarded as
an agent for good or for evil, according to the religious pre¬
judices of those who judge him.
Eeligion is a growing plant, bearing many kinds bf fruit;
the religion of yesterday may not look like the religion of
to-day, for as the blooms unfold their petals the aspect of the
plant changes, though the root and stem are ever the same.
Eeligion is the worship of unseen power; Spiritualism is a
belief in the manifestation of unseen intelligence.
Savages worship the unseen power in its two degrees—
“ good ” and “ bad.” Ignorant believers in spirit power fail
to discriminate between evil and good ; all that is wonderful
is acceptable to them, or contrariwise, according to the bias of
their mind and inclination.
Science can never explain spiritual things. Spiritual must
be compared with spiritual before it can be understood.
The Bible is the book that should most commend itself to
inquirers after the source of spiritual influence, seeing that it
is the only history that combines material and spiritual records
in unison. Those who read it from simply a material point of
view are offended at many things they cannot comprehend, or
bring within the ordinary range of reason. Those who consider
it as simply allegorical, miss its value as an historical record;
but those who would receive the full benefit of its lessons must
read it with due discrimination as to where fact ceases and
metaphor begins. How read ye ? was the demand of our Lord.
In one place we find a history, in another a poem, in another
a lamentation, in another a prophecy, in another a vision.
The early books of Moses could not have been compiled from
personal experience, but must have been records of oral tradi¬
tions, or the work of direct inspiration. No one has as yet
given us so generally acceptable an account of the earth’s
earliest history as that we find attributed to Moses, and the
Jews, to whom we look for the strictest preservation of the
earliest writings, have stamped their seal of approbation upon
these records as most reliable. What other works have those
who discredit these to offer in their place ?
Coin in passing from hand to hand may lose the clearness
Makch 19, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
143
and precision of the first impression ; the image of the king,
the date of the coinage, may be feeble and half effaced, but the
ring of the metal pronounces its value as long as it can be
called a coin.
To these early books our Saviour referred as testifying of
Him. With such a direction Christians may well rest content.
Having thus the first link in the chain of evidence as to
spiritual history, we go on, book by book, till we find the fulfil¬
ment of the promises of the first. Believing the promise we
accept the fulfilment, but discrediting the fulfilment obliges
our rejection of the promise; the links separate, and the chain
dissolves.
Those who reject the sacred writings must account for
Spiritual phenomena as best they can ; but to those who are
content to bring them to. the light of Scripture they seem
sufficiently in harmony to be considered as carrying on the
world’s spiritual history into our own times.
. Nowhere in that history do we find good and evil inactive.
War commenced in the garden of Eden—war still ,rages, and
the end we see not. Is it to be supposed that any spiritual
manifestation can be one-sided or unquestionable ? God
walked in the garden of Eden; was not the serpent there
also ? Moses performed signs and wonders; did not the
magicians do the like ? The prophets of God prophesied side
by side with the prophets of Baal; Christ himself was led by
the Devil to be tempted in the wilderness; the good seed grows
together with the tares, and the division of good and evil is
reserved for the day of judgment. Why is modern spiritual
experience to differ from the experience of the past ? Is not
the Holy Spirit, in the conscience of all, a fellow householder
with the Prince of Darkness? In what do you find good
apart from evil, save in the person of God ?
Men have the promise of help from an irresistible Guar¬
dian, who will direct all those who seek His guidance; such
as trust in Him will be safely led through the strait and
narrow path that leads to Him.
Those who start at the name of spirit power, as manifested
in our own day, would have joined the alarmed cry of those
who said, “ He is mad and hath a devil.” They were not evil
men who said this, as far as we know, but they saw a new
manifestation of spirit power, And pronounced it at once to be
Satanic.
Need we be surprised at the present reception of modern
evidences of spirit presence and miraculous power ? We are
mad or have devils. The teachings may lead to God and
self-sacrifice, and the more clearly is Satan thereby regarded as
transformed to an angel of light.
The difficulty in the way of modern spiritual progress is
chiefly on account of its being regarded as a new creation,
instead of a continuance of an unbroken line of God-directed
communication between heaven and earth. Man is still free,
as Adam was, to heed the voice of God or listen to the wiles of
the serpent, and those who reject the experiences of the old-
world teachings as to the dealings of good and evil with man,
wil\ have to realise for themselves what they could have learnt
from the history of the past, and must reap the trouble that
must precede conviction. In the Bible every species of
spirit communion is described, the end, aim, and object of
each. We have but to compare our own experience with these,
to be able readily to detect the quality of our gift, whence it
springs, and whither it is leading us, but those who reject the
Bible throw away the touchstone of their faith, and have to
find out the quality of their gift by personal hard-won
experience. George M. Sutherland.
117, Sloane-street.
[It was not from the weakness of indecision that the attempts to intro¬
duce theological controversy were not stopped at the outset, but to show
that public oninion is against discussing points of dogma, and that the
tendency of this journal is to err in the promotion of free discussion rather
than in its suppression. Although it was decided at the Liverpool Con¬
ference that theological subjects were not to be introduced into the National
Association of Spiritualists, some Spiritualists on the Council persisted in
bringing forward those points, delaying useful work, wasting money and
time, and running the risk of splitting up the organisation; a vote of all
the members was then taken on the results of all this inj udicious talk, and
the decisions of the talkers were very properly swept away by the common
sense of an overwhelming majority. Some correspon'dehts have placed
before us as a chief motive, the taking of any course which promotes the
circulation of this journal; wq<constantly do things which we kaow before¬
hand will temporarily check its circulation. This journal is the only one
connected with Spiritualism, which has printed particulars of the Holmes’s
imposture, and of the spirit-photograph imposture, yet this furnishing
readers with truthful and important information causes them to buy much
fewer copies than usual on those occasions, for distribution among the
general public.—Ed.]
The Echo of last Tuesday published some humorous re^
marks about Mr. Crookes’s last article iu The Spiritualist.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
SEANCES WITH MRS. E. CORNER (ELORENCE COOK), MISS
SHOWERS AND MRS. BASSETT, NON-PROEESSIONAL MEDIUMS.
Last Sunday night a seance was held at the residence of
Mr. George Neville, 9, Begent’s-park-terrace, Gloucester-gate,
London, and among the guests present were Mrs. Neville,
Mr. Edwin Arnold, Mr. Bassett, Mrs. Bassett, Mrs. E. Corner
(Florence Cook), Miss Clemes, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
During the first part of the evening there was a good dark
seance; while Mr. Arnold held the hands of Mrs. Bassett,
materialised spirit hands were busy touching sitters at that
end of the table, and carrying objects such as bracelets and
keys from one sitter to another. Addresses of a more elevating
character than those usually given by spirits with strong
physical power, were delivered by the direct voice by James
Lombard and Mr. Robinson, two of Mrs. Bassett’s guides, and
as the power strengthened with the harmonious conditions,
the source of the voices perceptibly increased in its distance
from Mrs. Bassett, to show that the sounds were not pro¬
duced by her vocal organs.
Afterwards there was an unpremeditated light seance. A
cabinet was extemporised, an adjoining room being used for
the purpose ; Mrs. Corner entered this, and shortly afterwards
a living figure draped in white entered the room in which the
observers sat. Mrs. Corner, who was not entranced, was terri¬
fied when this form re-entered the cabinet, so she asked Mr.
Neville to enter, which he did, and found nothing there but
Mrs. Corner dressed in black; there were rapping noises about
the room. After a time he left the cabinet; shortly after¬
wards the elaborately robed figure came out once more, moved
a chair, and said that as the power was exhausted the seance
must close, but that Mr. Neville had better follow her into the
cabinet. This he did, and he estimated that he entered the
cabinet one second after the spirit had done so, yet there was
Mrs. Corner in her ordinary dress, and no apparition. Mrs,
Corner had never been in the house before, and when she
entered it had no intention of sitting for manifestations.
Evidently Mrs. Corner’s spirits by long practice can now
materialise and de-materialise themselves expeditiously, almost
as rapidly as hands are materialised and de-mate ialised
through the mediumship of Mrs. Fay.
Last Sunday week, there was a seance through the medium-
ship of Miss Showers, at which Mrs. Showers,Mr. and Mrs.George
Neville, and Mr. W. H. Harrison were present. Miss Showers
sat for manifestations like those through Mrs. Fay’s mediumship
and obtained them, but not with the same rapidity, since it is
evident that the spirits improve in their manifestations by
practice. The kind of manifestations obtained are described
in a letter by Capt. J. James, late of the 90th Light Infantry,
whose communication will be found in another column.
After two powerful mediums meet for the first time, it is
commonly the case that the one obtains some of the mani¬
festations of the other at the next seance after they have
parted.
Last Tuesday night there was a dark seance at Mr. Henry
Cook’s, at Hackney ; Mr. and Mrs. William Crookes, Mr. G. R.
Tapp, and Mr. W. H. Harrison, were among the guests pre¬
sent. The ring-test was given to three of the observers,
through Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship; when her hands were
held, while she had no ring on her arms, a great welded iron
ring was strung on her arm. The spirits said that the iron
ring, and not the arm, was temporarily divided during the
threading operation ; it was noticed that each time the ring
gave a sound as if it had been struck, at the instant that it
came upon the arm. The dark circle manifestations at this
seance were of the usual description.
Sir William Topham has been invited by Captain James
to take the chair on the occasion of Mr. Henry D. Jencken,
M.R.I., reading his paper upon “ Inherited Mediumship” at
the Rooms of the Dalston Association on the 25th inst.
Experiments in Mesmerism.—The “Mesmeric Com¬
mittee” of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism meets for experimental work at 6.45 p.m. on Thursday,
18th inst., prior to the ordinary seance at 8.15 p.m. Active
measures are to be taken for carrying out the objects for which
the Committee was appointed, and experienced mesmerists are
requested to offer assistance. Communications should be
addressed to the Secretary, “ Mesmeric Committee,” 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, E. It is pleasing to see that the
Dalston Association intends to carry on such useful and inte¬
resting work.
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1875,
Birth.—On Wednesday, last week, the wife of Mr. C.
E. Williams, the celebrated medium, of a daughter.
Last Saturday the Daily Telegraph reprinted from The
Spiritualist the. most interesting portion of the article by Mr.
William Crookes, E.R.S.
A Stiritualistic soiree will be held at Bishop Auck¬
land, on Good Friday, as announced in an advertisement in
this issue.
The sum collected in aid of Mr. Wallace, the medium,
now amounts to £70 ; the sum total will be presented to him
in a purse worked by Mrs. Parkes.
An interesting description of seances with Messrs. Bas-
tian and Taylor, by Captain James, has been published in the
Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago).
We have received a letter from Mr. Serjeant Cox, too
late for this week, on the subject of Mr. Crookes’ recent
experiments; it will be published in this journal next Friday.
The Goswell Hall Spiritualistic meetings have been dis¬
continued ; Mr. Wallace delivered the closing one last Sunday.
They were carried on at a loss of time and money to Mr.
Haxby, and latterly have been thinly attended.
The publication of the continuation of Mr. Harrison’s
paper, read before the Dalston Association, is postponed till
next week, for want of space in this number. Correspondents
should make their letters shorter; several are not published
this week because they are too long.
The editor of the Evening Standard, in a good-tempered
leading article published last Monday, assumes the personal
experiences related by Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein, in
the last number of The Spiritualist, to be explainable on the
supposition that the two young ladies were making fun of the
prince, or that the sister who went to the ball took the second
glove by accident, so that the mesmeric influence was unin¬
tentionally concentrated upon her.
Mr. Morse in America.—Mr. J. J. Morse is engaged as
follows, during the remainder of the time he is in America;
Greenfield, Mass., during February; Bangor, Me., during
March; Lynn, Mass., in April; New Haven, Conn., during
May; Philadelphia, Pa., during June. Negotiations are pend¬
ing, which, when completed, will result in Mr. Morse con¬
cluding his visit with an engagement in New York City,
during July. Mr. Morse has confined all his engagements to
the Eastern section of the United States, so has not travelled
far into the interior.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—At .the ordinary monthly
session of the Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism on Thursday, last week, the following were
elected honorary members, viz.:—Mrs. F. and Miss M. B.
Showers, Mr. J. Bouse, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Bassett, Mr. and
Mrs. F. M. Parkes, Mr. and Mrs. W. Towns, Mrs. Catherine
Woodforde, Miss Lottie Fowler, and Mr. C. E. Williams. It
was also resolved to invite Messrs. Henry D. Jencken and Mr.
J. J. Morse to accept honorary membership. The arrangements
for the last Thursday evening in April next will comprise a
special seance with Mr. C. E. Williams. Captain James, of
Tottenham, was elected an ordinary member. Among the
members present at the ordinary weekly seance on Thursday
evening last week, were Miss M. Bosina Showers, Mr. W.
Standen, and Mr. John Bouse, well-known mediums. An ex¬
ceedingly interesting seance was consequently obtained, the
principal feature being the vocal effects produced through the
mediumship of Miss Showers. Mr. Standen and Mr. Bouse
both described spirit forms present in the rooms ; while Mr.
Standen was entranced and influenced to play upon the piano
under the alleged control of Handel. Mr. Bouse was also en¬
tranced, and spoke under influence. Mrs. T. Blyton stated
she could see cloud-like appearances enveloping Miss Showers.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Bllngsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Sfnallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
mHE
FIRE RE - INSURANCE
limited.
CORPORATION,
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made, and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2/250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon Iona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W.
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread-street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.O., and Huddersfield, Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam; and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Combany to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working:—
No.
Companies.
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
24 British  5,404,825
24 J United States  5,337,811
24 Continental    5,170,768
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insttrance Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17£
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Alliance of Vienna.,
Security 
Swiss    
Vienna  
Magdeburg  
Pannonia ..<  
Frankfurter 
Aachen   
Cologne    
Premium
Income.
£
86,636,
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
17*
33*
20
20
14
26§
13
41*
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
of the Corporation.
March 19, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either.
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, IV.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, On Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ANNIE EYA FAY will present her LIGHT AND
DARK SEANCES every evening, at 8 o’clock, at her residence,
21, Princes street, Regent-street. Admission 10s. Mrs. Fay will accept
occasional engagements, at 10 o’clock, p.m., at the Residences of the
Nobility and’ Gentry. Tickets for sale at all Agents.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 fears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CHRATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
R. J. J.
MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
JjyJiL is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vernon-place, Blpomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Threi
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
.Seawces (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.;, Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &e.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seande.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row;, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m. «
Fparkes, spiritealist photographer.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittinar. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
mHOS. WILKS; BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
JL CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application, The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
.(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedfordthill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buMings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blaekheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes1 Kensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fhz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. &., 6, Loughb6rough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, B., 9, Wflberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne' Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D„ 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-vilias, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W".
Honoi-ary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiriiualisi), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. MaximilianPerty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wiirzburg, Bavaria.)
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 19, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM; DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witbinthe last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., E.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. K. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Gr. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., H.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts^ Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the fable for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Vaitley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has,, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent, (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isiam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-. Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6i. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
- EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian\Academy of Science, <kc.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase' of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books anijl Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 1 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, principals.
THE PROGRESSIVE 'SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth | also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
