KeitIS'iebed as a NEW3:,A?Ea
Of ©SYC Ha'I.Ou; I
dai<
rmtncciei) iutilj cS>j3ni(uaiism m ^ku! luiiaut.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : ii, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG; 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347,-Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDAtPESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. ’BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and x8, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
. 'U.S.: 225,»Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
— — • - ■ — ■■ — -■ . ..       
Ko, 214.-—(Yol. IX.—No. 9.) LONDON : FRIDAYj SEPTEMBBE: 29j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentsiv
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
• ' Spiritualism in Newcastle :—An Address upon Some of
the Eeligious Aspects of Spiritualism ...  
The British Association at Glasgow:—Sir James Simp-
. son’s Bank-Note Experiment;  
'Soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists ... ...
^ A/Seawce with Dr. Slade ...    ...
" CorrespondenceThe Andrew Jackson Davis Testimo¬
nial—A s itting with Dr. Slade—North of England
Spiritualists’ Conference Committee—“Form”—
"Writing Mediumship—Spiritualism without Spirit¬
uality—Spiritualism and Scientific Men—Spiritualism
from a Theological Point of View—A Warning of
Death—The Education of Children—A Seance through
Mr. Colman’s Mediumship ... ... .r.  
• Turkish Atrocities:—Appeal tb Spiritualists  
The Position of American Strangers     
• Direct Spirit Writing   ... ; 
The Defence of Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons:—Preliminary
Meeting of Spiritualists ... ... ...    .i. ...
The Kmes Controversy on the Mediumship of Dr. Slade :—
Testimony of Professor Lankester, F.E.S.—Testimony
of Dr. H. B. Donkin—Col. Lane Fox, F.B.S. (President
of Anthropological Institute), on the Discussion at
Glasgow—Testimony of Dr. Carter Biake, Lecturer on
Comparative Anatomy, Westminster Hospital—Testi¬
mony of Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister at-Law—Testi¬
mony of Mr. J. A. Clarke—Testimony of Mr. A. K.
Wallace F.R.G.S.—Testimony of Mr. A. Joy, M.I.O.E.
—Testimony of Mr. G. 0. Joad—Mr. J. Park Harrison
on the Acceptance of Professor Barrett’s Paper—
Dr. H. B. Donkin on Professor Lankester’s Evidence
—Testimony of Mr. E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law—
Professor Lankester on the Value of Evidence by
other Observers—Dr. Slade’s Statement—The Presi¬
dent of the Anthropological Institute on the Position
of Scientific Men in Relation to Spiritualism—Testi¬
mony of Professor Barrett, F.R.S.E.—Joint Assertions
of Prof. Lankester and Dr. H. B. Donkin—Dr. Slade's
Reply to Some Points of Prof. Barrett’s Letter ... ...
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Dalston, 98; The Tower of
CalderJ 101; Mr. J. J. Morse in the North 
99
101
102
102
104
TEMPERANCE HALL, HORSEDGE STREET,
OLDHAM.
On Sunday, October 1, Miss LoNgbottom, of Halifax, will
give TWO ADDRESSES in the Trance State in the above
Hall at 2.30 and 6 p.m. Collection at the close of each address.
The presence and support of all friends is respectfully invited.
The day before the above (Saturday, September 30) there
Will be a TEA MEETING in the Meeting Room, Waterloo-
Btreet, and it is expected that Miss Longbottom will he present.
Arrangements are being made to secure the services of Mr.
Fitton and family who, no doubt, will add much enjoyment
to the meeting. Tea on the tables at 5 o’clock. Tickets, 9d.
each; admission after tea, 3d.
East London spiritual meetings.-
LECTTTRES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Oogman’u
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
East London spiritual meetings.
—Mr. Oogman’s usual Quarterly Tea Meeting will be
held on Sunday, October 1st, at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end.
Tea on table at five o’clock. Admission, Is.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, Sc.: Sundays, Healing, at Ham.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance al
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subseribers only.
established 1870.
In, alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Bar r is ter-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
V ioe-President—
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may he of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposa lof Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 6s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
MRS. BASSETT’S SEANCES.
Arrangements have been made with Mrs. Bassett to give
three Special Seances at the Rooms of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on
the last Thursday evenings in September, Ootoner, and
November. Tickets of admission—Members Is. 'each, or 2s.
for the series ; Non-members, Is. Gd. pach, or 3s. for the series.
To he obtained on application to the Hon. Secretary at the
Rooms of the Association.
Just published, a New Song.
*13 EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
JL\ flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3b., by the same composer. To he had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from. £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
.Music, 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, "W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pei iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
"Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
,10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is .open until 9 in the Evening.
- A Pamphlet with" full particularfe, maybe had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES—OCTOBER, 1876.
Mr. J. Ji Morse—
“ The Greater Human,” Sunday. Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
“ How does the Soul become Individualised? ” Monday,
Oct. 2, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. John Hare—
“ The Coming Time and the Coming Man," Sunday,
Oct. 8, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison—
“ Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell ” (continuation of
previous lecture), Sunday, Oct. 15, at 7 p.m.
Miss H. Longbottom (of Halifax)—
“ "Who Does it All, and How is it Done ?’’ Wednesday,
Oct. 18, at 7.30 p.m.
“Salvation according to Spiritualism,” Oct. 22, at 3
p.m.
“ God the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever,”
Sunday, Oct. 22, at 7 p.m.
Mr. John Walton—
“ The Lessons of Spiritualism,” Sunday, Oct. 29, at 7
p.m.
Admission free. A collection to defray expenses,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for October, 1876.
Wednesday, ith.—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
6,30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, Qth.—Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research. Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, lOtt.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, XZth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
,, Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30.
Monday, 16th.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, 16th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance, Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 20<A—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 25th.—Library Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, 26th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance, Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p m.
Friday, 21th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must he
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members are admitted to the Seances by ticket at a
nominal charge.  -
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Collen, Esq.
Andrew Clendinning, Esq.
William Tebb, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Tsham, Bart.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I,
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
Htnoiary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List of Contributors to 26th September, 1876.
£, s. d.
C. B., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. (forwarded
(jirect to Mr. Green)  50 0 0
J. N.T. Martheze     25 0 0
Charles Blackburn          20 0 0
William Tebb, Esq  10 10 0
“Nicodemus” ".    10 10 0
Thomas Grant Esq     :  10 10 0
Countess of Caithness       10 10 0
Alexander Caluer, Esq    5 0 0
P. R. Harrison, Esq     380
Mrs. Catherine Berry      2 2 0
N. Fahyan Dawe, Esq  2 2 0
James Bowman, Esq    2 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  110
Miss Ponder   110
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A  110
H. Collen, Fsq    1 0 0
R. Glendinning, Esq    1 0 0
William H. Harrison, Esq  10 0
A. O. Swinton     10 0
John Lamont, Esq       10 0
Miss Kislingbury      0 10 6
T. S       0 10 0
From a German  0 6 0
Per Mr. James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 15th Sepcember, 1876, viz.:—
£ s. d,
Miss Jane Jennings    0 6 0
Mr. W. Jennison    10 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture    2 4 5
N. V.      0 5 0
A Grateful One    10 0
M. A. B  0 10 0
F. M.       0 2 6
Mrs. Col. Boyd   0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10 0
Col. P. Greek   1 1 0
Mr. Beckett    0 2 0
Mr. R. Wortley  ' 1 10 0
J. F. C     0 10 0
9 9 11
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can he forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton
hon. sec.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 29, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.'W'est Brompton, S .>7.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas. Upper Norwood.
Everltt, Thomas, LUian-vllla, Holder s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W. a
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-aquare. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R,, Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddingtou-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W.. The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, • rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
raac., S E
Stra vbrdge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R.,18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomftroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-nouse, Leeds.
Wilson, D, H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrsy 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wlthall. Mins H., 1, The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, 'The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, SW.
Auditors,
Mr, J, H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pjaris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du lioi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-Jane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, Eastlndian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, 'Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmtlian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
J U.S.A.
M. F. Claralroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo.,NewTork, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-lane,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-str isse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary_M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardift'Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanoi.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion. Poetry. Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackerav. Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
-L GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as I
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition Price 8s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
J T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dipsomania-, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions In Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, -Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold P0BLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6}
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. O. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W
TO BOOK COLLECTORS.
CHARLES LOWE, NEW AND SECOND¬
HAND BOOKSELLER, 1 and 3, Ann-street, Bir¬
mingham, has always on sale upwards of 20,000 vols. of useful
Books in all branches of Literature. Catalogues gratis and
post free to any address. Libraries and small parcels of
books bought for cash.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
IO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTIC 4. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S-, X.V.Z. B.l G.A.S.is.,and hisassi-tant, Dr. Protoplaster
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little hook for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post fres, GJd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
%] tif nth tl
Vo^ujvie Kijme. Kumber N"i]HE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEWCASTLE.
AN ADDEESS UPON SOME OF THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday night the following address was delivered
to the Newcastle Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism, by
Mr. Wm. H. Harrison, at the old Freemasons’ Hall, New-
castle-on-Tyne. Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., presided, and the
hall was completely filled:—
Mr. President and Friends,—For many years you have
kept the light of demonstrated spiritual truth burning in
Newcastle, in the midst of popular prejudice and want of
knowledge. This has been done in the face of difficulties,
and not without individual self-sacrifice, yet accomplished
persistently and fearlessly; I therefore feel it to be an
honour to have the opportunity of addressing you for the
first time this evening, and that, too, under the presidency
of a gentleman who for so long a time has distinguished
himself by his incessant and efficient work in this most
righteous cause.
I scarcely know which of the innumerable branches of the
science and ethics of Spiritualism to select for consideration
this evening. At first the proceedings of the Anthropological
Department of the British Association, which I have just
attended at Glasgow, seemed to be a suitable subject. Mr.
Wallace spoke to me beforehand about addressing that
meeting, but for several reasons I felt no inclination so to do,
and chiefly because after incessant hard study of this subject
for eight or nine years, during which time I have attended
perhaps more than a thousand seances in order to gain
practical knowledge of the facts, unbiassed by prejudice or
by preconceived opinions, I felt it to be derogatory to the
great truths of this new science to attempt to give advanced
information to people who had not mastered, and might be
prepared to jest at, the A B 0 of the subject, and who
forme'd, in short, an incompetent tribunal. While those
who are engaged in proselytising are entitled to all respect,
my path has been in another direction—namely, that of
giving time and work to the examination of the phenomena,
and drawing from them no conclusions which the facts do
not irresistibly force; this method of acquiring knowledge is
slow and painful, but information thus gained is as sound
as the solid rock. Several airy speculations, intellectual
balloons floating in the atmosphere of Spiritualism, when
tested by the prosaic facts of the case, are found to have no
stability.
Among the themes which suggested themselves were the
surface disturbance of the British Association discussion,
and the coming prosecution of one of our mediums by young
Mr. Lankester (the son of the late coroner), who attended
two seances with Dr. Slade, and probably knows little or
nothing of the labours of older and more experienced
persons than himself, who have calmly investigated the
subject for years. But a more interesting theme for a well-
informed audience, is that of some of the religious aspects of
Spiritualism which are gradually coming to the front.
What moral influence has Spiritualism upon its votaries ?
In the first place, it breaks down the English flunkeyistic
reverence for authority when such authority is arbitrarily
and irresponsibly wielded. For instance, every day of the
week members of the general public obtain these psycholo¬
gical and physical phenomena in their own homes, and away
in a crash goes all respect for those local and national news¬
papers, for those preachers, and for those shining lights of
science, who imperatively tell all who trust in them that the
facts have no existence. Next, when it becomes palpable
that some of these authorities know the truth, and are afraid
to speak it, there is an amusing interest in watching the
dubious language they employ, apparently adverse to Spirit¬
ualism, yet to the critical reader or listener leaving a loop¬
hole whereby they can escape at a future time. Thus do
many of the most imposing external powers of the day show
clearly their internal rottenness ; the Spiritualist sees their
hollowness, and the consequent necessity of examining the
value of authority of every kind before relying upon it; thus
gradually in the pursuit of truth he loses “ much of that
parochial striving after gentility which is the characteristic
of the average Englishman.” Like the too-well-informed
keeper of a Chinese joss-house, he turns up the great gods
of the temple to show that they are but pasteboard and
wind, and like Professor Tait at Glasgow he is in a position
to exclaim, “Be these thy gods, 0 Israel ?”
Did Spiritualism do nothing more than show us beams in
the eyes of our neighbours, its mission would fall short of
that which we believe to be its value. One practical effect
it has is to utterly abolish both the fear of death and the
slightest belief in the doctrine of eternal punishment. I
never knew a Spiritualist who had had twenty-four months’
constant experience who feared to die, or who cared much
more for the arrival of the time for flinging off the
trammels of the flesh than he did for the extraction
of a tooth. Both processes may be painful for the time
being if nitrous oxide be not used, but the individual
knows that in the end he will be the gainer. Another point
was never so clearly demonstrated until Spiritualism came
into the world—namely, that a miracle does not necessarily
prove the truth of any doctrine. Although the phenomena of
Spiritualism are subject to psychological laws, and can be
classified, they are practically the same as the miracles of
theological records; yet when statements are made by the
powers who produce them, it by no means follows that the
revelations are true, for in reality the communications in
connection with physical manifestations are too frequently
the reverse. There is too much of a dragging of heaven
down to earth in the religious aspect of that class of mani¬
festations, and too little of the raising of earth to heaven.
The revelations through trance*, clairvoyance, and the non¬
physical descriptions of mediumship, are in general of a
higher order, but are not free from error, nor, in some cases,
from untruth; some of the revelations are accurate and clear,
others are symbolical, and calculated to unintentionally mis¬
lead superficial listeners; hence, there are dangers to face,
difficulties to overcome. Thus, Spiritualism does not sup¬
plant one kind of authority by another, but tends greatly to
promote self-reliance. A man thus thrown upon himself
thinks deeply and seriously on religious subjects, the only
way of making a real advance, and the very fact of his
having to battle with the waves strengthens his mental and
moral powers, and gradually gives him an advantage over
those who are quietly sleeping upon the quicksands of mis¬
used authority. In the Malayan Archipelago it has been
noticed that, the noblest of the savages always take possession
of the sea coast, and adventure upon the deep waters, whilst
inland, in the hill fastnesses, a more cowardly and less
intelligent population is frequently to be found. The law
of the conservation of energy holds good in the world of
mind as in the world of physics ; the man who exerts
mental energy must of necessity be in a better condition
than he who exerts none at all, all other conditions being
equal, and herein lies the value of difficulties, the beneficence
of pain, the “ sweet uses of adversity.”
There is a standard within every man superior both to
“ modern miracles,” as they have been called, and to trance
revelations ; it is that consciousness, that inner sense of
truth, that judgment-bar, to which he submits all these
influences from without, accepting some and rejecting others.
Trance mediums have the faculty of ideality largely de¬
veloped ; all kinds of ideas—good, bad, and indifferent—
come from them in profusion. Thoughtful observers have a
98
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 29, 1876.
greater power than they have of separating the chaff from
the wheat, and of putting what is good into practice. And
it i§ well for humanity that this is the case, otherwise we
should in time all become helpless instruments in the hands
of spirits of all kinds; we should be driven hither and
thither by varying gusts of passion and opinion, and our
individuality and independence of character would be to a
considerable extent blotted out. But compensation exists
in every state of human existence; for every wrong there is
a coming right, for every disability a coming advantage.
These truths are not practically believed by the materialists
inside and outside the churches, nor can they be till the
reality of a life beyond the grave is brought home to them
by the unanswerable demonstrations of Spiritualism. Until
such demonstration is realised, how cold are the consolations
of theology. And it has always been so, whatever the
Church, when the spiritual power has died out, leaving but
the material husk. It was so in the decline of pagan
religions in the olden time :—
O’er her husband sat Tone bending—
Marble-]ike and marble-hued he lay;
Underneath her raven locks descending,
Paler seemed his face, and ashen grey ;
And so white his brow,
White and cold as snow—
“Husband !—gods! his soul has passed away.”
liaise ye up the pile with gloomy shadow—
Heap it with the mournful cypress bough !—
And they raised the pile upon the meadow,
And they heaped the mournful cypress too ;
And they laid the dead
On his funeral bed,
And they kindled up the flames below.
Night again was come ; but oh, how lonely
To the mourner did that night appear!
Peace nor rest it brought, but sorrow only,
Yain repinings and unwonted fear.
Dimly burned the lamp—
Chill the air and damp—
And the winds without were moaning drear.
And in modern times, and in Christian countries, when by
the side of the grave the earth falls upon the coffin of the
loved one, and the cry arises of u Earth to earth, ashes to
ashes, dust to dust,” how coldly fall the words of the
speaker, how unreal seem the pictures of life after death.
But when at the spirit circle the departed wife of Mr. Liver¬
more, the New York banker, appeared to him radiant with life,
and with more than human beauty, came to him with joy in
her face, and the bright light of happiness in her eyes—came
to him with flowers from the land beyond the tomb, and
wrote long messages to him before his eyes in her well-
known handwriting, that he might be sure afterwards that it
was not a mere heavenly vision too bright for earth,—when
such a revisitation as that took place, where was the gloomy
influence of the voice of the conventional preacher ? where the
chilling effects of all the gloomy paraphernalia of death ?
and where—above all these—was the inconsolable grief for
the loss of the loved one gone before ? What, think you, is
the amount of responsibility of those authorities in our land
who exert all the temporary influence they possess to
keep back from mankind such a revelation and consolation
as this ?
The facts of Spiritualism are now beginning to be gene¬
rally admitted, and will not be much longer questioned by
the public; and as Mr. Charles Carleton Massey has said,
the battle will soon begin over the question, “ What is the
intelligence ? ” The intelligence, I think, varies in different
cases. Sometimes much of it comes unconsciously from the
medium, probably under the stimulus of an unseen power;
but there is a residuum, difficult to attempt to explain except
on the Spiritual theory. Then the additional question arises,
“ What spirits ? ” Here, again, I think, varying answers
may be true as applied to particular examples, but again is
there a residuum of cases ponderously difficult of explanation
except upon the theory of the auction of the spirits of the
departed.
The difficulties besetting the study of Spiritualism exercise
a religious influence not seen at the moment by those who
surmount them, but who can realise the advance they have
made when they compare their present knowledge of spiritual
truth with that which was their portion several years pre-
I! viously. The facts at the root of the educational process are
I now being critically examined in a scientific spirit, but are
j not new. As one of our trance speakers has said :—
The truth of the present is but the truth of the past,
| But each phase is greater, and grander, and mightier than the last;
] The past is ever prophetic of that which is yet to be,
And God reveals His glory by slow and distinct degree.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.
SIB JAMES SIMPSON’S BANK-NOTE EXPEBIMENT.
The following letter relating to a statement made at the
| British Association at Glasgow is of public interest:—
H Dear Mr. Harrison,—May I write to you in order, most
| emphatically) to deny that my husband, the late Dr. Gregory,
i ever alleged that “nothing should prevent a clairvoyante from
I telling the number of Sir James Simpson’s note.” On the
| contrary, he always declaimed against the lowness of the
! motive given—the obtaining the £500. The sordid motive
I held out to the clairvoyante, the thought probably would
I prevent the medium from seeing truly what the note con-
| tained, and so it turned out. In this way he always ac-
I counted for the failure of Sir James Simpson’s experiment;
| at the same time he affirmed that the discovery was quite
| possible under good surrounding conditions. I write to you
I from knowledge, as I remember well the time when the sub-
I ject was under discussion. You are at liberty to make any
i use you may think proper of this statement on my part.
“ Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
I “ Quarley Rectory, Andover.”
SOIREE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Now that the dark evenings are returning, and Spirit-
I ualists are finding their way back to town, the monthly
j soirees of the National Association will be resumed, and the
| first will be held next Wednesday, at 38, Great Russel 1-
I street. A large gathering is expected, the more especially
| as one of the original objects of the meeting was to do
j honour to Dr. Slade and the American friends connected
| with him, for the good work he has done in England and
America in the cause of Spiritualism. The present pro-
j secution of him, the result of brief observation, will in-
] crease the sympathy tenfold. Mr. Alexander Oalder, presi-
I dent of the National Association of Spiritualists, who has
| just been examining the condition of Spiritualism in Paris,
| will probably have some interesting information to com-
| municate. The Misses Withall have undertaken the musical
! arrangements, which are therefore sure to be of high quality,
| and Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne), who, with the assistance
| of M. Gounod, trained the celebrated Gounod, or Albert Hall
| choir, has kindly promised to sing on the occasion. Long
! speeches are never made at these meetings, but the prosecu-
| tion of Dr. Slade will, we suppose, give rise to half an hour’s
] discussion, and what the remarks may lack in length will no
| doubt be compensated for by resultant action.
| Spiritualism: in Dalston.—On Thursday evening, the 14th instant,
i the ordinary monthly session of the Council of the Dalston Association of
| Inquirers into Spiritualism, was held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
under the presidency of Mr. John Rouse. The other members of council
present were Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mrs. Amelia Comer, Mr. Jonathan
| Tozeland, and Mrs. M. Wood. The minutes of the last meeting were read
| and confirmed. Letters of general interest, received since, were read from
I Messrs. G. F. Tilby, and W. O. Drake, joint secretaries to the “ Maryle-
| bone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,” and Mr. William James
i Colville, of Brighton. Presentations, received since last meeting, were
i laid upon the table, and a cordial vote of thanks accorded to the donors,
Professor L. N. Fowler, and Mr. J. N. T. Martheze. Notices of resignation
of membership were submitted from Captain James, Messrs. John Fyvil,
Charles Lee, and Henry Sayer, which were “ accepted with regret.” Mr.
! R. Pomeroy Tredwen was unanimously re-elected as the representative of
the Association, to be ex-officio a member of the Council of the “ British
| National Association of Spiritualists.” An offer to advertise the arrange-
! mentsof the “British National Association of Spiritualists” in the prospectus
I was accepted, and the honorary secretary instructed to obtain the usual
I supply, corrected to date. Inquiry was made by Mr. Thomas Blyton, as to
the progress of the “Mesmeric’.’ and “Spiritual Photographic” committees.
No report. The honorary secretary was authorised to arrange with Mrs.
Bassett for a series of special stances on the last Thursday evenings in
September, October, and November. A copy was submitted of a circular
letter and list of contributors to the Andrew Jackson Davis Testimonial
Fund (English committee), and permission was granted to the honorary
secretary of the committee to bring the circular before the notice of the
i members of the Association.
Sept. 29, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
A SEANCE WITH DE. SLADE.
The following is one of the letters sent to the Times last week, but
not published:—
To the Editor of 11 The Times.'1'
Sir,—May I ask your permission to state, respecting a Spiritualism,”
that for some years I have determined to fathom the truth or falsity
of this subject, and have given much money to various people, who
have charge of seances, to expose all dishonest mediums. That is the
reason why, at Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury, we have adopted a
cabinet and other apparatus of our own, by which our “ Investigating
Committee ” can test and report our sittings weekly to the public.
I am glad you have so kindly allowed the ventilation of this subject.
There is one point, however, we ought not to condemn in any medium
—namely, if he possesses, in his organisation, some cause of power we
are ignorant of, then we should not treat or look upon him or her as
an impostor.
Six weeks ago I held both Dr. Slade’s hands ; my daughter’s hand¬
kerchief was snatched from her lap (she was sitting next tome), and it
was tied into half-a-dozen knots under the table; then a visible
materialised hand came up in front of my waistcoat, placed the hand¬
kerchief on the table, and the hand instantly vanished. No feet
could do this, nor no hands, for I had hold of bis all the time, as I
reported in The Spiritualist newspaper, 21st July, 1876, with other
experiences. In private families I know many mediums of similar
wonderful power ; and I only hope, if any impostors do come, we shall j
show them up to the world, for my aim is to expose dishonesty, or to i j
substantiate this new force, if true.—Yours, &c., I j
Charles Blackburn. [5
Parkfield, near Manchester, Sept. 23rd, 1876. |(
P.S.—I forgot to state about slate writing, that, at Dr. Slade’s, I j)
cleaned both sides of his slate, whilst he bit a crumb off a long piece j )
of pencil, and put it on the table. The slate covered the crumb of I [
pencil, and as soon as he touched one corner of the slate with his/~H
right hand (his left being held by myself and another visitor), I could
hear the pencil scratching away for ten minutes. Slade was talking
and laughing all the time. When the writing ceased, we found it to
be nothing but Greek ; nor does Dr. Slade know a single word of it,
which proves that there is some other intelligent and unseen force at
work besides his own. I was allowed to take that slate away, and it
is now to be seen at the Association’s Eooms, with the Greek writing
on it.—C. B.
©omsponuence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically oppose
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS TESTIMONIAL.
Sir,—I venture to request the favour of a few lines in your widely
circulated columns to enlist the sympathy of English Spiritualists on
behalf of the well-merited tribute now being raised in America, to mark
the appreciation of A. J. Davis’ life-long services in the cause of
Spiritualism.
The labours of Andrew Jackson Davis, as one of the world’s most
famous mediums, have done much to advance the philosophy of Spirit¬
ualism ; and inasmuch that his medial writings are well and favour¬
ably known to English readers, I hope they will one and all contribute
according to their ability, so that the result may show a true apprecia¬
tion of the philosophical works obtained through the instrumentality of
his mediumship.
A list of contributions already received is published in your advertising
columns, and further subscriptions are earnestly solicited. Copies of a
circular letter, and list of contributions received, can he obtained for
distribution on application to me. Thomas Blyton,
Hon. Sec. to the English Committee.
72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., 12th Sept., 1876.
A SITTING WITH DR. SLADE.
To the Editor of the il Norwood News."
Sir,—The narrative of my personal seeings and hearings will, to
many, be interesting.
Dr. Slade and I sat on chairs at an ordinary parlour table. An
ordinary school slate was on it, which he took up, gave to me, and I
passed over it a wetted sponge, so that no writing could be on it. He
then placed on it a piece of slate pencil, about the size of a corn grain,
put both under the table with one hand, and at once I heard writing.
On the sound ceasing the slate was brought up, and on it were nine or
ten lines of a message, closely, clearly written, and correctly punctuated.
That writing was sponged out, and the corn grain piece of slate pencil
was placed on the table, and the slate placed over it, Dr. Slade’s hand
on the slate, and my hand on his. At once I heard the writing sound as
before, and again a message, or rather a kindly-worded sentence to me
was found clearly written.
I was then frequently touched with great rapidity on different parts
of the legs, my feet being at the time on Dr. Slade’s feet, and my hands
on his hands. A vacant chair at the further end of the table moved,
and then rose in the air, and, in answer to a question, it again rose, and
bowed towards us. Of course no ordinary human being was near
it; no one was in the room but Dr. Slade and I. I asked, “ Will
any of our spirit friends play a tune on an accordion, as I have heard
in years gone by ? ” Dr. Slade at once rose, brought his accordion to
the table we were sitting at, held it by the valve end, and at once there
was played the Scotch song, “ Auld Lang Syne,” then “ Home, Sweet
Home.” They were well and correctly played. My feet at the time
were on his feet, and my hand on his disengaged hand on the table. I
saw the instrument moving, I heard the musical sounds, but my eyes
were too opaque to see the ghost who had so much musical talent in
him, and who so cleverly fingered the keys.
Conversation was then carried on for a minute or two, and then the
sitting was closed. Of course the room was lighted, as it was about one
o’clock in the day, and no effort of any kind was made to conceal or
control the phenomena. J. Enmore Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
(i NORTH OF ENGLAND SPIRITUALISTS’ CONFERENCE COMMITTEE. '
| Sir,—The regular quarterly conference of the above body will be
U held in the Freemasons’ Hall, Weirs-court, Newcastle-on-Tyne, on
j| Sunday, October 1st, at 10.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. The business to
) i • consist of—in the morning, the receiving the treasurer’s and secretary’s
(j reports, and discussion thereon. Afternoon, the re-election of the
I general and xecutive committees for the ensuing quarter. A public
)| tea will be provided at 4.30 p.m. Tickets one shilling each. The
ii friends of the district are cordially invited.
J. J. Morse, Hon. Sec.
70, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
“form.”
Sir,—My friend, Mr. H. G. Atkinson, always thinks clearly, but
I am not to be blamed if my method of metaphysic is not so advanced
as his own ; in fact, there is no common ground between us. I am
unable to agree with him in the terminology which should abolish
u metempirical” conceptions, and think that much of the opposition
which has been made to Spiritualism has been caused by an exaggera¬
tion of the Baconian philosophy almost to the extent of “ Positivism.”
The reaction has now set in. We have Professor Huxley saying
that, of all the subjects about which nonsense has been written,
perhaps the Baconian philosophy is the greatest; and, taking an opposite
pole of thought, which commends itself more to my own leanings, we
have Dr. Laing’s excellent criticism of the “inductive” method, which
I can heartily commend to Mr. Atkinson. My ideas of “form” are —
or at least I mean them to be—those of Aristotle, and consequently of
the mediaeval “ schoolmen,” amongst whom Aquinas stands first.
; They were good enough for the thinkers of at least eleven hundred
(I years, and quite clear enough for me. Mr. Atkinson will no doubt
! perceive that I recognise in “form” something different from,
jj “matter” or “substance.” If the minds of men would be influenced
(i to abrogate the Baconism of the last two centuries, which has been
) | tacitly ignored in Italy and Germany, there would be perhaps less
j indisposition to admit the fact that the “form” of a medium may
j and is often seen and felt outside the bounds of his own body. But
(i I shall not be led to accept a Platonic definition of “ form ” as
H binding on one who is following an Epicurean method,
i , ' C. Carter Blake.
WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
jl Sir,—Some years ago, to prove that spirits sometimes wrote sound
>! sense, I published anonymously an essay which my late friend, Mr.
j| G. B. Pritchard, had dashed off involuntarily ; and now, on recently
J looking over his MSS., lhave selected, with the sanction of his widow,
>j the following, which is signed (as were all his writings) by the sup-
jl posed individual spirit; but, as the reader is only concerned with the
11 sentiment, advice, or philosophy, which he may find in the language
>1 used, it matters not who claims to be the spirit writer. Let it be
j understood that Mr. Pritchard was an active and intelligent man of
ii business, a lawyer by profession, and therefore not open to the charge
j| of imposture, or self-delusion. He could generally obtain, by putting
,1 bis hand to paper, a spirit message of some kind. These messages
i were directed to various friends, and many to himself. Though a very
’I kindly man, he was somewhat irascible, and very decided in his
il opinions. Those addressed to himself, from the spirit of a near rela-
ll tive, were frequently opposed to his own views, and couched in affec-
[j tionate remonstrance against his expressed intentions, and entreating
11 him to be patient, and to view matters more calmly, which he generally
! | obeyed, with decided advantage to himself.
| Mr. Pritchard always said he knew when a spirit wanted him to
j write by a sort of electric action from his elbow to the tips of the
j fingers of his right hand. Like most spirit writing, it was done
■I rapidly, and the words and sentences never needed correction.
The following was taken by me promiscuously from his papers. It
i was addressed to his aunt. If approved, I will send from time to time
other of his spirit messages :—
“ Sunday, September 28th, 1862.
“When many believe they are failing in their duties, they really are
performing them in a way that spirits above the atmosphere of
mortal affairs behold with the utmost approval; more will be finally
gathered into the fold than appear worthy in the opinion of men. Can
vile, low, brutal cabals find within the reach of their influence men
fit to judge of the internal states and ever-varying conditions of their
fellows, while the all-seeing eye discerns the numberless motives, cir¬
cumstances, and affections of each individual, controls, create-s, and
directs all things to one end, the salvation of his soul; his fellows
judge him by the small, narrow rule that originates only in their own
contracted brain. Behold, then, how mankind in myriads are con¬
signed to a relentless fate; let, then, the timid, the doubter, the
waverer, take heart, considering that his smallest effort for the end of
eternal life is increased, improved, and guarded by the Almighty
Champion for his salvation. Cast away your gloomy forebodings,
O child of light, care for your immortal destiny is a proof of its
security, and those above who view with angels’ eyes each bright state
succeeding its numerous predecessors, sing their hallelujahs to the
Great Redeemer for all His mighty acts, for the chastened spirit that,
has a mighty destiny in the realms above; while the fleeting years
of her long life have left their traces on the image of her soul, the
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 29, 1876.
ministers of peace are crowning each victory obtained in the theatre
of mortality with its spiritual crown. As the sand runs out the spirit
shines brighter to the vision of the angelic choirs that attend on the
workman of the new creation now hastening to its sabbath ; wait not in
impatience for the advent, while each sun rises and sets on earth he
speeds you in his chariot to the sphere of celestial light; wait without
anxiety disturbing the even tenor of your way, and you will even here
catch the rays of that day that will usher you into your eternal
home.” Benj. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Sept., 1876.
SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITUALITY.
Sir,—I am sorry that I cannot allow Miss Kislingbury to escape
under the plea of defective female education. It is not any special
application of her words which makes me protest against them ; but
their general sense as previously understood by me, and now explained
by her more clearly.
If it be true that physics are the “leading feature” of our Spirit¬
ualism, and morality that of the reincarnationists ; if it be true that
they have that “ which acts upon and elevates the moral sense,” and
that we have it not, the fact is a humiliating one for us, and our
Spiritualism worthless compared to theirs.
But I do not believe that this is so ; I think that English Spirit¬
ualism leads to a “belief which acts upon and elevates the moral
sense,” at least as much as the belief in reincarnation can do, and that
morality is and ought to be the “ leading feature” of our Spiritualism,
at least as much as it is that of the Spiritists, as they call themselves.
Of course the effect upon each individual depends in both cases upon
his personal capacity for spirituality, and the consequent spirit in
which he pursues his study of the subject. A man may be profoundly
versed in all the facts of Spiritualism, and yet remain a very bad man
(though probably not quite so bad as he was before), but I imagine that
a man may also accept the Spiritist, or any other dogmas, with as little
effect upon his morality.
I also think it a mistake to speak of the latter as an “ opposite
school” to ours. We are not anti but won-reincarnationists, prepared
to accept anything that can be proved true. We are not in any sense
opposed to them. They have adopted a dogma which has nothing
whatever to do with the principles or essence of Spiritualism proper,
any more than Christianity has, though both are branches of Spirit¬
ualism. These two may be in some respects opposite to one another ;
but we, who neither adopt nor reject any dogma, except the belief in
spirit communion, which is common to all Spiritualists, cannot be
called opposite to any one or other sect which does adopt extraneous
dogmas.
1 agree entirely with every word written by “ P.” on this subject.-—
Yours faithfully, A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, 18th September.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENTIFIC MEN.
Sir,—Kindly permit a little space that I may express a few opinions
in reference to the points raised in The Spiritualist respecting Dr.
Slade’s mediumship.
First, I have to express my entire lack of sympathy with the appeals
and efforts made to induce leaders of scientific thought to witness the
phenomena which transpire at Dr. Slade’s seances. In my opinion it is an
exhibition, in a degree, of moral and intellectual weakness, to solicit the
aristocrats of science to attend on our reliable mediums, that they may
pronounce both upon the facts and upon our sanity. I am aware that
the writers of those appeals possess the courage of their convictions, but
it is the soundness of their policy I call in question. The facts of
Spiritualism are royal in their degree and power, and do not need the
tardy assent to their existence of unwilling students, whose sympathies
lie in other directions. Disinterested disciples of truth stand not upon
the asking, but are themselves first in the search. On the other hand,
is it reasonable to expect that men who have won the highest positions
in science and public favour, will jeopardise their present usefulness
and power by an investigation into so unpopular and unprofitable a
study as that of Spiritualistic phenomena ? Spiritualism is educating,
and will continue to educate, its own men of science, as it increases in
strength and power, until the intellectual world will be forced to ac¬
knowledge the existence and potency of this new school of psychology.
Till then we can well afford, with our golden harvest of facts, to wait
with exemplary patience. Therefore let none of the leaders of our
ever-increasing army crave for a favour when better things can be
earned by self-sacrifice and hard fighting, for we are well assured, one
and all, that the heat of the battle is yet to the fore.
Secondly, I am anxious to criticise Mr. C. C. Massey’s letter dealing
with the question, “What is the intelligence?” and to have a passing
remark on the article by Dr. C. Carter Blake touching the same. I
must first state that asking the question, “ What is the intelligence ? ” is
in one aspect of the matter tantamount to the query, “ What is intelli¬
gence ? ” an answer to which has puzzled and confounded the mightiest
intellects in all ages of the world. The position would (in my opinion)
be better stated by the question, “What originates the intelligence?”
In grappling with the theories of psychic force and unconscious cere¬
bration, Mr. Massey makes the remark, “ but we have not yet got clear
of Dr. Carpenter.” This would imply that we have been, and are still
to some extent, clogged with Dr. Carpenter’s borrowed theory of un¬
conscious cerebration. The existence of this entanglement I deny.
Unconscious cerebration is but one of many theories that have not a
single well-attested fact to support them, but what is better explained
by the spirit theory. The wise rule governing the value of theories is
the Baconian one of clearly explaining the greatest number of facts.
Now, as Dr. Carpenter’s theory will not satisfactorily explain the
simplest facts in Spiritualism, it is out of court, and valueless until
|j it can furnish evidence as weighty and as clear as that advanced to
(| support the spirit theory. The same argument will also meet the
(| psychic force theory advocated by Serjeant Cox.
/ i But what originates the intelligence in the slate writings, and what
j are the conditions surrounding the manifestation of intelligence from
| the human being in the body ? By what process does the intelligence
(| of man express itself in caligraphy ? Is it not by controlling sublimated
ji matter, and down, through various gradations of refined substance, till
j the ponderable arm of flesh is moved, that it is possible for man to
(! express his thoughts in external symbols ? That intelligence guides the
11 pencil at Dr. Slade’s stances none can deny, and the only connection
[ | between Dr. Slade’s intelligence and the pencil is in the contact of his
ijj hand with the slate. Is it to be supposed that a power or substance
j j goes out from his organism, seizing a portion of his intelligence also, to
I) | consummate the phenomenon, simply because the writing ceases when
j|j contact is broken, and commences again when readjusted? If so, what
| (j will that profit them when they consider the fact of a hand descending
IJi upon the table, and picking up a pencil and writing, as instanced by
i/j Mr. Crookes? Also, in D. D. Home’s Incidents of my Life, where the
if! materialised hand wrote in the handwriting of a deceased person.
Dr. Carter Blake ventures to think that “ the truth may lie between
jjj the spiritual and the physical.” But I respectfully assert that the
I j origin of intelligent action can never rest on such a speculative basis.
i§ Intelligent action is manifested intelligence. The question, of course,
|(! arises, “Whose intelligence?” Is it the medium unconsciously but
j (| intelligently operating on the pencil, when the physical conditions for
i/j such an act are non-existent? Or is it an invisible human being, with
i i higher power over matter ? Taken in connection with the whole range
j (j of Spiritualistic phenomena, the latter must be answered in the
j j! affirmative.
ijj The ancient metaphysicians do not give scientifically-tested pheno-
m mena as the foundation for their ingenious philosophies. Ancient
j |j schools of theosophy and psychology have only the value of suggestion
jjj to this hard matter-of-fact age of experiment.
j (j Duplication of form (and form must be of substance), possessing
i ji intelligence without an invisible disembodied human spirit to control it,
i j j has never received substantial proof.
|[j Dr. Carter Blake had better not rely too much upon his ancient
jjj spectacles, but try the facts of Spiritualism in the crucible of his trained
j j intellect,; experiment decides^the fate of all theories, and no educated
jjj Spiritualist fears the result.
j j i The spirit theory is the only theory that can explain all the facts, and
jjj it stands enshrined in the hearts and intellects of thousands of our best
j j i minds; reigning supreme amid every assault by the force of its thorough
j j! ascendancy over every scientific obstacle, and securely guarded by the
j j triple wall of searching investigation, open criticism, and common
j j j sense. J. W. Mahony.
j j j Birmingham.
SPIRITUALISM FROM A THEOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW.
Sir,—As a constant reader of your paper for the past three years, and
as one who has given a good share of time and thought to the subject
which that paper sets forth, will you permit me to submit the following
for your consideration, and that of your numerous readers ?
In your issue of September 1st appear two letters which bear very
pertinently upon aspects of the question which I must confess appear to
me as points of paramount importance. The first is that one by
“Another M.A. of Oxford” bearing upon the theological aspect of the
question. Now this intelligent letter can only have weight with those
who hold the plenary inspiration of the Bible—those who accept that
within the two boards of the Book they have all truth, nothing but
truth, and that which shall guide them into all truth. To all such, to
those who take it that all the investigations of the human intellect on
scientific subjects, and the conclusions of human reason upon such moral
questions as finite sins deserving infinite vengeance; to all such, I say
that hold these questions to be settled by the dictum of the Scriptures,
even if such go contrary to the conclusions of the Divine gift of reason,
the letter on page 56 must have great weight.
But I would, sir, more especially direct my remarks to the communi¬
cation from Mr. O’Sullivan on page 58. The strong point urged in that
letter is that Mme. R knew nothing of Hebrew, but that in the pre¬
sence of a certain Hebrew professor messages came in that ancient
language.
In the last paragraph but one your correspondent writes thus: “ I
defy the most hostile incredulity to raise now a tolerable pretext of a
logical or reasonable cavil against it.”
I by no means desire to be viewed as a mere caviller against the
experience which Mr. O’Sullivan kindly places before us, but to him and
all others interested in this question I would submit the following.
These intelligences, be they whom they may, have doubtlessly the
gift of thought-reading. It is well known that even in the lower physical
manifestations, such as table-tilting, they can answer mental questions.
Now, if thoughts can be read, as they can, how reasonable it is to
suppose that any facts within the thought of any person in the circle,
any acquaintance with a language, or any knowledge of facts within the
mind of any member of the circle, may and will come within the cog¬
nisance of the communicating intelligence. Accepting this, and remem¬
bering also that the moral status of the disembodied is in some cases so
low that they scruple not to falsify, and to appear under false semb¬
lance, then we may have facts given from the minds of some sitter,
which he may take to be conclusive of the presence of some loved one,
who along with him knew the facts given.
But if that other aware of these specific facts be one who has become
acquainted with such facts, not by collateral experience with the sitter,
but by thought-reading of that within the sitter’s mind, and if, moreover,
that one be unscrupulous (both of which premises come within the
Sept. 29, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
syllogism) then a logical question at once arises against Mr. O’Sullivan’s ]'
conclusion. The second sentence in his second paragraph would have ji
given conclusive proof.
I thank you for your admission (as on page 56) of contrary opinions. !,
W. E. Simpson. $
Harrogate.   j
A WARNING OF DEATH. |j
Sir,—The story of the weird cry heard by Dr. Delitsch as he was I j
passing near the residence of his friend Mr. Smith, who had died two j j
or three hours before at Aleppo, may give additional interest at the i (
present moment to a closely analogous experience of a friend of mine, a H
lady whose word I would trust as I would the evidence of my own ears, jil
I give it as I took it down from her mouth a few months ago, but it is a 1
good many years since I first heard it from her.
“In the autumn of 1854 or 1855, my intimate friend Mrs. E was \\
lying dangerously ill near Windsor, when I received a letter one Friday ji
from her daughters, who had been invited to a marriage in London, |
saying that, as their mother was a little better, they thought they might j'
come up to the marriage on Tuesday if I could give them a bed. On the
Saturday night I went to bed at my usual hour, twelve o’clock, but did not
go to sleep for some time, when I was suddenly startled by three sets of
three extraordinary loud knocks, like strokes of a hammer on an empty j
box, at my bed-head, followed immediately by a long, loud cry of a 1
woman’s voice, which seemed to die away in the distance. I called my j
maid instantly, and begged her to look out of the window and see if j
there was any one in the street. She opened the shutters, threw up the
window, and said there was no one—that it was quite late, and I must j
have been dreaming. I said, “No, it had not yet struck one,” and sent
her to look at the clock. She returned and said it wanted ten minutes
to one. I said the noise must have come from the room adjoining mine
in the next house. She said the house was empty, but this I could not !
believe, so I sent her early on Sunday morning to see. She came back, i
saying the windows were all shut, and she had knocked for some time in
vain. On the following morning I sent her to the person who had i
charge of the house, thinking that somebody must have slept in it on j
Saturday night. The person in charge said that this could not have j
been the case, as she had the key, but she went to look, and told me no j
one could possibly have got in. In a very few hours afterwards I had a j
letter from Miss E , to tell me that her mother had got suddenly
worse on Saturday, and had died in the course of the night. Some time
subsequently I had an opportunity of seeing the nurse who attended her, j
and she told me that Mrs. E  had died at exactly a quarter before
one on Sunday morning, uttering a loud cry at the moment of death.
She had just been giving her a cup of beef tea, and had replaced it on I
the mantelpiece, where there was a clock on which she observed the
hour. Mrs. E  had been a very intimate friend of mine, and I
know that I was much in her thoughts.” H. Wedgwood. |
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
Sir,—For three months after they first come I do not trouble either '
the children or myself by telling them to join the exercises at all. I .
allow them to unpick rags, and am satisfied with that. After three p
months I make them look at me, and make them utter some kind of j!
sound in their turn. I am very particular about their paying attention j<
to me and looking at me the instant their turn comes. I divide them into j <
three lines or groups, and look at each as their turn comes. This soon I
teaches instinctive regularity, ready breathing, and ready production I
of sound. I, who am teaching them, feel as if they were so many j
organ pipes, which obey the sound I wish them to give, without my j
fingers having to touch the keys. Musical notes will be added to this ij
little treatise on education, when it will be republished as a complete |
and separate work, and may then prove of some value. I teach the i)
children the first series of exercises with their mouths shut—in other !
words, I teach them to hum. I generally practise them from e seventh |
line to e tenth space. For the fun of it we sometimes squeel up to G h
and a octave beyond the eleventh line ; and when we do this the j<
exercise takes double the time. This I rarely do, and then only for
the sake of gauging the compass of the voices of children on an L
average. I have heard the children, while they are playing, and quite p
unconsciously, singing up to two octaves beyond f sharp on the eleventh ]
line. I have heard one of the children, which has the finest natural L
voice, sing the word “napkin” on A natural, two octaves higher than ('
A on the eighth space.
The first exercise of humming finished, I teach them to intone the p
English alphabet, on G eighth line, one after the other, in time, and '
get them to pronounce A first. I impress upon them what is wrong in L
the manner of pronouncing the A. I draw their attention not so ji
much to how it sAomW be pronounced, as to the way it should wo# be 1
pronounced. English people often have a very strange way of pro- (
nouncing A. As I have sufficiently explained this in a little book I |
have written, called “ Hints on Pronunciation,” I will not enlarge on '
the subject again. I find I can get a little child as young as twenty- j,
one months old to understand how to intone and to pronounce in |
time, and, before the second birthday has been attained, to intone r
phrases very tidily. I am sure that teaching a child neat and careful |i
pronunciation lays the foundation stone of neat and careful qualities j
in their characters generally. There are so many details in the pro- |
nunciation of a single letter. Every child hears how great a difference
there is in the way Grannie, Tommie, or Katie, &c., &c., pronounce
the A ; there is a difference, an improvement, every day, and it is
always something for the children to look out for. While the alphabet
is being intoned, the unpicking of the rags is stopped, and the children
are taught to keep their eyes on me ; I beat the time audibly with a
large knitting pin, or the butt end, of a little whip, on the piano, and
each child in its turn has to respond with the precision of an automaton I
to the regular rap of the little whip. I believe this system of teaching
would cure every kind of stammer; it insures precision and readiness,
it cures nervousness, and keeps up steadily a system of rhythm.
Rhythm is so important a thing, it should become second nature in all
musicians. It is far more indispensable than either tune or tone.
Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistock Square.
A SEANCE THROUGH MR. COLMAN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I send you a brief account of the manifestations that I witnessed
at a daylight stance, on the 31st of August, in case you may think it
worth publishing. Four persons were present; the lady of the house,
my wife, myself, and Mr. Arthur Colman (medium).
At five o’clock in the afternoon, the room was darkened, till we could
only just see objects in it. We all sat at one end of a small, light table,
with an oblong top, on a single pedestal, with three feet. A cloth
covered the table. The medium sat sideways by the table, with his legs
altogether outside it, and in full view of us all, and we all placed our
hands on the table. Immediately raps were given, loud, and perfectly
even in power and time, as if they had been caused by machinery, at
the rate of ] 20 a minute. A materialised hand was previously shown
over the end of the table furthest from us, and we were each allowed to
feel its fingers and nails. A light, cane-bottomed chair was placed at
the same end of the table, and lifted up by invisible agency, tilted for¬
ward, and the back given to one of the ladies. One of the ladies was
seated on the same chair, and the medium placed his hand on the back
of it. The chair was then tilted on two legs, but not lifted completely
off the ground. A slate was next called for, and nearly full light ad¬
mitted. The medium grasped my hands, and placed them on the top of
the table, both of us standing. The table immediately rose under our
hands, till it was a foot off the ground, and then dropped. It afterwards
did the same when the hands of all four of us were joined and placed
upon it.
The slate was cleaned, and the medium broke a morsel off the end of
a slate pencil, put it on the table, and covered it with the slate. We all
placed our hands on the top of the slate, and writing was heard upon the
under side of it, which stopped when the medium removed one hand
from the circle. When the slate was turned up, the Christian name of
a friend of my own, written in such a way as to be recognisable from the
handwriting alone, was found at one end of it, and the words “ My dear
Friend,” at the end nearest to me. Raps confirmed my impression of the
identity of the writer, who passed away about two months ago, and a
test message to myself was then rapped out, worded in a way that
could only have been done by the same friend.
During these manifestations the medium’s whole body was always
plainly visible, and his attitude was such as to render his being in any
way bodily concerned in them, an impossibility. For myself, I may
say, that I have been many years in the Bengal Medical Service, and
have but lately returned to England, and till a short time ago I con¬
sidered it impossible that I should ever be convinced of the truth of
Spiritualism. Foreign Service.
TURKISH ATROCITIES.
APPEAL to spiritualists.
Committee.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Keningale Cook, Esq., LL.D.
W. E. Corner, Esq.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq.
G. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Esq.
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M.I.C.E.
Miss Kislingbury.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Mitchell.
A. C. Swinton, Esq.
The following subscriptions have been already either promised or
received:—
£
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. ..... 10
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
A. C. Swinton, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq.
Theo. Taunton, Esq.
d.
0
0
0
0
0
. Further subscriptions are earnestly solicited, and should be at once
forwarded to the Hon. Sec., Theo. Taunton.
Raymond Lodge, Versailles-road, Anerley, Surrey, S.E.
P.S.—As soon as the list of subscriptions is closed, it is proposed to
forward the list of names, with the several amounts, to the Mansion
House, or such other central fund, as may be agreed upon, for publica¬
tion, as contributions from a few Spiritualists.
The Tower of Oalder.—“ Calder,” which signifies “ a wooded
stream,” is the name of six rivers, and of several districts and parishes
in Scotland; and the “ Tower of Calder,” which in ancient times
formed the nucleus of the Cawdor Castle of later date, was founded in
consequence of a dream. The original proprietor was directed in a dream
to load an ass with gold, to leave the animal to roam at its own sweet will
and pleasure, and to build a castle at the spot whereon the donkey should
stop to rest. The wearied animal knelt beneath a hawthorn tree, round
which the castle was built, and the site proved in all respects an admirable
one. At the present day, in Cawdor Castle, the trunk of the tree, with
knotted protuberances, is still shown in a vaulted apartment at the bottom
of the principal tower, and the top penetrates through a hole in the
vaulted arch of stone above in such a way as to make it appear beyond
dispute that the tree was there before the tower was erected. For ages it
has been the custom of guests in the family to assemble round the tree
and drink “ Success to the Hawthorn ; ” in other words, “ Prosperity to
the house of Calder,” or Cawdor.
102
THE SPiftlTUALiST.
Sept. 29, 1876.,
THE POSITION OF AMERICAN STRANGERS.
Pkofessor Lankester, tbe son of the late coroner, after
two brief sittings with Dr. Slade, of a few minutes’ duration
each, and at one of which he violently snatched a slate out
of his hands, has taken preliminary steps to prosecute this
well-known medium for obtaining money under false pre¬
tences, and the case—or,, at least, the first hearing of the case
—will come off next Monday morning at Bow-street. For
fifteen years Dr. Slade has been before the public in America
as one of its most noted mediums, and bitter as has been
the prejudice against Spiritualism among a large section of
the public in that country, the phenomena occurring in
his presence have there been so unanswerable, and so well
attested, that nobody has ever been bold enough to call for
the intervention of the law. Mr. Simmons, his managing
partner, who has won for himself much respect by all who
know him in this country, is also included in the summons.
At the present time these two American gentlemen are in
England en route for St. Petersburg, Dr. Slade having some
time since made an engagement with the Hon. Alexandre
Aksakof and Prince Wittgenstein, as the representatives in
the matter of a considerable section of the Russian nobility,
to visit that capital for the purpose of submitting his powers
to the critical examination of a scientific committee ap¬
pointed by the St. Petersburg University. Dr. Carpenter
recently wished for a sitting with Dr. Slade, and was
immediately invited to attend one without charge; he after¬
wards remarked to Dr. Slade that he should much like to
see the same results in his own house, with his own
slates and furniture, to which proposition Dr. .Slade
immediately agreed. Although Dr. Slade, with his won¬
derful powers, is not in the habit of losing time by
going about giving stances in different private houses,
he does so occasionally in a friendly way, and we hope that
some of those who are able to speak in this matter will
volunteer to come forward from the retirement of private
life to give evidence. He gave one stance, for instance, free
of charge, at. the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, at which he had none of his
own slates or furniture, and he obtained some remarkable
manifestations there in the presence of an inquiring dis¬
believer, a well-known and intellectual member of the House
of Lords. During his brief stay in London, he has given
a large number of professional stances, and in five cases out of
six to total disbelievers, who in very nearly every case have
been satisfied that he could have nothing to do with their
production. Shortly after he arrived in England, written
invitations were sent to The Times, Telegraph, Standard,
Daily News, to each send a representative free of charge to
a daylight seance; none of them accepted the official in¬
vitation, yet some of these journals have since printed
unlimited abuse of him, and in one or two cases editorially.
Some literary men had stances privately.
Professor Lankester- has intimated in a lengthy letter
in the Times that' Dr. Slade does the writing by sticking a
crumb of pencil under one of his finger-nails and writing
with it, also that in some cases the writing is upon the slate
before the time that it is supposed to be produced there.
As to what Professor Lankester witnessed we here ex¬
press no opinion; that question will be well sifted in
courts of law. But his has not been the experience of many
who may be described as at least his social and intel¬
lectual equals, whose testimony he will, no doubt, have the
pleasure of listening to in the witness-box. In the first
place, Dr. Slade’s finger-nails are not long enough to hold a
fragment of pencil, and if they were, the feat is not possible
under the conditions which ordinarily obtain at his seances.
A few days ago a barrister, a friend of Mr. C. 0. Massey, of
the Temple, went to Dr. Slade with a folding slate which he
had just purchased at Parkins and Gotto’s. Messrs. Slade
and Simmons told him the nature of Professor Lankester’s
charges; thus, with Professor Lankester’s theory fresh in
his mind, he went into the seance-xoom, and in two minutes
came back with the slate covered with writing obtained
under conditions which showed that Professor Lankester’s |
explanation was in no degree applicable to that case.
Mr. Lankester, after prejudicing the case by attacking Dr.
Slade in a daily newspaper, has entered in the summons as |
| defrauded by Dr. Slade, the names of Dr. Carpenter, Pro-
j. fessor Sidgwick, and others, in some instances without
their permission, consequently, although he has thus asso¬
ciated them with himself, it remains to be seen whether
I these eminent members of the Royal Society accept the
! position. If the seance attended by Mr. Lankester was of
the same nature as those at which many other witnesses have
been present, history will be repeating itself in the spectacle
of the retardation of the progress of scientific truth by calling
down the intervention of the law.
We have been informed that Mr. Lankester knows nothing
about Spiritualism, and has had no experience as to the nature
of the phenomena.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Mediums who obtain direct spirit writing have to establish
the truth against a vast amount of public prejudice, due to the
want of knowledge resulting from the orthodox world of
science not having performed its duty to society by patiently
investigating the facts years ago. Yet evidence proving that
direct writing without contact with human hands is a fact of
nature, exists in abundance. Mr. Gerald Massey, in his public
lectures some years ago, at St. George’s Hall, told how, through
the mediumship of his late wife, a pencil would occasionally
write messages before the eyes of the observers. Within
the last three months several cases have occurred in
the provinces, through the mediumship of Dr. Monck,
in which a pencil, untouched by human hands, was seen to
rise and to write upon paper whilst intelligent observers were
watching it all round the table. Towards the close of last
month the editor of the Malvern News officially recorded in
his journal how he attended a stance with the medium just
mentioned. The pencil rose and stood upright upon the
table ** in the full glare of the gaslight.” The editor adds :
“ The sceptical gentleman thought the pencil was sticking
into the table through the blanket. At the request of Dr.
Monck he lifted it up, examined it, and put it down. It was no
sooner released than it rose up again and wrote on the paper a
sentence in the sight of all.” A similar phenomenon occurred,
and has been witnessed several times of late, in the presence
of the same medium, at the house of Mr. Wm. Oxley, Bury
New-road, Higher Broughton, Manchester. The remarkable
phenomena transpiring through the non-professional medium-
ship of Mrs. Everitt, of Hendon, have frequently been cer¬
tified by Mr. S. C. Hall and other well-known observers.
There the direct writing is produced with enormous velocity,
several hundreds of words being given in a few seconds of
time, as frequently recorded in the Spiritual periodicals, and
facts of this nature may chance to bear some relation to Mr.
Lankester getting a few words at one of Dr. Slade’s seances
sooner than was expected. It is evident that the intelligences
producing these manifestations have powers over time and
space which it is difficult to understand. Mr. Home, in his
evidence before the Dialectical Society (which was given and
published during the lifetime of the Emperor Napoleon III.),
said:—
In the house of Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall a table went up so high
in the air that we could not touch it. I had seen a pencil lifted by a
hand to a paper and write, in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon.
We were in a large room—the Salon Louis Quinze. The Empress sat
here, the Emperor there. The table was moved to an angle of more
than forty-five degrees. Then a hand was seen to come; it was a
very beautifully-formed hand. There were pencils on the table; it
lifted, not the one next it, but one on the far side. We heard the
sound of writing, and saw it writing on note paper. The hand passed
before me, and went to the Emperor, and he kissed the hand. It went
to the Empress; she withdrew from its touch, and the hand followed
her. The Emperor said, “ Do not be frightened; kiss it; ” and she
then kissed it; it was disappearing. I said I would like to kiss it.
The hand seemed to he like a person thinking, and as if it were saying,
“ Shall I ? ” It came back to me, and I kissed it. The sensation of
touch and pressure was that of a natural hand. It was as much a
material hand seemingly as my hand is now. The writing was an
autograph of the Emperor Napoleon I. The hand was his hand—
small and beautiful as it is known to have been. In the house of Mr.
Bergheim a smelling-bottle on the table began to tremble, as if some
one with a very shaky band had taken hold of it, and then it began to
spin around upon the table; it spun a minute at least. There were
three witnesses who saw that. I went into a trance immediately after¬
wards, and told them that a spirit named James was present. I learnt
afterwards that Mr. James had a very shaky hand. The Emperor of
Russia, as well as the Emperor Napoleon, have seen hands, and have
taken hold of them, when they seemed to float away into thin air.
103
Sept. 20, 1876.
THfi SPIRITUALIST.
Mr. William Crookes, F.RS., says, in the Quarterly
Journal of Science for 1874, that while he was holding both
the hands of a medium, and her feet were on his, at a dark
seance, with nobody else present but his wife and a lady
relative, n, luminous hand came down from the upper part of
the room, and wrote on a sheet of paper. The medium was
Miss Kate Fox, now the wife of Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.,
Barrister-at-Law.
THE DEFENCE OE DE. SLADE AND MB. SIMMONS.
PRELIMINARY MEETING OP SPIRITUALISTS.
Last "Wednesday night a meeting of a few Spiritualists, who had
been convened by circular, was held at 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.C., to consider matters relating to the prosecution of Dr.
Slade. Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, was voted into the chair. There were
also present Mr. George Wyld, M.D. ; Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S. Tel. E. ; Mrs. Fitz-Gerald ; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A. (Cantab) ;
the Bev. W. W. Newbould, Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne), Mr.
Dawson Bogers, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Mr. Thomas Slater, Miss Kislingbury, Mr.
Gray, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Chairman read the following circular convening the meeting :—
Sir,—I write to invite you to attend a meeting at 38, Great Russell-street, next
Wednesday evening (Sept. 27th), at seven o’clock, to consider what steps should
be recommended to Spiritualists at large to be taken respecting the immediate
prosecution of Dr. Slade, on the charge of obtaining money under false pretences.
In the urgency of the moment, I have asked about twenty friends to come; please
bring with you any Spiritualist who you think should attend such a preliminary
meeting. Should not a Slade Defence Committee be started ? From the urgency
of the occasion, and the shortness of the time, please try to be present.—Yours
truly, William H. Harrison.
Mr. W. H. Harrison then read the following letters :—
Heathlands, Wimbledon, S.W., 26th Sept., 1876.
My Dear Sir,—It is utterly impossible for me to attend to-morrow night, as
I leave town to-night until Thursday morning. I, however, most fully approve
of the taking of energetic steps to defend Mr. Slade.
You may put me down for £10 10s. for this purpose. I shall be glad of a
line here on Thursday morning to tell me what has been decided.—Very truly
yours, Martin R. Smith.
W. H. Harrison, Esq.
Upper Norwood, Sept. 26th, 1876.
Dear Mr. Harrison,—Just a line to say that if I possibly can I shall come to
the meeting to morrow. I approve of a defence committee, if the Association
does not take up the defence, which I think they ought.
I know nothing at present of the steps taken by our opponents, but it is to be
hoped that it will admit of witnesses being called, and in that event there can be
no doubt of the result.—In haste, yours truly, B. Coleman.
He also read a letter expressing approbation of the objects of the
meeting from Mr. C. C. Massey, barrister-at-law, who in the course of
his remarks, said, “ I have had many stances with Dr. Slade, at which
the slate writing has occurred under conditions to which the alleged
discoveries of Professor Lankester and Dr. Donkin could have no
possible application.” He likewise read letters strongly approving the
objects of the meeting from Captain John James, late of the 90th Light
Infantry, from Mr. Morell Theobald, from Mr. Sexton, and from Mr.
Keningale Cook, LL.D. A letter to the same effect from Mr. Thomas
Blyton, honorary secretary to the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, was read; it further asked for information as to the
results of the meeting, in order that they might be laid before the
Dalston Association on the following evening. Mr. Harrison next
announced that he had put himself in communication with Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S., of Newcastle, and Mr. Wm. Hitchman, M.B.C.S.,
President of the Psychological Society of Liverpool, asking them to
ascertain whether Spiritualists in those towns were inclined to take
action in the matter. He added that he had little doubt that the local
Spiritual societies all over the country would give it their con¬
sideration. A telegram from Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Man¬
chester, was read, saying that he would subscribe towards the
expenses if Spiritualists resolved to act in the matter. Mr.
Harrison next stated that on his return to Tendon from Scotland
and the North last Monday night, he discovered that Messrs.
Slade and Simmons, being strangers in this country, and but
slightly acquainted as yet even with Spiritualists, were acting almost
alone. He, therefore, had taken upon himself the responsibility of
inviting about twenty Spiritualists—who chanced to be in town at
■the time, and whose opinions were likely to carry weight—in order
that it might be considered what steps, if any, should be recommended
to Spiritualists at large to be taken in reference to Dr. Slade. He
intended to offer no opinion about Dr. Lankester’s assertions, but as the
allegations of that gentleman differed from the experience of nearly
all those who for the last fifteen years had critically examined that
which took place in the presence of Dr. Slade, he thought that care
should be taken by Spiritualists that Dr. Lankester’s testimony should
be well sifted in a court of law, the more especially that Dr. Slade
possessed real medial powers, and he was not aware that he had
ever supplemented them by any efforts of his own. He thought that if a
fund were started, it should be done in such a way as to leave all the sub¬
scribers responsible for no more than they agreed to pay in, and
that the Committee should incur no responsibilities that could not be
covered by the sum total previously guaranteed; also, that the Com¬
mittee should reserve the power of not expending the whole of the
funds entrusted to their care if they deemed it wise so to do. He
further recommended that no steps should be taken except under legal
advice. Mr. F. K. Munton, Honorary Secretary to the Psychological
Society of Great Britain, had been engaged to act as Dr. Slade’s
solicitor, and counsel would have to be engaged without delay. There
was great public prejudice to work against, in witness whereof, although
the case wassubjudice, the Daily Telegraph had announced decidedly that
Dr. Slade was guilty, by heading articles “ Dr. Slade’s Performances ”;
this he took to be a most outrageous violation of common justice,
and a gross abuse of literary power, showing to what extremes some
people would go. He concluded by remarking that, having called the
meeting, he resigned all further action; if he had made any error in judg¬
ment in calling them together, they could there and then rectify the
mistake ; in any further action which might be taken the responsibility
would rest with the meeting, and not with him.
Mr. Dawson Bogers said that he thought that they were under an
obligation to Mr. Harrison for calling the meeting, and that he had
done it at the right moment, and in the right way. One point was
of vital importance, namely, that Dr. Slade should have efficient counsel,
otherwise they would get into a mess.
A discussion of about an hour’s duration took place, in the course of
which the situations of all parties more or less interested in the case
were considered.
Mr. Enmore Jones remarked that Dr. Slade was a professional
medium, who had made money by his powers; it was not their place
to take the lead in his defence, but it would probably be desirable to
help him. Dr. Slade had been known to them but for a short period;
they were not aware in detail of his antecedents; at the same time
they knew nothing against him. He thought that they should not
commit themselves, but stand ready to help him whenever it was
deemed necessary.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood said that he thought that the business of
the evening was a mere matter of money, and was independent
altogether of Dr. Slade’s character being unknown. It was undis¬
puted that at certain times remarkable phenomena took place in his
presence. They all saw that he had been attacked in this country,
and it was their duty to use every effort to see that he had justice.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald thought that the Committee should be
entitled “The Spiritualism Defence Committee,” that Dr. Slade’s
name should not be mentioned in the title, and that the case should be
watched on behalf of Spiritualists in general.
Dr. Wyld remarked that Spiritualism was well able to defend itself,
and that they were there to support Dr. Slade.
Mrs. Weldon was in favour of the title, “Spiritualist Vigilance
Committee,” and thought the Committee should not appear to take for
granted that Slade was innocent. She would guarantee £10 10s#
towards the funds.
Finally, the following resolutions were passed unanimously:—
1. That a Committee of five be appointed to watch Dr. Slade’s case, and do such
things as it deems necessary.
2. That a subscription be immediately commenced, and the sum collected be
placed at the disposal of that Committee, for employment in such manner as it
deems proper,
Mr. George Wyld, M.D., Mr. Alexander Calder, and Mr. Enmore
Jones were appointed members of the Committee; it was resolved that
Mr. Martin Smith be invited to join them, and that the selection of the
fifth member of the Committee be left to those previously appointed.
The following subscriptions towards the objects of the Committee
were then made, and the list given for publication in The Spiritualist
newspaper, as the nucleus of a fund, to the growth of which the
Spiritual public might contribute :—
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Mr. Martin R. Smith  
Mrs. Weldon      ...
Mr. A. Calder     
Dr. K. Cook  
Captain James  
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  
Mr. Enmore Jones 
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  
Dr. Wyld ...   
G. K   
J. R. W 
Mr. Charles Blackburn 
Miss Douglas    
^10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
110
110
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
2 0 0
110
110
10 10 0
5 0 0
Opinions were expressed at the meeting that Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E., should be invited to become honorary secretary to the
Committee. Mr. George Wyld, M.D., of 12, Great Cumberland-place,
London, agreed to act as honorary secretary pro tem., and to him
further contributions should be forwarded without delay.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan is about to leave the Eastern States to
deliver trance addresses in California.
Birth.—On Monday July 24, at Shanghae, China, Florrie, wife of
Captain E. E. Corner, of the barque M. A. Dixon, of a daughter.
The Rev. R. Colley, curate of Portsmouth, is about to sail for Madras,
in the troopship Malabar.
Mr. Willie Eglinton is now in South Wales, where he may be
addressed at 2, High-street, Merthyr Tydfil. He says that friends in pro¬
vincial towns wishing to engage him should address at once for vacant
dates previous to his departure for the Continent.
The Committee appointed to watch the Slade case might do well to
telegraph to one or more of the American Spiritual periodicals, to let
them know of Dr. Slade’s prosecution in this country, and the necessity
for starting a defence fund at once. Mr. Simmons has already called the
attention of the American Ambassador to the attack.
104
THE SElUlTtJALIST.
Sept. 39, 1876.
THE TIMES CONTROVERSY ON THE MEDIUMSHIP OF
DR. SLADE.
The Times newspaper has always dealt in a straightforward and
honourable manner with Spiritualism, nor is the fair hearing which it
has recently given to individuals of all shades of opinion about the
mediumship of Dr. Slade, any exception to the rule. Some time ago,
when it published information about Spiritualism, it did that which was
rational, under the circumstances, by instructing a member of its literary
staff to examine the facts for a month or more, and then to publish what
he saw.. The result was an article many columns in length, fully recog¬
nising the reality of the facts most commonly recorded in the literature
of Spiritualism, such as the floating of solid objects in the air without
being touched, the playing of musical instruments under abnormal con¬
ditions, and phenomena of like description. We here republish from
recent numbers of the Times the whole of the correspondence which
has been printed therein in relation to the mediumship of Dr. Slade.
The contention was begun by young Mr. Lankester, the son of the late
coroner, who thought he had found out how the phenomena were pro¬
duced. It will be noticed that as the discussion went on, that his
experience as to facts was altogether at variance with that of re¬
sponsible observers who had attended other seances. In the prose¬
cution of Dr. Slade which he has set on foot, he has included without
their unanimous consent the names of persons whom he alleges to have
been defrauded, but has not included several witnesses, such as Lord
Rayleigh, and Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace, whose testimony as to facts
does not coincide with his own. The following is the correspondence
TESTIMONY OF PROFESSOR LANKESTER, F.R.S.
Sir,—I trust that you will find space for a brief account of an inter¬
view with “Dr.” Slade from which I have just returned. Inconse¬
quence of the more than questionable action of Mr. Alfred Wallace,
the discussions of the British Association have been degraded by the
introduction of the subject of Spiritualism, and the public has learnt
—perhaps it is time they should—that “ men of science ” are not
exempt as a body from the astounding credulity which prevails in this
country and in America. It is, therefore, incumbent upon those who
consider such credulity deplorable to do all in their power to arrest its
development.
My friend, Mr. Serjeant Cox, having begged me to go and see the
medium Slade, and having informed me that so distinguished a man of
science as Dr. Carpenter had confessed himself “ very much shaken ”
by what he had witnessed in Slade’s presence, I wrote to that person
and obtained an appointment for last Monday morning. Slade's chief
“ manifestation ” is of this kind:—The witness and Slade being alone in
an ordinary well-lit sitting room, Slade produces a common slate and a
small piece of slate pencil, which are laid on the simple four-legged
table, at one corner of which the witness and Slade are seated. Slade
then shows the witness that there is no writing on either side of the
slate. He then places the slate horizontally close against the table and
below it, pressing the slate against the table, the little bit of slate pencil
being supposed to be between the slate and the flat under surface of the
table. The slate is so closely applied to the table that no hand or finger
could possibly get between them in order to write. A noise as of writing
is now heard proceeding from the slate, which is held by Slade or by the
witness—the spirit is supposed to be at work. The slate is then removed,
and a message is found written either on the under surface of the slate
or on the surface which was facing the lower surface of the table. I
watched Slade very closely during these proceedings, which were re¬
peated several times during my interview last Monday, paying no atten¬
tion to the raps, gentle kicks, and movements of the table, of which I
will say nothing further than that they were all such as could be readily
produced by the medium’s legs and feet. I simulated considerable
agitation and an ardent belief in the mysterious nature of what I saw
and heard. At the same time I was utterly astounded to find the
strongest reason to believe that, with the exception of the first message,
which was written by Slade underneath the slate with (I believe) one
finger of the hand which was holding the slate, the rest of the messages,
which were longer and better written, were coolly indited on the slate
by Slade while it was resting on his knee, concealed from my view by
the edge of the table, and that the slate was subsequently placed by him
in the position where the spirit-writing was to take place with the mes¬
sage already written upon it. I was led to form this hypothesis by
noting the delay which always occurred between my being shown the
slate with both sides clean and the placing of the slate against the table
or over my head for the purpose of receiving the spirit-writing, which
was then heard proceeding with the usual sound of scratching on a slate.
This delay did not occur when Slade wrote with the finger of the hand
by which he held the slate. During the delay Slade made various ex¬
cuses ; took up the little piece of pencil and bit it, and also invariably
made a peculiar grating noise by clearing his throat. At the same time
I heard distinctly on three occasions a low but perfectly recognisable
sound of a pencil traversing a slate, and twice on looking quickly at
Slade’s right arm, the elbow of which was visible, while the rest was
hidden by the table and purporting to be holding the slate, I saw move¬
ments from right to left, and left to right, which accorded with my
hypothesis that he was using his hand in writing.
I left Slade with a promise to return to-day (Friday), and at once
wrote to Mr. Serjeant Cox to tell him my explanation of the manner in
which the thing was accomplished, and offering to put my hypothesis to
the test by seizing the slate from Slade’s hand when he professed it to
Kj be devoid of writing, and at the moment when the “ spirit writing ” was
|| about to commence.
This morning I went with my friend Dr. H. B. Donkin, of Queen’s
| i College, Oxford, to test my hypothesis by this crucial evperiment:—I
11| had determined to seize the slate at the critical moment—at the moment
|)I when Slade professed that it was entirely untouched—and if the
|If writing were already on the slate, before the spirits were supposed to
|>| have begun their work, I considered that I should have a demonstration
| | of the truth of my hypothesis, which would be convincing to persons
not already lost to reason. I explained to Dr. Donkin my hypothesis
!>! and my intention, and the result has completely justified my anticipa-
f jj tion. As on last Monday, so to-day, Slade allowed me to hold the slate-
ill against the table, in order to receive the spirit writing, saying that the
|) | spirit would probably write more distinctly for me than for him. The
| (| slate had been cleaned, and was now declared by Slade to be devoid of
||| writing, but writing was to appear on it in the usual way, accompanied
|(j by the scratching noise of the pencil. There had been the usual delay
|(| and fumbling on Slade’s part, when I put out my hand and immediately
||| seized the slate away, saying, “You have already written on the slate
m I have watched you doing it each time.” And there, sure enough, was
!(| the message already written, as I had anticipated. My friend, Dr.
|j! Donkin, will give you a more detailed account of the events which
|)| occurred in his presence.—I am, sir, faithfully yours,
p .,V; E. Ray Lankester, F.R S.,
|(l Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford, and Professor of
11| * Sept. 15th. Zoology in University College, London.
j(i TESTIMONY OF DR. H. B. DONKIN.
!(| Sir,—At the request of my friend Professor Lankester, I accompanied
f)| him in his visit to Dr. Slade, the medium, in order to watch carefully
| (| what might happen, and to be able to corroborate or not the opinion he
|(| had formed as to the means employed.
A spirit message was soon written, the slate being held in opposition
| (i to the under surface of the table, the thumb alone of the medium’s right
II i hand being on the table. During the alleged writing a scratching was
|| j plainly heard, and at the same time a slight to-and-fro movement of the
||j arm with some contraction of flexor tendons on the wrist was visible.
| \ | The writing was imperfect and distorted, requiring the interpretation of
III an expert, and appeared on the surface of the slate, which faced down-
|) | wards.
j|j The result was in accordance with the theory of the agency of a
111 minute piece of slate pencil probably held under the nail of the middle
| (i finger.
|(j The next communication was partly quite legible, and in a straight-
ij| forward undisguised hand, but this time it appeared on the upper sur-
! (| face of the slate. Bearing in mind the hypothesis that this was ready
| (| written before the spirit got to work under the table, I carefully watched
111 Slade during a considerable interval before he replaced the slate. While
Dj he was clearing his throat and making short remarks, I saw his right
||| arm, now at some distance from the table, moving exactly as though he
|| | were writing on something placed on his knee. Owing to my position
|(| at the table, opposite him, I could not see his hand. Simultaneously I
111 heard the scratching of the pencil, hardly at all obscured by the noises
||| I allude to. After the replacement of the slate the spirit-scratching
K| (this time as a ruse) was heard as before.
Before the next communication the spirits were asked if they could
|(| write for Professor Lankester. They agreed to do so. I observed the
| (| medium go through the same sorts of manoeuvres as before, although
l|| even more deliberately, very little effort being made to hide a loud
i 11 scratching while the slate was away from the table. After some little
i(| time Slade put the slate under the table, holding it as before with his
H| right hand, Professor Lankester being about to hold it with his left in a
[|| similar manner. Here let especial notice be given to the fact that at
|(| this moment the slate was said to be free from writing. Before any
||| time was allowed for spirit-scratching to be heard, my friend, as agreed
M upon, sharply withdrew the slate, and, in accordance with the prophecy
| > | displayed, the message already written.
|)| To make this exposure still more perfect, I may add that the first of
| (| the two later messages referred to consisted of two words read by the
||| medium as “ Samuel Lankester,” in answer to the question as to what
||| spirits were present. The “ Samuel” being very indistinct my friend
ih suggested it might be “ Edwin,” wliich the medium said was quite
| i possible. The last message was an answer to the same question, and,
| h the suggestion being adopted, the words “ Edwin Lankester ’’ were
| (| perfectly clear.
To any one not pre-disposed to believe in spirit agency at all hazards,
l|| the result of this seance is sufficient.—I am, sir, yours faithfully,
||i Horatio B. Donkin, M.A., Oxon.,
| |l Sept. 15th. Assistant-Physician to the Westminster Hospital.
||i COL. LANE FOX, F.R.S. (I’RES. OF ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE) ON THE
|): DISCUSSION AT GLASGOAV.
| Sir,—In your report of the meeting of the British Association on the
|)| 13th inst., I am stated to have said that I had witnessed the manifesta-
|\| tions of Spiritualism. I should be sorry that as President of theAn-
||| thropological Institute I should be supposed to have jumped at any
|(! such conclusions from the data that are now before us. Will you,
: (| therefore, kindly permit me to say that the experiments to which I briefly
||| referred had reference to certain psychical phenomena connected with
Ki unconscious writing, and did not necessarily involve any conclusion of
!|! Spiritualism. The expediency of inquiry into this subject appears to
m have been fully shown during the recent discussion at Glasgow. When
|(] at the present time a case of belief in witchcraft occurs among the lower
W orders, and some old woman is thrown into a pond for putting a spell on
Sept. 29, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
another, it is usual to record the circumstance as a survival of ancient
superstition, and a whole district has been condemned as an abyss of
ignorance through the existence of one such case ; but among the upper
classes of society the allied belief in spiritual manifestations through
the agency of media is now as widely received as witchcraft was in the
seventeenth century, and is continuing to spread rapidly. One of the
main functions of the science of anthropology consists in interpreting
the past by the present, the unknown by the known. It is rarely that
any popular belief is so entirely devoid of truth as to be destitute of
some few grains of fact upon which the belief is founded, and the work
of anthropology consists in sifting these facts from the large volume of
credulity and some imposture with which they are associated. But
although the reading of Professor Barrett’s paper at Glasgow may have
done good by drawing attention to the prevalence of Spiritualism and to
the fact that some of our most eminent men of science are believers in
it, it is, I think, rather by a committee of inquiry that this investiga¬
tion should be conducted than by public discussion, which, even if it
could be restrained within the bounds of reason, is liable to be discred¬
ited by the unintentional misrepresentation of the views of the
speakers.—I remain, etc., A. Lane Fox.
TESTIMONY OF DR. CARTER BLAKE, LECTURER ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY,
WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL.
Sir,—Let me, as an observer, who has very closely watched the
abnormal physical phenomena which take place in presence of Dr.
Slade, protest against the tone in which Professor Lankester has
described the facts and investigated the subject. The adoption of a
violent method towards a gentleman and a foreigner may lean to mis¬
apprehension as to the fairness and scientific spirit of the majority of
observers.
My recollection of the facts which attend Dr. Slade’s seances is so at
variance with that of Professor Lankester that I would merely
“ traverse ” the latter in toto. The discrepancies which exist between
his statement and that of Dr. Donkin may be either fortuitous or
intentional.
The questions may be asked whether Dr. Slade did not formally say,
“ There is writing now on the slate,” a second before it was snatched
from him. Such is his account, which seems to me probable and fair.
Secondly, what was the “ message ” of which Professor Lankester
speaks? Why does he not publish it? He admits “simulation” on
the Monday, and expects us to accept his statement of fact on the Fri¬
day. How can scientific observation be carried on unless thorough
mutual confidence takes place ?
This week I have examined for the 23rd time the slate. A competent
and eminent anatomist has wiped the surface and marked both sides of
the slate with his own initials. He has then held it under the table,
when writing, which did not previously exist on it, has become visible.
If Dr. Slade plays tricks, his modus operandi is something very dif¬
ferent from that which Professor Lankester would suggest. The ob¬
servers who have visited him, including some of the cleverest minds in
science, have failed to detect any fraud. Professor Lankester has found
out simply nothing.
Let me assure your readers that my opinions are not in any way in¬
fluenced by any theory of what is called “ Spiritualism,” which I do
not accept in the sense many put on it. But, in the name of science and
veracity, let me entreat inquirers to suspend their judgment till they
have arrived at a vera causa of the facts, and weigh the facts as they
alone stand.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
C. Carter-Blake, Doct. Sci.,
Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy, Westminster Hospital.
TESTIMONY OF MR. 0. C. MASSEY, BARRISTER-AT-LAW.
Sir,—I fear that the publication of Professor Lankester’s and Dr.
Donkin’s letters will entail on you the nuisance of many communica¬
tions from persons who have witnessed the performance at Slade’s. If
I add to the number by offering soine perfectly cool and matter-of-fact
remarks upon the evidence of these gentlemen and others, it is because
I have taken considerable trouble to get at the truth by frequent in¬
vestigation. Doubtless Professor Lankester’s exposure will have settled
the whole matter to the satisfaction of a great many readers of the
Times. The writing was distinctly heard at the wrong time, and the
message was found already written when the slate was supposed to be
clean. Slade is a vulgar and most impudent trickster, and the only sur¬
prising part of the performance is that his stupid trick should ever have
escaped detection. What more can be said? Simply this: that of all
the competent and, in some cases, distinguished observers to whom the
suggestion of trickery has seemed to involve a physical impossibility,
not one, I believe, has attached the least importance to writing ob¬
tained under the condition which Professor Lankester appears alone to
have witnessed it. In all the accounts which have been thought worthy
of publication, or even of private mention, one fact is invariably found
—the production of writing on a slate ascertained to be clean and
which is never for a moment removed from above the table or out
of sight of the investigator. Frequently it is the investigator’s own
slate; sometimes a double-folding slate just purchased. The writing,
which is heard, comes on the under surface of the slate laid on the
table, and, therefore, in a closed space. Sometimes Slade does not
even touch the slate; never, when it is not removed from view of
the spectator, could he write upon it without instant detection.
Some of those who have witnessed these things, and who, therefore,
know what can be done under conditions inconsistent with trickery,
may be disposed to impugn Professor Lankester’s account of what
occurred. That seems to me unnecessary, as it would be offensive.
Mr. Slade must defend his own character. But others are on their
trial besides him, and for something worse than folly. As one of
) | many who have made and published statements concerning this man’s
ij powers, which either establish a case for investigation or are inexcus-
i ably and wilfully false, I beg of your sense of justice to give publicity
)| to this letter.—I am, Sir, you obedient servant, C. 0. Massey.
S; 4, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, Sept. 16.
)j TESTIMONY OF MR. J. A. CLARKE.
jj Sir,—May I add my experience of “ Dr. ” Slade to that of your cor-
(| respondents whose letters appear in the Times of this morning ?
i! At a seance messages were written on a slate in my presence, Dr.
/] Slade stating that they were written by the spirit of his deceased wife.
<j Upon my inquiring whether a message could be obtained from one of
> i my own deceased friends, the medium said he would try, and directed
me to write on the slate the name of the person from whom I wished
v| to have a communication. I wrote a female Christian name and sur-
) i name. Dr. Slade put the slate under the table, showing, after a few
seconds, one edge of the slate visible, and while holding it thus, asked
(I me if I had lost a daughter. I said, “ No, a friend.” Then came the
j I sound as of writing, and on the medium handing me the slate, I found
) | very rudely scrawled upon it a few lines about being present, and being
;j| by my side, signed with the initials of the name I had written on the
!)} other side—namely, M. W. The slate was cleaned, and another short
j)j sentence of a similar general import was written. Now, this actual
|y| writing1 in my presence, and attesting by signature, might have been a
i) | satisfactory evidence of the power of Dr. Slade to procure direct com-
|) | munications from departed souls, but for the fact that I wrote a ficti-
| \ j tious name; for I neither knew nor ever heard of any person of that
i) | name now deceased.
iji Next, as to the opportunity afforded for discovering trickery. I had
h j to sit close to a table, with my hands upon it, and placed so far from
|) | the side that it was impossible for me to see whether or not any move-
I I ments of the medium, or of apparatus, took place underneath the table,
i | ] And upon my proposing to sit on the floor, so that I could watch the
|/j under side of the table, the medium’s legs, and his right hand, which
i (j holds the slate, while some other person was experiencing the manifesta-
I I tions, I was told, both by Mr. Simmons (the manager) and Dr. Slade,
i) i that none of the phenomena can be produced unless all persons present
i ! join hands on the table, and, further, that Dr. Slade is unable to obtain
! j any manifestations “ with even a dog in the room.” So I hope, when
this medium visits Dr. Carpenter, a mirror will be placed in such a
II position that Dr. Carpenter may continually observe the medium’s
If hands and feet, and the whole space underneath the table.
!) | The evidence I have to give is of this character. I was prevented
ij from seeing whether or not the spirit touches of my legs and pullings of
| | my trowsers were done by Dr. Slade’s left foot, or whether his left foot
j j or his knees, with simple mechanical appliances, or more complicated
! | arrangements from the floor, lifted the chair, which jumped up under
III one corner of the table; or whether the medium used any mechanical
S i contrivance for raising the table while I had my foot upon one of his.
| (| Certainly there was nothing to prevent these effects from being accom-
jji plished by such means, and the four-legged table was not a common
j f one, but constructed without any frame under the top, so that there was
iji plenty of room for the medium to move his leg about. My attention
Ii was called to the position of Dr. Slade’s knees and feet after each
| manifestation, not while the several tricks were being transacted. I
| was prevented from seeing whether the medium, in manipulating the
slate before it was held for a writing under or upon the table, or over
my head, did or did not hastily scribble the few words himself; but
j there was ample opportunity for him to do so, supposing him to be well
||| practised. And if he were short of a spirit at any time, that way would
| | answer every purpose. I was prevented from seeing whether he did or
j 11 did not deftly turn over the slate when the message was to appear on
! | the face next to the table; but he might have done so if he chose. I
I I was prevented from seeing whether he wrote the longest message—a
m slate-side full—with a little instrument attached to his middle finger,
! j j or whether he did it in some other way; but during the writing of that
| i and other messages I did observe movements of his arm and wrist, pre-
11 j cisely such as would have been apparent if he were writing on the slate.
ij| In fact, there was the fullest opportunity for deception in the whole
I ji business, and there was no chance, but such as a sitter might surrep-
n] titiously plot of his own accord, of detecting the manner of the impo-
| )j sition. Nothing at all, however, was done of so simple a character as a
j j message being written on a common (not a trick) slate, examined by
I yourself, and held by yourself (not upon a trick table), without interfer¬
ence of the medium before or after.
As I happen to be the joint-inventor with Mr. J. Nevill Maskelyne of
the automaton “Psycho,” I may claim to know something of subtle
mechanical illusions; and I am also familiar with the methods of sub¬
stitution, concealment, and reproduction employed by professors of
sleight-of-hand. Had there been any proofs of supernatural agency at
I i work when I was with the medium I could hardly have failed to perceive
| them, and, of course, I should have been profoundly impressed and
astonished by such wonder.—I have the honour to be, your obedient
I servant, John Algernon Clarke.
| The Salisbury Hotel, Fleet-street, Sept. 16.
TESTIMONY OF MR. A. R. WALLACE, F.R.G.S.
Sir,—In the Times of the 16th inst. Professor E. Ray Lankester
states that I am personally responsible for the reading of Professor
Barrett’s paper before the Anthropological Department of the British
Association, and that my supposed conduct is “ more than question¬
able.” May I be allowed to show that this accusation (for such it
amounts to) is wholly without foundation ?
The paper in question was brought before the Committee of Section
D by the secretary, before which time I had never seen it. A member
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 29, 1876.
proposed that it should be reported on, but after a full discussion this
was negatived.. The paper then passed to the Departmental Com¬
mittee, where it was again discussed, and, on division, was left to be
read in due course. Professor Lspikester is evidently ignorant of the
fact that the reading of this paper was decided after a vote taken in
two committees, and he was, therefore, not justified in making the
unqualified statement that, “ in consequence of the more than ques¬
tionable action of Mr. Alfred "Wallace, the discussions of the British
Association have been degraded by the introduction of the subject of
Spiritualism.” As to Professor Lankester’s opinion as to what branches
of inquiry are to be tabooed as “degrading,” we have, on the other
side, the practical evidence of such men as Lord Rayleigh, Mr. Crookes,
Dr. Carpenter, and Colonel Lane Fox—none of them inferior in
scientific eminence to Professor Lankester, yet all taking part in the
discussion, and all maintaining that discussion and inquiry were neces¬
sary ; while the close attention of the late President of the Association
and of a crowded audience showed the great interest the subject excited.
As I have now shown that Professor Lankester commenced his
letter with an erroneous statement of fact, and a “ more than ques¬
tionable ” statement of opinion, it is not to be wondered at that I find
the remainder of his communication equally unsatisfactory. His
account of what happened during his visit to Dr, Slade is so com¬
pletely unlike what happened during my own visit, as well as the re¬
corded experiences of Serjeant Cox, Mr. Carter Blake, and many
others, that I can only look upon it as a striking example of Dr. Car¬
penter’s theory of preconceived ideas. Professor Lankester went with
the firm conviction that all he was going to see would be imposture,
and he believes he saw imposture accordingly. The “ fumbling,” the
“ manoeuvres,” the “ considerable interval of time ” between cleaning
the slate and holding it under the table, and the writing occurring on
the opposite side of the slate to that on which the piece of pencil was
placed, were all absent when I witnessed the experiment; while the
fact that legible writing occurred on the clean slate when held entirely
in my own hand while Dr. Slade’s hands were both upon the table and
held by my other hand, such writing being distinctly audible while in
progress ; and the further fact that Dr. Slade’s knees were always in
sight, and that the slate was never rested upon them at all, render it
quite impossible for me to accept the explanation of Professor Lan¬
kester and Dr. Donkin as applicable to any portion of the phenomena
witnessed by me.—Yours faithfully, Alfred R. Wallace.
' Glasgow, Sept. 18.
TESTIMONY OP MR. A. JOY, M.INST.C.E.
Sir,—Under the above heading Mr. Lankester and Dr. Donkin give
an account of a seance with Slade which differs so widely from my expe¬
rience that I trust you will, in common justice to Slade, allow me to
state some of the points of difference :—
1. Slade sat on my left, facing me, and in such a position that not only
his legs and feet, but his whole body, as well as both hands and arms,
was in full view during the whole seance, except when he was avowedly
holding the slate under the table, when one hand and forearm were
concealed.
2. The writing always came on the upper side of the slate.
3. On one occasion I wrote a question on one side of the slate, holding
it in such a position that Slade could not possibly see what I was writing,
not that it would have made any difference if he had done so ; for, after
I had turned the slate so as to have the writing downwards, Slade took
hold of one corner, while I still held the other, and while both were thus
holding it we passed it underneath the table, when Slade immediately
let go, and placed both his hands on the top of the table. Under these cir¬
cumstances I got a distinct answer to my question written on the upper
side of the slate.
4. I was repeatedly touched on the right side of my body, and two or
three times while I was looking at the place. During this time Slade’s
feet, on my left, were always in sight and generally in contact with
mine, and both his hands on the table under mine. Twice I was bodily
pushed forward, chair and all, along the carpet, slowly, about four inches.
From our relative positions it was perfectly impossible that Slade could
have done this, or have written on his knee, without my seeing him, or
that he could have produced any “ gentle kicks,” or any of the touches
which I have referred to, and which were equivalent to a pressure of
six or eight pounds. Nor could he have overturned a chair which stood
at a clear yard’s distance from him; still less have brought it back
again from a distance of about three yards, after I had satisfied myself
that there was no connecting hair or wire, and without his having moved
from his seat. Yet these things occurred, jf Raps and movements of
the table ” I say nothing about; they are easily produced.—Yours
faithfully, A. Joy, M.I.C.E., late R.A.
Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
TESTIMONY OP MR. G. C. JOAD.
Sir,—I fear l must submit to be considered as “ lost to reason; ” for,
notwithstanding Professor Lankester’s exposure (?) of Dr. Slade, I still
believe in him, and I must beg a few lines of your space to give my
reason. I had had three sittings with Dr. Slade, and at none had
detected anything like imposture. After reading Professor Lankester's
letter, I resolved to go again; I have just returned, and will state as
briefly as possible what occurred.
I took with me a book-si ate—i.e., two slates joined down one side so
as to close like a book. I first examined Dr. Slade’s fingers; the nails
were cut down so low that I do not believe he could have picked up a
pin, and there was no mark of a piece of pencil having been pushed
between the nail and the flesh. I then inspected Dr. Slade’s slate,
which was on the table, and initialed one corner; it was then imme¬
diately placed, close against the under side of the table at the corner,
in such a position that I could see Dr. Slade’s thumb on the rim of the
slate projecting beyond the edge of the table nearest to him, while the
corner of the slate with my initials was just visible beyond the side of
the table nearest to me. A scratching was at once heard, and, on re¬
moval, a message was seen written on the upper side where my initials
were. I need hardly say I kept my eyes on the visible portion of the
slate all the time.
I then produced my own slate, perfectly clean, a tiny piece of pencil
was placed between the flaps, the slate was closed, and at once placed
beneath the table. I could see by one end that it was kept closed ; a
message was written inside, the writing was left, and the piece of pencil
placed on the inner surface that remained clean. This time Dr. Slade,
on the slate being closed, raised it, and rested one corner on the point
of my left shoulder, the slate projecting to the front, so that by turning
my head I could see the whole of it. It was moved directly from the
table to my shoulder, and I did not lose sight of it for a second. A
scratching began, and, on the three taps being heard, the slate was
placed on the table and opened, when on the previously clean surface
was seen written, “ Cannot do more; let this be proof.—Allie.” Perhaps
I may as well mention that no raps or kicks occurred to distract my
attention.—lam, Sir, your obedient servant, George C. Joad.
Oakfield, Wimbledon-park, W., Sept. 18th.
MR. J. PARK HARRISON, ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF PROF. BARRETT’S PAPER.
Sir,— In Mr. Wallace’s letter in the Times of to-day, an attempt is
made, most unfairly, to throw the blame of the reception of Professor
Barrett’s paper on the Committee of Section D and its Sub-committee
of Anthropology. In justice to the members of those committees, I wish
to mention, as the seconder of the motion of Mr. Hyde Clarke (that the
paper in question should be referred in the usual way), that Mr. Wallace
spoke against the proposal, urging that it would practically shelve the
paper ; and when, by a small majority, the further consideration of the
question was left in the hands of the Departmental Committee, Mr.
Wallace again urged the same plea with them at a small meeting, and
carried his point by a majority of one—his own vote. Yet he objects
to its being said that he was responsible.
I should mention that a large majority of the Committee of Section D
were known to be opposed to the admission of any discussion on Spirit¬
ualism ; but the paper was not sent to the secretary of the department
until Monday morning, notwithstanding Mr. Hyde Clarke’s request that
it might be forwarded to him in time to have it referred. Several
members of the committee had by that time left Glasgow, and others
did not think their votes would be required.
As a good deal of unmerited obloquy has, in some quarters, been cast
on the Department of Anthropology, which was made use of on this
occasion largely by members of other sections, I think it right to add
that, of the six members of Council of the Anthropological Institute who
attended the meeting of the British Association at Glasgow, only one
voted for the reception of Mr. Barrett’s paper, and that, as Colonel
Lane Fox has already explained, on grounds altogether opposed to
Spiritualism.—Yours, &c., J. Park Harrison,
Royal Institution, Sept. 19th.
DR. H. B. DONKIN ON PROF. LANKESTER’S EVIDENCE.
Sir,—Will you allow me a few lines in order to point out the different
import of the evidence of Professor Lankester and of the statements
made by the believers in regard to this subject ?
The great characteristic of Professor Lankester’s explanation is that
it is a verified prediction, as shown in his letter to you. Any reasoning
mind allows that when, in a search after scientific truth, an hypothesis leads
to a true prediction, very little more evidence is required for its unquali¬
fied reception. Again, this hypothesis alone, even unverified by experi¬
ment, is a vera causa—it covers the facts. Why seek further ? Causae
non sunt multiplicandce prceter necessitatem.
On the other hand, the letters of Professor Wallace, Dr. Blake and
others, are really, simple narratives of what they have seen, or cate¬
gorical denials of what others have attempted to prove, and amount to
nothing more than the rather na'ive statement that they have been to see
a conjuring trick, and actually cannot find out “how it’s done.”—I am,
Sir, yours faithfully, Horatio B. Donkin.
September 19. -
TESTIMONY OF MR. E. W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW.
Sir,—Having been twice referred to by your correspondents as one of
the witnesses of Dr. Slade’s doings, I must ask your permission to state
briefly that my visit to him was official; my duty, as President of the
Psychological Society of Great Britain, being to report to the society
upon whatever alleged psychological phenomena may invite attention.
I certainly witnessed all that your correspondents have described, and
have reported faithfully what I saw. But I have carefully abstained
from pronouncing any judgment as to genuineness or otherwise. My
report concludes thus :—“ I offer no opinion upon their causes, for I
have formed none. If they be genuine, it is impossible to exaggerate
their interest and importance. If they be imposture, it is equally im¬
portant that the trick should be exposed, as trickery can only be, by
showing how it is done and doing it.”
My experience differs from that of my friend Professor R. Lankester
in this—that with me the slate was not placed under the table, but upon
it, and the writing appeared upon the side next to the table, my eyes,
as well as hand, being upon it from the moment I cleaned it until I lifted
it and found the whole side filled with writing from end to end. If
written previously it could only be by some sympathetic pencil which
becomes visible when the slate is warmed by the hands placed upon it.
Chemists will say if such a thing can be, for if it be so it is a complete
solution of the mystery. But although the experiments tried by myself
might be so explained, for I used the slate provided by Dr. Slade, it will
Sept. 29, 1876,
107
THE SPIRITUALIST.
not explain the instances of Dr. Carpenter and many others who have
used their own slates; and this should always be required by the
visitor.
Experience shows that no judgment can be safely formed of experi¬
ments of any kind upon one trial. They must be witnessed under
various conditions. The very strangeness of the exhibition should
make us slow to come to an opinion whether what is seen is conjuring
or psychological.
I can only repeat what Dr. Carpenter has stated of his own visit—
that I could detect no imposture, nor find any explanation, mechanical
or otherwise, either of the writing, the rapping, the floating chairs, or
the hands.
But, knowing how a clever conjuror can deceive the eye of a stranger,
I should be reluctant to form an opinion until I had seen the exhibition
twice or thrice, so as to be enabled to keep the eye steadily upon the
exhibitor, and not upon the phenomena,—watching what he is doing
instead of observing what is done,—by which process alone can sleight
of hand be discovered.—Yours obediently,
Edward W. Cox,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Carlton Club, Sept. 18.
prop, lankester on the value op evidence by other observers. I
Sir,—Mr. Alfred Wallace has charged me with making an unfounded | <
statement in ascribing responsibility for the discussion on Spiritualism i j
at Glasgow in Section D of the British Association, the section over j(
which he presided, to him.
Having been for nine years a member of the committee of Section D, ;j
and for a large part of that time one of its secretaries, I am well
acquainted with the duties and formalities of that committee. The H
committee of Section D having refused to report on Professor Barrett’s j'
paper, it was Mr. Wallace’s duty to carry out the intentions of the
committee, and to consider the paper as rejected, or postponed. The i<
“departmental committee,” or “sub-committee,” to which both Mr. |J
Wallace and Mr. Park Harrison allude as taking action in the matter,
has no legitimate existence. This Mr. Wallace knows as well as I do, jj
since he was the first chairman of the new “ department ” of Anthro- i
pology established by the Council of the Association at Nottingham in j
1867, the express object of the formation of departments in place of j
sub-sections being the suppression of sub-sectional committees, which !
had been found to act injuriously by admitting papers for discussion of 'j
an objectionable character.
I have nothing to say with reference to the letters of your other i
correspondents, in which they state the impressions left on their minds j
by their interviews with Slade, since their failure to detect Slade’s j
imposture does not affect my demonstration of one—possibly not the jj
only one—of the methods employed by him. I make an exception in ij
favour of a correspondent who professes to be the mouthpiece of Slade, j
and who is known to be his personal friend. He states that Slade said i)
before the slate was removed by me, “There is already writing on the jj
slate.” Dr. Donkin and I were the only persons present besides Slade I)
at the time, and we emphatically state that nothing of the kind was said. !)
Slade offered no explanation whatever, but, exhibiting great agitation, u
remained silent and pale. ij
It is perhaps hardly necessary that I should point out to your readers j
the utility of Slade’s agent, Simmons, who sits in the ante-room with ij
visitors who are waiting for an interview, and listens to their conversa- n
tion. In this way he picked up the somewhat unusual name of a deceased j j
relative of a friend of mine, who was at first staggered by the appear- | j
ance of this name on the slate, but immediately remembered that she j j
had mentioned this name in the presence of Simmons in the ante-room, |)
and that Slade had subsequently, before the seance commenced, con- jj
versed with Simmons. ij
The real question to be investigated in this matter is not “By what jj
strange agency are these Spiritualistic marvels brought about?” but jj
“ How is it that apparently sane persons believe that the Spiritualist’s jj
tricks are marvels due to a strange agency?” The answer which all j
history and experience gives to the latter question is to be found in the jj
existence of an unsuspected amount of credulity and incapacity for j
observation, and of an unsuspected amount of impudence and mendacity, j j
To convict the Spiritualist impostor one must not approach him with jj
theories based on “recondite principles of modern science,” nor should ij
one put him on his guard as though an honourable contest were in hand, j j
but his habits and methods should be as minutely and covertly investi- j j
gated as those of some elusive wild beast, and then at the right moment jj
he may be seized and brought to the light “ taken in the act.”—Faith- j
fully yours, E. Bay Lankester. jj
Sept. 20.  
DR. SLADE'S STATEMENT. ^ j j
Sir,—It very seldom occurs that I feel called upon to write in my own j j
defence. To the statements of Professor Lankester which appeared in jj
the Times of the 16th inst. I think I may with propriety reply.
These are the facts:—On our sitting down to the table I held the jjJ
slate against the under side of the table, when, after some delay, the j j j
sound of the pencil writing on the slate was heard. On withdrawing [jj
the slate there was found to be what might have been intended for a jjj
name, very poorly written upon the upper surface. I then wiped this jjj
off the slate, saying, “I will hold it again; perhaps they will write ijl
plainer.” Again a little delay ensued, when I said to Professor Lan- jjj
kester, “ Perhaps if you will take hold of the slate with me they may be ij i
better able to write.” He thereupon released his hand from where it jj!
was joined with my left and those of his friend upon the table, and, j j j
instead of holding the slate with me, seized it, as he describes.
Instead of there being a message written, as he says, there were only jj j
t wo, or, at the most, three words on the upper surface of the slate. j j I
Now, had Professor Lankester listened as closely as he says he u 1
watched me, he must have heard me say, after asking him to hold the
slate with me, “ They are writing now.” This was said while he was
in the act of removing his hand from where it was joined on the table,
to the slate, for I heard the sound of the pencil when the writing
commenced, while I was asking him to hold the slate with me. Conse¬
quently, when he seized the slate, only two or three words were found
written upon it.
Had he told me he suspected I was doing the writing, I think there
would have been no difficulty in disabusing his mind on that point.
That I do the writing with a piece of pencil under my finger nail is an
old theory. However, I always keep my nails so closely cut as to
render that impossible, to which those who have taken the trouble to
examine them can testify. Therefore, all I have to say is, I did not do
the writing at the sitting with Professor Lankester, nor at any other
sitting given by me during the years I have been before the public as a
medium.—Very truly yours, Henry Slade.
THE PRESIDENT OE THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE ON THE POSITION OF
SCIENTIFIC MEN IN RELATION TO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—With your kind permission I had said all that I proposed to
say about Professor Barrett’s paper, but as my friend Mr. Park Har¬
rison has quoted me in his endeavour to throw blame on Mr. Wallace
for introducing this subject at Glasgow, I write to say that, although
far from being able to follow that distinguished naturalist in all his
views upon Spiritualism, he had my entire support in his desire that
the paper should be read. I believe that Mr. Park Harrison was quite
in a minority in wishing to taboo the subject, and I must correct the
impression conveyed in his letter that six members of the Council of
the Anthropological Institute had the opportunity of voting. Only
three were present, including himself. So far from meriting or receiving
obloquy from men of science on this account, I believe that the Depart¬
ment of Anthropology as a practical science will only do itself honour
by boldly grappling with the errors of our times.
The rapid spread of the belief in Spiritualism at the present time is
well known, and it arises, not from the performances of paid media, but
from the existence of unexplained physical phenomena that are oc¬
curring daily in private families throughout the country. These it is
which, laying the mind open to credulity, render imposture practicable,
and if we are to escape falling into the absurdities of past ages re¬
specting necromancy, it will be because we have the light of science to
guide us. But how is science to play its part if gentlemen professing
to be anthropologists are afflicted with a superstitious terror of this
subject, and are content to limit their investigations exclusively to old
mounds, old scratches, or the relative position of people’s toes ? Our
study is man, and we must take him as we find him, with all his
credulity and imposture, and, I may add, his unwarrantable assumption
of knowledge respecting nature.’ If he were really the (ihomo sapiens ”
that Linue termed him, he would ill serve our purpose of interpreting
past history. Science has a perfect right to veto the intrusion of
empirics, upon ground that it has already reclaimed from the abyss and
mapped out as its own, but can it be said to have any such standing
ground in the domain of the will and consciousness ? Confessedly not.
It is absurd to speak of all previous experience in a field of inquiry
where there is no experience. Where there is the faintest indication
of a beaten track, it is proper to follow it; but where, as in this case,
we are entirely ignorant of our bearings, I submit that the proper
attitude of science is to be open to conviction all round. If the Spirit¬
ualist, impelled by his hallucinations, or whatever we may be pleased
to call them, can bring in evidence of a proper kind, we are bound to
examine it. We have no right to stigmatise any class of evidence as
common or unclean which appeals to us in the shape of facts that are
appreciable by the senses.—I remain, Sir, yours obediently,
A. Lane Fox, F.R.S.,
President of the Anthropological Institute
TESTIMONY OF PROF. BARRETT, P.R.S.E.
Sir,—I am quite sure all those who, like myself, think the so-called
phenomena of Spiritualism should receive a rigorous and searching
examination, regardless of the result, will be glad that Professor Bay
Lankester has taken up the matter, so far, at least, as his attempt to
clear one “ medium ” out of the way may be regarded as a beginning. I
say “ attempt,” for, though it is obvious that if Slade be guilty of fraud
in one case, he is open to suspicion in all, yet I do not think Professor
Lankester’s exposure by any means covers all that myself and several
scientific friends have witnessed of Slade’s performances.
Soon after my first sitting with Slade I noticed the same suspicious
circumstances to which Professor Lankester alludes—namely, the move¬
ment of the tendons of the wrist, the coughing, fidgetting, &c., and, in
addition, the fact of Slade always sitting back to the light and sideways,
so that the front of his person is in comparative shade, though generally
in full view. Naturally the first explanation that suggested itself was
one somewhat like that given by Professor Lankester, but observations
on several subsequent sittings to test this and other theories failed, in
my opinion, to establish any one of them so conclusively as Professor
Lankester asserts.
Instead of forcibly interrupting Sla,de and discovering writing when
none was supposed to be present—which is the substance of Professor
Lankester’s exposure, and to which Slade might furnish a ready reply,
based upon his ignorance of when the writing actually does occur—I
made the following experiment:—Taking a slate clean on both sides, I
placed it on the table so that it rested above, although its surface could
not touch a fragment of slate pencil. In this position I held the slate
firmly down with my elbow; one of Slade’s hands was then grasped by
mine, and the tips of the fingers of his other hand barely touched the
slate. While closely watching both of Slade’s hands, which did not
move perceptibly, I certainly was much astonished to hear scratching
108
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 29, 1876.
going on apparently on. the under side of the table, and when the slate
was lifted up I found the side facing the table covered with writing. A
similar result was obtained on other days; farther, an eminent scientific
friend obtained writing on a clean slate when it was held entirely in his
own hand, both of Slade’s being on the table.
On the other hand Slade failed to procure writing on a slate enclosed,
along with a fragment of pencil, in a sealed box; he also failed when I
used a box with a tortuous passage to allow the introduction of such
Viifa /if non nil a a ani fori Ilia fun av • li o rlonlinorl +n f.rw an rl crot. to ri fin or
mJLLS UJl JJt/i-lC'i.X 2x9 DlAXoCvA XJLX0 j XIO 'AC/OAlixt/vJ. OjjLLvA YYXXliXlJ^ . j
within a hinged slate that was sealed, but he succeeded when the i
hinged slate was used unfastened; and again he failed, according to the i|
writer of an article in the Spectator, when a hinged slate with a spring j
lock was used. These and other circumstances are, it is true, decidedly i |
against Slade. My own impression is that the writing Slade exhibits i
is done in two different ways: In one, where short, badly-written j j
messages are obtained, and where the scrap of pencil is always found at ||
the end of the last stroke, these may possibly be done in some such i
manner as that suggested by Professor Lankester and Dr. Donkin, ]}
though it is difficult to see how ; the other longer messages, where the ij
fragment of pencil never re-appears, are too lengthy, and often too j
curiously and carefully written, to be done in the way your correspondent j ;
suggests, even were there not other reasons against it. These messages, j
however, may be written beforehand, and by clever sleight-of-hand the i
apparently clean slate may be changed for one already prepared. Yet i
no one has detected this. But because Slade may remain undetected j
is no proof that he is not a clever conjurer. Messrs. Maskelyne and jj
Cooke’s manager, Mr. Morton, after ten years’observation, has failed ij
to discover how Mr. Maskelyne does his cabinet trick; yet his oppor- |
tunities for discovery are very great. Moreover, experience has shown ij
that if “ Spiritualism ” is to be investigated, it must not be through j
paid professional “mediums,” upon whom little reliance can ever be i
placed. i
In conclusion, will you permit me to ask those who are ready to |
condemn the course I took at Glasgow, to bear in mind that my paper |(
in the Anthropological Department of the British Association was j
simply a plea for a systematic and scientific inquiry into two classes of j
obscure phenomena associated with abnormal states of the nervous jj
system. One of these classes—mesmerism—is to a great extent now j!
undisputed by such authorities as Drs. Maudsley, Carpenter, and jj
others. In my paper I gave evidence to believe that a substantial ij
addition to the knowledge of the physiology of mind was to be hoped j j
for by a further study of this subject, unfettered by existing prejudices, jj
The other class of phenomena, known as “ Spiritualism,’’ I approached j
with more hesitation, and dealt with more briefly. While showing that j
unconscious self-deception and trickery undoubtedly played a con- j
siderable part in these “manifestations,” I could not, on these grounds, jj
explain the case of a very young “ medium ”—the child of parents in jj
good position in society—who came under my own lengthened observa- j
tion; nor could the many cases testified to by cautious and skilful j
investigators be so easily disposed of; nor is it possible to explain away ij
the fact that every honest sceptic, so far as I know, who has patiently j
set to work to make a thorough investigation of this subject, believing j
he should be able to unravel or expose it, has been defeated in both jj
these objects. I
For my own part, I am inclined to believe other mental phenomena j!
—such, for example, as the possibility of the action of one mind upon jj
another, across space, without the intervention of the senses—demand 'jj
a prior investigation. That cases of such mental action at a distance j j
do really exist, I, in common with others, have some reason to believe; j |
but, before they can be generally accepted, the evidence must accumu- jj
late and be thoroughly sifted. I hope that some one more competent, j j
and having more leisure than myself, will ultimately take up this j
question, but meanwhile I shall be glad to receive communications jj
(addressed to Monkstown, Dublin) from anyone who can furnish me jj
with trustworthy evidence on two points:—1, cases of the direct action jj
of one mind upon another, giving rise to an apparent transfusion of j
thought or feeling, occurring in general to persons reduced to an ij
extremely sensitive condition, either by illness or by what is popularly j
known as “ mesmeric trance; ” 2, cases which seem to give evidence of jj
the temporary possession of what may be termed a sixth sense—that is, jj
of perception, independent of the ordinary channels of sensation. I jj
must beg those who may kindly send me such cases to take great care j
lest sources of error be introduced from unconscious muscular signs on jj
the part of the observer, or from the keen “ muscular sense ” and the jj
general exaltation of the other senses, which, in these morbid condi- j j
tions, are likely to exist on the part of the subject. Whether careful j
inquiry will prove that every case coming under these two heads can be j j
referred to already known physiological laws or not remains to be seen; j
but many friends, to whose opinion I attach much weight, agree with i
me in thinking that such inquiry should, at any rate, be made.—I am, j
sir, your obedient servant, W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.E., ij
Professor of Physics, Royal College of Science, Dublin, j
JOINT ASSERTIONS OP PROF. LANKESTER AND DR. H. B. DONKIN.
Sir,—We state most emphatically with regard to the message found
written on the slate when it was seized by one of us (Professor Lan¬
kester) from Slade’s hand last Friday—1. That it is untrue that Slade
said, either before or after inviting Professor Lankester to place his
hand on the slate, “ They are writing now” ; that it is equally untrue
that he said any words which had such a meaning, or, having such a
meaning, could be misunderstood in any other sense. 2. That we had
both seen him after the slate had been cleaned for the last time, and
before his invitation to Professor Lankester, make movements with
his right arm as if writing, while the slate was in front of him and
concealed from our view by the table, and that during this time we
heard the sound of writing on the slate. 3. That he then raised the
j slate and placed it in a position under the corner of the table, inviting
Professor Lankester to hold it with them, and that instantaneously the
slate was withdrawn by that gentleman. 4. That it is absolutely un¬
true that there were then found only two or three words on the slate.
On the contrary, we state that the following words were then found
written on the upper surface of the slate :—“ I am glad to meet you,
Edwin Lankester ’’—the signature being particularly clear. The slate
was immediately carried by Professor Lankester into the ante-room,
where he explained what had occurred to four or five gentlemen who
were waiting for an interview with Slade. Slade followed us into the
ante-room, but neither then nor previously did he attempt to offer any
explanation. The clearness of the signature in this intercepted message
is explained by the fact mentioned in Dr. Donkin’s first letter—namely,
that the message immediately preceding it consisted simply of the two
words “ Samuel Lankester,” which were badly written. We both
urged upon Slade that the word “ Samuel ” might really be “ Edwin,”
though it clearly enough was not, intending him to adopt the sug¬
gestion—which he did, boldly and vigorously.
The account which Slade gives of the earlier part of our interview
with him is untrue, since there were two separate messages written on
the slate previously to the one consisting of the words “ Samuel Lan¬
kester.”—We are, sir, faithfully yours, E. Bay Lankester.
Horatio B. Donkin.
September 21.  
dr. blade’s reply to some points of prof, barrett’s letter.
Sir,—In Professor Barrett’s statements published in the Times to¬
day I think he erred (I hope unintentionally) in saying :—“ Slade
failed to procure the writing on a slate enclosed, along with a frag¬
ment of pencil, in a sealed box ; he also failed when I used a box with
a tortuous passage to allow the introduction of such bits of pencil as
suited his fancy ; he declined to try and get writing within a hinged
slate that was sealed, but succeeded when the hinged slate was un¬
fastened ; and again he failed, according to the writer of an article in
the Spectator, when a spring lock was used.”
Instead of trying to obtain writing on the Professor’s boxed slates,
I declined using them at all. I assured him they would not be used,
and gave him my reasons for objecting. He urged me strongly to
make the experiment, and placed the box containing the slate on the
table, where it remained undisturbed until he put it on the slate, which
I held, with the box on it, under the table for a short time, when, as
I had hoped, nothing occurred. This he calls a failure.
Mr. Simmons says that Professor Barrett, on entering the drawing¬
room after the sitting, told him that Dr. Slade had refused to use the
boxed slates ; that he had left them in the room where the sitting was
held, hoping he (Dr. Slade) would make the trial at some future time.
Having had at least fifteen years’ experience in demonstrating the
fact of various phenomena occurring in my presence, I claim to know
something of the conditions required. At the same time I do not know
how they are produced. I do not object to persons bringing an ordinary
slate, either single or folding, but I do object to using locks, boxes, or
seals, for this reason—I claim to be as honest and earnest in this matter
as those who call upon me for the purpose of investigation. There¬
fore, I shall continue to object to all such worthless appliances when¬
ever they are proposed.
Mark the following, which Professor Barrett also says :—“ Taking a
clean slate on both sides, I placed it on the table so that it rested above,
though it could not touch, a fragment of slate pencil. In this position
I held the slate firmly down with my elbow. One of Slade’s hands
was then grasped by mine, and the tips of the fingers of his other
hand barely touched the slate. While closely watching both of Slade’s
hands, which did not move perceptibly, 1 certainly was much aston¬
ished to hear scratching going on apparently on the under side of the
slate, and when the slate was lifted up I found the side facing the table
covered with writing.” He also says a similar result was obtained on
other days ; “ further, an eminent scientific friend obtained writing on
a clean slate when it was held entirely in his own hand, both of Slade’s
being on the table.”
The above being true, would the fact of the writing being produced
by some agency foreign to myself have been more strongly established
had it occurred on the Professor’s boxed slate ? I think the reader will
agree with me in saying it would not.
On the other hand, had it so occurred and a statement of it been
published, it would only have served as an incentive for others to con¬
jure up some plan whereby they might prevent an occurrence of phe¬
nomena, instead of being content to witness them in the simple manner
in which they do occur. To my mind it would be as reasonable to
sever the wire and then ask the operator to send your message, as it is
to violate the conditions which experience has taught me are essential
in these experiments in order to obtain successful results ; and when
the investigator comes in the spirit of a seeker for truth, instead of
trying to prove me an impostor, I shall be most happy to unite with
him in the further pursuit of these experiments.—Very truly yours,
Henry Slade.
8, Upper Bedford-placo, Sept. 22.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the North.—On Sunday, September 17th, Mr.
Morse delivered two trance lectures in the Miners’ Hall, Wigan, on each
occasion to crowded audiences. They were the first public lectures on
Spiritualism ever delivered in the town. A favourable impression ap¬
peared to be produced. On Sunday last, Mr. Morse delivered two trance
lectures in the old County Court Rooms, at Halifax, at 2.30, and 4.30 p.m.
His other engagements are—Newcastle-on-Tyne, October 1st and 2nd;
London, October 8th • Batley Carr, October 14th and 15th; Liverpool,
November 12th. Mr. Morse is desirous of completing his list of engage¬
ments for the coming season, and will be glad to hear from societies to
that effect as early as possible. All letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Sept. 29, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the Englisli and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been,
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDAEY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by tha Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, . by William Crookes, F.R.S. Thd best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
.PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rey.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be hr means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten’. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth ,
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. BourchierWrev Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. PoeiRs, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORV
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. cd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com-
petitiop by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub, At 7s. 6d.) 4s..
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ . • •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . -
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . ,
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
.76
.76
. 7 6
.76
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
.Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by; the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ' . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance. Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Baith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ,36
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . ' . . ■ 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 16
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby; 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; J. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M,
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: " There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. Sd.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E, T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept., 29, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
walisir, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SpritucUist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
T>OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
Jl LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a traice medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex-
tenoed her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterar cas, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY and Rich. London Spirit-
uali^t Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
H.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in A inerica. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24,'Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume! Terms
o f subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, "W.C.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustiative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Pans, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. W e perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist N ewepaper Branch Office.
ANN ALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 28.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4'/6, cloth, 7s. 6d.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancu Office.
FTIHE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
Jl WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have ihe same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
Ihe Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FT'HE RELTGIO - PHILOSOPHICAL
JL JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1866.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribars welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
89, Great Marlborough Street,
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tin EL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s. ,
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arrange! by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4b.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION. '
MISS TBEHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir,-words, by "Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED. RAWLINGS-—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
' wen, 4s. Beware, words, by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
; To the Ctickoo, 6d.
JOHN UR1CH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Food, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi-
Cafed to Samuel Plimsoll Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhjme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
PRIZE ESSAYS OP THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica'ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. l£d., post free.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRII’UALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
strcet, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. l$d.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “ Grannie ”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of boobs, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
Ihe Seeond Volume of The Identity of Primitiv
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS. v
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and EcstaCy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Pr»yer. .
XI.—The Ministry'of Angels.
XII.—Death. '
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and thq.Churcb.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science:
. XVI.—Conclusion. • . .
The above work has just be«n issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
■ journal devoted to the f- piriiual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &e., &e. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Reflexionen aus der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly, Buda-
Pesth: Jofefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. . London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Cjie fUtosppr,
Estaulished in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedi.etday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualistwill be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Mariadane, London,-
E.O. if -
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria>-lane, London, E.C.
