gf \
ty\C>
i
A RECORD OF THE PROQI^E^^ OF THE jSCIEJ^CE AND ETHIC3 Of £PIF(ITUA]LI£M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 48. (Vol. III.—No. 9.)
LONDON: MARCH 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Contents.
How Spiritualism Grows  130
Spiritual Powers      130
Review:—Another World, or Fragments from the Star City of Mon-
talluyah : ... ...     ...  J ... 132
Spirit Forms and Faces        133
Correspondence:—The Protection of Media; Sham Manifestations at
the Crystal PalaCe ...   135
Stage Imitations; of Spiritual Phenomena —Messrs. Maskelyne and -
Cooke's Performances; A Theatrical Seance; Floating in the Air by
Machinery; Cabinet Tricks at the Crystal Palace; The Box Trick;
Survival of Decapitation  13(5
The Davenport Brothers     139-
A Case of Obsession ... ... ...      14,0
Mrs.,Holmes’s Mediumship  i   142
Spiritualism in Edinburgh  142
The Psychological Committee    142
Theology, Philosophy, and Logie  '  143
The Belief of a Savage - ...   143
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENaUlllERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription, 3s. per quarter in advance. Titos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
MISS GODFREY,, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant, Examination and ■ complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per wCek, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may^be seen, by appointment, at 101, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’CJock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, AVells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
MR. and MRS. HOLMES, from New Orleans, La,
U.S.A., will hold a PUBLIC LIGHT AND DARK SEANCE on
Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings at 8 o’clock. Fee 5s.
Private seances on Tuesday and Friday at 8 o’clock ; also any day at 4
o’clock by special agreement. On Saturday evenings a special seance for
Spiritualists only. 16, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, Marble Arch, W.
British imperial insurance corporation,
, ' LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
■ Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks'or £l Each.
I Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
, Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man'
Chester,
William GimberGoodliffk, Accountant General, IndiaOffiee, WestmihSte
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 574, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with'some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
I amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the ,
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant, failing to continue the .
\ payment of his premiums, only sufficient .thereof is detained by the Corpora- -
! tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
| was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
I The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the '
| Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
| premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with- -
! drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
EB1RD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
9 Gasfitter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
TL>RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
-D LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING. ;
Head O^ces.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
mHOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONEU, CIR-
CHEATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aaron fkanklin, presekyer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.-—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
j. loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
i places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora-
' tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photograjjher on EncmrSi to the Queen.
EPPS’S. CO CO A. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“.By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with, a' delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ Rills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic. Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage,
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained, i
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
CIj£ Sjamtmtii'sf Uetospapr,
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS :-Three shillings
and. sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondkncjj.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may he longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. TF. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN' FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 333, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street!
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling. .
HOW SPIRITUALISM GROWS.
A knowledge of some of the conditions which influ¬
ence the growth of the Spiritual movement is useful,
because it influences the conduct of those who desire to
promote the public welfare, by bringing the facts of
Spiritualism home to the intellect and heart of every
living soul. This knowledge can only be obtained by
experience. The truths of Spiritualism may be dis¬
seminated by verbal teaching and by practical demon¬
stration. The first plan was tried in Kilburn and
North London, for a year or more, by Messrs. Pearce,
Swinton, and others; they did scarcely anything in
the matter of presenting the phenomena for the observ¬
ation of enquirers, but by speaking and printing they
disseminated information, and impressed upon those
who were interested the necessity of testing the matter
in their own homes. The result of this was that
they disseminated a knowledge of Spiritualism far
and wide in the district, causing many new spirit circles
to be formed, and new mediums to be developed, so
that to the present day the influence of the labours of
the Kilburn Society of Spiritualists is felt in many a
home. By lecturing and printing the whole subject
may be fairly argued out in any district, and those per¬
sons who have a natural tendency to enter into the
ranks of Spiritualism quickly test the reality of the
phenomena among themselves. A great advantage of
this plan of action is, that people uninterested in the
subject, and not naturally of a spiritual turn of mind,
are not introduced to existing spirit circles to spoil the
manifestations and worry the mediums.
Spiritualism has an organic growth of its own, which
can neither be much accelerated nor much retarded by
March 15, 1873.
external conditions. Discussions in the Times and
other newspapers make no converts ; they simply very
slightly accelerate the growth of the movement, by
loosening the surrounding soil, or, in other words, by
lessening the popular prejudice. The circulation of the
Spiritual periodicals gives decided statistical evidence
that Spiritualism grows very slowly and very steadily,
irrespective almost of favourable or adverse external
conditions. It separates from the mass of society per¬
sons mentally fitted to enter its ranks, and remorselessly
shuts out others whose mental nature places them out¬
side its pale. Those who are once thoroughly imbued
with Spiritualism never desert the standard to return to
the dust and ashes of theological speculations. Spirit¬
ualism fights for every inch of ground it gains', hut its
progress is sure and strong, and every convert has
practical demonstration of the truth of the subject.
Hard, worldly people, who cheat or injure each other,
cannot possibly enter the inner circles of Spiritualism,
and anybody who studies the mental and moral charac¬
teristics of individuals, can tell what persons can easily
be converted to Spiritualism, also what persons it is
utterly impossible to bring into the movement, however
much pains may be taken by their friends to make con¬
verts of them.
The suspicious appearances surrounding a large pro¬
portion of the spiritual phenomena, act very bene¬
ficially as a sieve or filter, through which persons of
an inferior mental nature cannot penetrate. Per¬
severing hard work is necessary to pierce through this
barrier, which at once repels superficial and suspicious
enquirers. Those only who have some confidence in
human nature, and do not distrust the integrity of the
friends who have previously passed through the barrier,
at last discover the reality of the brilliant truths beyond
the external cloud. Thus, Spiritualists are spiritually
united, held together by mutual confidence and mutual
affection, more than by mere agreement as to the reality
of certain mechanical effects. A garotter and a phi¬
losopher may agree as to the breaking strain of a bar
of iron, or as to the reality of any other physical fact,
but no spiritual union is thereby established between
them. Spiritual phenomena, on the other hand, so
operate on the minds of enquirers, as to separate from
the outside world, and bring together people in mental
sympathy with each other, and with things spiritual.
Hence the tendency of Spiritualism is to twine itself
round the affections and the innermost social life of its
converts, whereby the movement acquires a strength
altogether unknown in bodies united by conditions of
a more worldly and external nature,,
SPIRITUAL POWERS.
The following lines are quoted from A Lyric of the
Golden Aye,* a spirit poem, delivered through the
trance-mediumship of Mr. T. L. Harris, and taken
down in shorthand as the words fell from his lips. It
will be remembered that Mr. Harris was the head of the
American community joined a few years since by Mr.
Laurence Oliphant, M.P.:—
Through harmony in body, heart and brain,
Through harmony of wisdom, love and use,
Man blooms in every faculty of soul,
And every organ of the cultured mind,
And consciousness itself becomes inspired,
And man reflects the streaming thoughts that shine
Through spirit atmospheres upon the world.
* Published by John Thomson, 39, Holm-street, Glasgow.
March 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
He takes impressions from the entities
Of the Divine Existence ; in his sleep
He passes through the golden gate that opes
Into the splendours of the Spirit-world ;
He wakes beyond the body and its sphere,
He is at liberty from outward things.
This state of inner waking is beyond
The state men first take on beyond the grave,
Because the nervous essence that first clothes
The spirit, leaving the dissolving form,
When mind becomes clairvoyant, yet remains
Connected with the outer particles ;
And when this state grows perfect, man ascends
The spiral pathway of the tipper life,
His errors being dormant, and he learns
Eternal and unutterable things,
That never are and never can be known
Till all the outward faculties of man
In perfect harmony prevent no ray,
But shine translucent from the light above.
Men cannot tell the secrets of the life
Beyond the portals of the natural sphere ;
At best they dimly shadow out the truth,—
Too glorious ’tis for mortal minds to bear.
When mortal puts on immortality,
Corruption incorruption, when the grave
Hath lost its sting and death its victory,
When, free from all the passions of the earth,
The soul becomes a conscious element
In the One Harmony that moves through all,
Man is translated to a realm of thought
Incomprehensible to minds in time.
A language infinite in thought, whose tones
Are as the accents of Almighty God,
Assumes the place of the external tongue.
He speaks as he is wrought upon by powers
Innumerable and beyond himself,
And can at will in perfect freedom change
His state each hour, as crystals change their hue,
Turned at a varied angle to the sun.
Humanity in heaven has varied forms ;
Each Race of Angels differs in the sphere
Of its delight. Celestial faculties,
Varied as hues and harmonies of morn
And noon and sunset, alternating, give
Each various race some glory which is new
And special, and its own appropriate name.
This speciality may be received
By radiant spirits of each kindred sphere.
On earth men send their writings to their friends ;
In heaven they give divinely glorious states,
Transmuting by the mighty alchemy
Of thought the spheral air around their friends ;
And filling up the void with images
Of loveliest truths in loveliest forms combined,
Whose beauty winds like groves of Paradise
Bound the tranced Angel whom they visit.
Angelic lovers give their blended love ;
Sages their intellectual realms of truth;
Poets inspire the spirit till it grows
Itself a melody, and floats afar
Through unimagined realms and seas of bliss,
And universal heavens of happy life.
Men give cold thoughts and words on earth below,
But living worlds and spheres of bliss above.
Shakespeare gave Hamlet, Romeo, Juliet,
Art-forms that, clothed with beauty, walk the world
And multiply themselves in every brain ;
Cordelia, Desdemona, crownless Lear,
Timon and Shy lock, Falstaff and his crew,
Titania, Puck and Oberon, and all
The fays of that sweet Midsummer-Night’s Dream,
Ariel, Miranda, gifted Prospero,
Each form the type of some essential state
Of mind or heart, some gift or sphere of power,
Some use or prescience of the intellect;
His thoughts have grown art-poems to the world,
Sweet, deathless entities, for he became
Creative. All the Angel-peopled sun
Is one transcendent Art-realm, where unfold
Myriads on myriads of evolving forms,
Which the artistic faculties of mind
Create, projecting outward from themselves ;
And Angels dramatize their radiant thoughts,
Marshalled in stately theatres, that ope
Their vast prosceniums for the inner sight.
Pass info rapport with an Angel’s mind,
And it becomes to you a living world,
Because each thought has its appropriate form.
The idea in the image grows revealed ;
Therefore the wonders of the life to be
Transcend imagination. Every mind
Creates a universe within itself,
As various as the worlds that people space,
The constellations of the singing stars,
The multitudinous angel-peopled isles,
Transferring all it sees, or hears, or thinks,
All its enjoyments, all its ecstacies,
Into its own pure being, there to be
Form in the picture gallery of the brain,
And statues in the Pantheon of the soul,
And landscapes in the spheres of memory,
Beatified in its perpetual life.
Man hath such universe within himself,
Even while he dwells below ; strange are the beams
That gild the mountains of the soul in sleep,
The happy valleys, whose fair landscapes lie
Bathed in purpureal haloes, that disclose
Temple and palace, grotto, glen and lake,
And silver stream and lotus-covered pool,
And waterfall with rainbows glittering o’er ;—
That world is man’s own consciousness revealed.
’Tis hard to give man’s thoughts to the child’s brain,
Or outward light to infants in the womb;
So hard it is to give to mortal man
Defined conceptions of immortal life.
The charge of mysticism that all time
Has aimed at Revelation, is deserved.
And mystery is the setting of the soul,
Receding in the dimness of its sleep.
When all the senses lie diffused in rest,
And an apparent death usurps the place
Of the accustomed habitude of man,
When eye and ear alike have lost their power,
How wonderful is that enchanted state ;
And yet ’tis vailed in deepest mystery all.
Suppose no man had ever slept and dreamed,
And one should rise among his fellow-men
Able to pass into that mystic realm
Of outward slumber and interior sight;—
Men comprehend things by experience,
And, since his differed from the world around,
No other man knowing the state of sleep,
He would be styled a liar and a knave,
Chained in a madhouse, torn by human wolves,
Doomed by the Church and exiled by mankind.
The argument, that nothing ever came
From Spirits or the Spiritual World
Is very ancient. The Philosopher
Said to the Seer, “ All that you see I know.”
The Seer, in his deep wisdom, made reply,
“ All that you know I see.” The outward mind
Shines in reflected beams and borrowed rays
From inspirations through all ancient time
Diffused, and made a part of the world’s thought;
The Seer, upon the other hand, discerns,
W ith an original insight, what the world
Takes from its ancestral authority.
All that Isaiah saw was seen before, -
And yet his state was real; all ablaze
Before him shone the New Jerusalem.
The Spirit-movements of the Present Age
Approve themselves as real as the old,
Because the same objection smites at each ;
That is, that they are mystical and dim.
Till they become each man’s experience,
All spiritual states are mystical.
Till man unfolds new faculties of mind,
And floats into the harmony of things,
Inhales the fragrance of the blessed spheres,
And rests within the perfect peace of God
That passeth understanding, Inner Life
Seems to the mind upon its sensuous plane
The poet’s fancy and enthusiast’s dream.
132
THE SPIliITtrALIST.
March 15, 187§.
As the great atmosphere, whose massive weight
Presses upon the body, is not felt,
The mightier Spirit-ether, that descends
And holds the spirit in its fixed embrace,
Is all unknown, though in its breath we live.
Through solid substance runs th’ electric flame,
Invisible to sight ; the mountains ope
For its mysterious movement, and the sea ;
So flashes thought; the Spirit like a sun,
Yet shaped in human form, in luminous robe
Of living light, pervades the natural sphere ;
And thoughts, like sun-fires, penetrate the world,
And go where they are sent; so mind with mind
Communicates though oceans roll between.
Affinity determines intercourse.
Surely as chemical affinities
Unite and blend material particles.
Moral affinities unite mankind.
AH men are parts of one another; none
Live separate from the being of the race ;
All share in its ascension ; for a time,
Perhaps, misled and trodden under foot,
But destined at the last to culminate,
Rise with its sun and triumph with its noon.
There is a triumphing, all-conquering law—
The evolution of interior powers,
Which makes all men seraphic and complete
In the Integral harmony of life,
VYrought out by God, through inmosts of the soul,
To ultimates of the external form ;—•
’Tis fixed in the necessity of things.
Peal the great Truth from star to answering star,
Blazon it on thy shield, 0 orb of day,
Breathe it in all your sweets, ye summer flowers,
Chant it, ye winds, in all your harmonies.
Let the dull midnight feel it, let the grave,
Until it bursts its massive gates to let
The conquering Lord of light and mercy in.
Chant it in temples that no human hands
Have built on heavenly mountains in the skies,
Angels and hierarchs of truth and love :—
Messiah-like, God-manifest in law,
As once in flesh, the Harmonizing Power
Streams from the Infinite, pervades mankind,
Uplifts the blind from ignorance and sin,
Smites down the idols of mythology,
Raises the dead world from its grave, reveals
Immortal light to the recovered blind,
Restores the paralytic sons of fear
To intellectual vigour, wipes away
All tear-drops from all eyes, and feeds the race
With science, art and culture multiplied,
And clothing all the world with plenteousness.
While Angels chant “ Glory to God on high,
And peace on earth and love for evermore.”
Another World, or Fragments from the Star City of
Montalluyah. By Hermes. London: Samuel Tins¬
ley. 1873.
This is a curious book, which professes to describe
the manners and customs of people dwelling upon
another placet. In the preface the editor of the book
states that the account is derived not from the imagi¬
nation but from actual knowledge, and is not written
as a satire upon the follies of mankind. He adds that
many years passed away, and many tests were applied,
before all doubts as to the reliability of the information
received were removed from his own mind, but that if
he attempted to explain how the facts reached him, the
incredulity of the reader would be increased, because
similar experiences would be outside the pale of his
own knowledge.
Accepting the statement of the anonymous editor,
that he believes the contents of the book to be drawn
from actual knowledge, the probability is that the nar¬
rative was given through the mediumship of a private
individual. It is not impossible that spirits from another
planet may sometimes communicate, with more,or less
precision through a medium ; it is also not impossible
that scenes upon another world may be observed through
the agency of clairvoyance, though many long years
must pass away before all the sources of error incidental
to the obtaining of knowledge by these methods, can be
understood and eliminated. The statements made in
the book are like those which might be received through
a partially developed trance or writing medium. In
such cases the messages are often very much uncon¬
sciously coloured by the thoughts of the medium, espe¬
cially when the medium is one who never becomes
insensible while the communications are being given.
The professed author of the book narrates how he
became the chief ruler of Montalluyah, and at once
began to reform the evils existing in society through¬
out his empire; but the circumstance is palpable that the
evils he had to remove were precisely those which
afflict English society at the present day. There is
less difference at the outset, between the dwellers in
London and the dwellers in Montalluyah, than there is
between an Englishman and a Chinaman. Thus, the
description of the original condition of Montalluyah
would appear to have been conceived in an English
brain, or to have had to pass through the brain of an
English person before it was written. When it is
remembered that the differences in the force of gravity
and the amount of temperature, would cause such very
great physical differences in all kinds of organic life
upon another planet, as compared with organic life
upon the earth, when also the variations in the length
of day and night are considered, it becomes the more
evident that many of the thoughts in the book are of
mundane origin. A vague idea pervades the popular
English mind, that electricity has extraordinary powers.
If a table rises in the air, or anything inexplicable
takes place, Mrs. Grundy often satisfies her own mind
with the remark, “ It’s all electricity ! ” In the book
now under notice, there are said to be many different
kinds of electricity which are applied upon another
planet to a great variety of useful purposes, yet no
practical information is given in the book how to sepa¬
rate the alleged different kinds of electricities, or how
to apply them to the useful purposes mentioned, so
that the communication stops just where it might begin
to be valuable. The editor of the book, it is but fair
to state, is conscious of the shortcomings just men¬
tioned. He says, speaking of himself in the third
person,—
If the fragments had been less fragmentary, and fuller in •
formation had been offered on the various subjects which fall
under consideration, he would have been better satisfied.
Nevertheless he reflects that it would be hardly reasonable to
expect in facts made known under exceptional circumstances,
the fulness of detail which we have a right to demand, when
on our own planet we essay to make discoveries at the cost
only of labour and research. He looks upon the fragments as
” intellectual aerolites,” whichliave dropped here, uninfluenced
by the will of man ; as varied pieces detached from the mass
of facts which constitute the possessions of another planet,
and rather as thrown by nature into rugged heaps than as
having been symmetrically arranged by the hand of an artist.
In all mediumship, the individuality of the medium
and the individuality of the communicating spirit seem
-to be blended; sometimes the one preponderates and
sometimes the other. The best mediums are easily
and frequently entranced. The less developed mediums
THE SPIRITUALIST.
133
March 15, 1873.
are seldom or never entranced ; and the messages
through these are usually very considerably uncon¬
sciously coloured by their own thoughts and modes of
expression. If the contents of the book before us were
given through mediumship, there would appear to be
more of the individuality of the medium than of the
spirit in the messages received, and whether the spirit
attempting to communicate belonged to the earth or
another planet, we think there is no evidence in the
book to show. All communications of this kind should,
however, be printed, with full particulars about the
method by which they were given, and a description of
the development of the mediumship, so that the matter
published may be of use to the rising body of students
of mental science.
The book is an entertaining one, and contains sug¬
gestions of a valuable character relating to education
and to social reforms. To the general reader it will be
of as much interest as the late Lord Lytton’s book,
The Coming Race, it being a work of somewhat the
same style.
SPIRIT FORMS AND FACES.
Occasionally, though not often, the work of observ¬
ing the development of phenomena and of trying ex¬
periments at the spirit circle held at the house of Mr.
H. Cook, at Hackney, is retarded for the purpose of
trying physical tests for the benefit of Spiritualists not
present. Mr. Blackburn devised one test which has
recently been tried, by which a lock of Miss Cook’s
hair (which is all really growing on her head) is
brought out through an orifice in the lower part of the
cabinet, and the end fastened outside. Spirit faces and
hands then show themselves at the aperture high above,
in the manner described in the following letter:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—On Saturday, the 1st of March, I was at Mr. Cook’s
circle. Before going into the details of the sitting, I had,
perhaps, better refer you to the, ac¬
companying diagram, Fig. 1, in which
N K is the floor of the cabinet; A
B a piece of tape round Miss Cook's
waist, securely knotted and sealed at
B. D a piece of brass fastened by
two screws to the floor inside the
cabinet; seals were put over the
heads of these screws, so that no
screwdriver could be introduced
“D g the wax. The
F tape was then passed from B through
a hole in the brass at D, thence
through the cabinet door at E, and
the end tied to a chair outside at F.
The leg of the chair was placed on
a piece of white paper, so that the
least movement would have been in¬
dicated. When Miss Cook was thus
secured, faces were shown as usual.
I will not give a detailed account of
them, as it has been so often done in the Spiritualist. A
break in the seance now took place, and on our returning to
the seance room, Miss Cook was tied as above, but in addition
her hands were tied together, and to the front part of the tape
which was round her waist; all the knots were carefully sealed.
When she had been in the cabinet some little time, Katie
asked for a piece of tape ; two or three yards were given to
her, which she threw out with great indignation, saying it was
not half enough ; seven or eight yards were then handed in,
and in a very few minutes we were requested to open the
cabinet, when we found each of Miss Cook’s feet tied securely
to « leg of the chair. Both her arms above the elbow were
tied very tightly with double knots, then the two ends secured
to the back part of the. chair on which she sat. Katie re¬
quested that all the knots might be untied; a lady was deputed
to do this, and it took; by my watch, rather more than eight
Fxa. i.
minutes to accomplish it, the point of a pair of scissors being
necessary to loosen some of the knots. A new experiment was
then attempted, but as it was not successful, I need not occupy
space by recording it.
On Monday, the 3rd of March, I was again at Mr. Cook’s
when only Mr. Cook’s family, Mr. Harrison, Mr. Pycock,
and myself were present. We now agreed that no test should
be applied, but that the cabinet should be arranged as de¬
scribed in Mr. Tapp’s letter in the SpiHtualist of the 1st inst.
This Ttyas done, and when Miss Cook was in the cabinet, the
light was nearly extinguished. After a short interval, a white,
full length figure was dimly visible ; in a few minutes we were
allowed to have more light, but still to keep the gas rather low.
The shawl or rug in front was then seen to be pulled back,
and a white figure showed herself full length, which appeared
to me to be quite two, if not three, inches taller than Miss
Cook ; her feet and hands were bare, and much larger than
Miss Cook’s. I could clearly distinguish every toe, and on my
saying she was taller than Miss Cook, she stamped her foot on
the ground to show she was not on tiptoe. She lifted her
dress, and we saw her bare leg a few inches above the ankle.
She stooped, picked up paper from the floor, and also took
paper and my pencil from a table near the cabinet; -then, in
our presence, wrote on different pieces of paper. One was
directed to me, and was as follows:—
Soon I shall be -able to give tHis manifestation under test conditions,
but for a little time I must have my own way. If I had bad proper condi¬
tions, I could have done this before.—A. Morgan.
I should say that she stood writing in our presence five
minutes ; I did not look at my watch, so cannot be very posi¬
tive on this point. Before Katie left, and the first part of the
seance closed, we asked her if a test proposed by Mr. Black¬
burn could be safely tried; and on her replying in the
affirmative, we opened the cabinet, awoke Miss Cook (whom
we found entranced), and went upstairs for refreshments.
On returning to the seance room, Miss Cook's hands were tied
together with tape, and the knot sealed. A lock of Miss Cook’s
hair was then passed through a bodkin and tied with twine,
so that the hair could not get out of the eye of the bodkin.
Hair and bodkin, after Miss Cook had seated herself, were
passed though the division between the door and the portion
of the cabinet to which the hinges are attached; on this
occasion the hair was about two
inches above K,Fig. 2. The bottom of
the aperture is shown at W N ; the
distance from K to N is three feet
and half an inch; from K to W three
feet four inches. Miss Cook’s head
was less than two inches from the
inside of the cabinet at K, this
being all the slack the length of the
lock of hair would allow. The
cabinet was then closed, which
jammed the hair very tightly; hair
and bodkin were plainly to be seen
by all during the whole of this
second part of the sitting. Miss
Cook’s arm was measured, and
found to be two feet three inches
from the top of her shoulder to the
extreme end of her jingers; but it
should be remembered that her
shoulder must have been some
inches below the hair, so that sup¬
posing both hands to be free,-, in¬
stead of being together, she could
Fig. 2.. not possibly have reached within
several inches of the bottom of the aperture, but her hands
being tied closely together, I feel sure that neither could get
within twelve or more inches of the aperture. While Miss
Cook whs so secured, faces and hands as usual showed them¬
selves, and three or four of the circle were called up to the
aperture, myself among the number. I placed my fingers just
inside the aperture, and keeping them parallel to the floor of
the cabinet, they were shaken, pressed, and patted sufficiently
to allow of every one in the room hearing the sound ; then
two rings were taken from my little finger ; one was replaced,
the other retained; and when Miss Cook came out of the
cabinet, my ring was hung on to her earring, which was not a
hook as they are now usually worn, but a ring closing with a
spring, and she was obliged to apply to a lady present to get it
off. I need scarcely add that the seal on the knot of the tape,
which secured the hands, was quite perfect. I, before the
bodkin was removed, carefully examined the lock of hair, and
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1873.
can positively declare that it was growing on Miss Cook’s
head. To satisfy me on this point, she kindly allowed me to
pass my fingers on to the skin of the head. Now, if any of
our sceptical friends, or others, want more convincing tests
than the above to prove Miss Cook’s honesty, and that it was
not either her hands or face that were shown, all I can say is,
that I am unable to suggest anything likely to convince them.
It is very easy to cry out, “ Imposture, humbug ! ” &c. ; but
my experience of the world teaches me that those who are the
most ready to suspect others are those who are not over
reliable themselves. I would also remind all who honour me
by reading this, that when Katie appeared in full length out-'
side the cabinet, her feet and legs were bare, whereas, of
course, Miss Cook had on boots and stockings. Again, that
Katie was clothed in a long and rather full white robe, such
as Miss Cook could not possibly have concealed about her
person, especially as her figure happens to be very small.
I carefully examined every portion of the cabinet, and
nothing of the sort was in it. I am fully aware that it may
with truth be said that the full length form did not appear
under test conditions, but I am permitted to say that all who
saw it were fully convinced that it could not possibly be Miss
Cook’s figure that appeared.
On Thursday, the 6th of March, I was again at Mr.
Cook’s. The cabinet was arranged as on the last occa¬
sion, and Katie fulfilled the promise written to me, and
named above, as to test conditions. When Miss Cook
first entered the cabinet, no tests were resorted to, but
very soon a voice came, requesting me to tie Miss Cook’s
hands ; this I did securely with tape, sealing the knots. Both
hands were tied together, and as closely as could be arranged,
so as to use sealing-wax. The gas was low. One hand was
at once shown through the aperture, and on my saying I could
not see it distinctly, we were permitted to have more light, so
that the hand was visible to all. Gas was again low¬
ered, and in a short time the full length figure, with hands,
and feet naked as before, pulled back the rug in front
and appeared as on Monday; both hands were free, and at
my request the arms were extended at full length, so as, with
the body, to form a cross, I should before have stated that
after the first appearance this evening we had more light than
on Monday. It usually follows that as these manifestations
progress more light can be permitted. I will not go into fur¬
ther detail, as my letter is already of what I fear you will
consider an inconvenient length ; I must, however, beg you to
recollect that all this time Miss Cook’s hands were tied
together, and knots sealed, whereas the hands of the full
length figure were quite free, the arms being peculiarly long.
On opening the cabinet we found Miss Cook entranced, with
the tape and seals confining her hands quite secure. A break
in the seance then took place. On returning to the seance
room Miss Cook’s hands were tied and sealed as before. Mr.
Blackburn’s hair test was then resorted to under the same con¬
ditions as on Monday, but to render this test more easily un¬
derstood by those who were not present, I must refer them to
Fig. 2, representing the front of the cabinet. A is the aperture
through which the faces are shown ; K the spot'through which
the hair and bodkin were passed, so as to be seen by all the
circle, and to prevent the possibility of their being slipped
higher up, a small wedge was placed jd’st above, so that had
this been attempted, the wedge must have been displaced the
distance, as I have before stated. From K to N was three
feet and half an inch ; from K to W three feet four inches ;
and I again remind you, Miss Cook’s shoulder must have been
lower. The door of the cabinet had scarcely closed before
hands were exhibited at the aperture, and in a short time two
or three different faces; one with very black eyes and a thick
black beard. I and others were called up to the cabinet. I
placed my hand between W and N (Fig. 2) ; at first only my
fingers inside ; they were taken firm hold of, my whole hand
pulled in, squeezed, and scratched, so as to be slightly pain¬
ful. This was done at my request, becausd I know Miss
Cook’s nails to be peculiarly short. Others stated that they
were treated much in the same way. I think that as Miss
Cook’s hands were tied together, and the distance from W
and N and K remembered, I may venture to say that it was a
physical impossibility that Miss Cook’s hands could have
taken hold of mine, or that her face could have come to the
aperture. I would further ask those who are willing to impute
dishonesty to any one but themselves, how, when the full
length figure was seen, Miss Cook could possibly (were she
disposed to do so) get the white robe on when her hands were
securely tied together. I am almost ashamed to occupy your
space with absurd questions; the fault is not mine, but
belongs to those who resort to such grumbling. I have of
late seen much of Miss Cook and her family, with whom she
resides, and aftei^very close observation, I affirm that I have
as much confidence in the integrity of the whole party as in
my own, or that of any other friend with whom I am ac¬
quainted. J. C. LlTXMOORE.
16, Gloster-square, Hyde Park.
Mr. B. W, Pycock, of 33, Surrey-street, Strand,.has
sent us the following description of the seance of
March 3rd :—
The privilege of being allowed to be present at the great
test sitting that took place at Mr. Cook’s last evening has
been a pleasure and satisfaction to me I find it difficult to
express. My calling there was as unexpected to the family
as it was to myself at midday ; however, to this wonderful
test. Having taken our places in the seance-room, the
circle was formed' by Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Corner,
Mr. Harrison, myself, Mrs. Cook, Mary, and three children.
Our amiable medium, Miss Cook, entered the cabinet,
which was dressed as described by Mr. Tapp in your last
issue of the Spiritualist. Katie soon told us of her presence,
and said she intended to show us her form ; in five or six
minutes she began peeping through the folds of the curtain,
and in a quarter of an hour diffidently stepped out from be¬
hind in a robe of spotless and perfect white, of ancient, grace¬
ful form ; gaining strength, she came out fully before us, took
up paper, wrote messages to two of our party, keeping up a
pleasant and instructive, but whispering, conversation. On
my remarking about the purity of her robe, she put a sheet
of paper beside it, which became dark by comparison. We
asked if she objected to the test proposed by Mr. Blackburn,
that her medium should be secured through the side of the
cabinet by her hair. She said ‘ ‘ No,” and seemed pleased,
then left us for the test sitting.
Miss Cook readily conceded to our proposition of securing
her head to the door by a lock of her hair, passed through the
crevice formed by the hinges of the door. It fell to my lot to
secure her, and suggest the means. I asked for and obtained
a large bodkin, threaded it with her lock of hair, and then
tied the ends (after passing through the eye of the bodkin)
back on the main lock of hair. Miss Cook seated herself on
the low chair inside the cabinet; I passed the bodkin through
the crevice of the door; the hair and bodkin never once
moved during the long seance : and I must not omit to say
that the lock was only sufficiently long to allow the head to
move one inch inside the cabinet, without a very painful
strain, Miss Cook’s head being then three feet one inch from
the centre of the bottom of the opening in the cabinet from
which the faces appear. Miss Cook’s hands were tied toge¬
ther, and the final knot sealed. Not five minutes elapsed
before a face appeared at the opening ; it was pale, cold, and
death-like, without the slightest resemblance to the medium.
The next was a face with bright, glassy eyes, and very
marked features; the next was a stout man’s face, with abun¬
dant black whiskers, but expressionless ; the fourth was the
face of a very aged woman, much wrinkled, with sharp, high
cheek-bones ; then the whiskered man returned ; Katie keep-
ing up a very humorous conversation, and, declining to show
her face, bade us good night.
In the whole of my long and varied experiences at seances,
both in this country and America, I have never witnessed
anything as a test so thoroughly beyond dispute.
B. W. Pycock.
In a subsequent letter Mr. Pycock says :—
I have neglected to say to you that I think an equal, if not
a stronger, test than the one on Monday, the 3rd inst., was
that on Thursday evening, March 6th. After securing Miss
Cook by the hair and hands, as described in my account of the
previous seance, with a rather greater distance between her
head and the opening over the cabinet doors, you will remember
the spirit hands soundly and loudly slapped the back of my
hands, which I had rested by accident in the opening, while
securing the cabinet doors. I am quite sure one minute had
not elapsed from my hands leaving her hair secured in the
door to the hand appearing and touching mine outside ; the
test both surprising and pleading. B. W. Pycock.
Ju all the lock of hair experiments described in the
above letters Miss Cook’s hands were firmly tied to¬
gether with tape, and the final knot sealed with wax
and Mr. Luxmoore’s signet-ring.
March' 15, 1873.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
135
Last Monday evening, March 10th, at a seance at
Mr. Cook’s, a lock of Miss Cook’s hair was tied to a
bodkin and fixed . outside the door as usual, by an
engineer, a gentleman who frequently aids Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., in his researches, by executing delicate
experiments for him. Hands and faces appeared at the
aperture, although the hands of the medium were tied
together with tape and sealed. Dr. John Pardon, Mrs.
Corner, and Mr. J. C. Luxmoore were present at this
seance.
Last Wednesday evening there was another seance, at
the close of which the following statement was drawn
up and signed :—
This evening, March 12th, 1873, we, the undersigned, were
present at a seance at Mr. Cook’s. In the first part of the
sitting, the full form calling herself Katie came out of the
cabinet, draped in white, while Miss Cook’s hands were
securely bound together with tape and sealed. Both the hands
of Katie were free. At the second part of the seance, Miss
Cook was secured by her hair as at previous sittings, the lock
of hair being brought out at a spot 2 feet 10 inches from the
nearest bottom corner of the aperture. Miss Cook’s hands
were most securely bound together with tape, which was
sealed close up to the skin. Hands came out of the aperture,
and every visitor present felt these hands to be sure that they
were living and not mechanical.
At the close of each sitting the tapes and seals on Miss
Cook’s hands were intact, and were then cut off and taken
away by two of the visitors, Dr. Purdon and Mr. Mankiewicz.
Dr. Purdon drew the lock of hair through the door, and,
with other visitors, satisfied himself that it was growing on
Miss Cook’s head. By measurement, her head was pulled
close up to the door inside the cabinet, so that she had not
power to move it more than an inch.
J. E. Purdon, M.B., Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Henry M. Dunphy, 3, Essex-court, Temple, E.C.
John Jones, Bala, North Wales.
Jas. Mankiewicz, 37, Upper Bedford-place, Bussell-square.
A. Mankiewicz, 37, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square.
J. C. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W.
William H. Harrison, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill.
At the close of all the foregoing seances the tapes
and seals used were cut off, and taken homo by one or
other of the visitors, in accordance with the regular
custom for the past nine months. Three sides of the
cabinet are formed by the solid walls of the house;
there is no other entrance to the cabinet than through
the front doors ; nothing inside the cabinet but a chair
and piece of carpet; and no mortal being in it while
the manifestations are going on but the medium, who
is dressed in black.
The Spiritual Magazine is the oldest and one of the
best papers connected with the movement, so it is to be
regretted that in the last number it throws some literary
mud. It publishes a statement on its cover that the
latest on (lit is that henceforth the title of the Sjri-
ritualist newspaper will be Miss Florence CooTc's Journal.
Whenever new manifestations of great public interest
begin to be developed, it is a scientific and public duty
to observe them rigidly, and to accurately note all the
facts; hence the large amount of time, expense, and
space devoted by us to the laborious work of observa¬
tion. This is why we once watched Messrs. Herne and
Williams’ manifestations -for many- months, and why,
when spirit faces began to appear in a strong light at
Mr. Cook’s, we, with his kind permission, observed the
development of the phenomena so closely. Mr. Cook
and family have nothing whatever to do with this
journal, and we have nothing whatever to do with the
spirit circle at Mr. Cook’s, except that he consults Mr.
Luxmoore and ourselves as to the admission of visitors.
It is a cheap and easy way of conducting a periodical to
have no reporter, and to publish only narratives casu¬
ally sent to the office by all kinds of reliable and unre¬
liable people. While it is not our business to find
fault with journals worked upon this idle system, the
Spiritual Magazine need not risk the loss of its cha¬
racter for respectability, by throwing mud at workers
who .are searching after truth at very considerable
sacrifices.
C'fliTeapontirnrr.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE PROTECTION OP MEDIA.
Sir,—I cannot refrain from expressing to you my strong
approval of the article in the last number of the Spiritualist,
headed “ The Protection of Media,” with the exception of one
sentence, which I shall notice presently. Such an article was
much wanted, and will, I think, do great good to the cause of
Spiritualism ; it will preserve non-professional mediums from
rudeness and insult, to which several of such have been sub¬
jected.
The sentence which I object to is towards the end. It com¬
mences—“ Professional mediums might save themselves, &c.
&c.,” and ends with the words—“ shall not have the right to
attend at pleasure.” My .opinion is that there ought to be
some seances open to the public, to which admission may be
had on payment of a small sum. How, otherwise, can those
who have no personal friends to introduce them, and who are
anxious to form an opinion founded on their conviction and
experience, have the opportunity of seeing and hearing for
themselves ?
I do not consider it sufficient to say, let persons form a
circle composed of the members of their own family, or house¬
hold, or friends. Many will net do that until they have had
some small measure of conviction, or, at all events, an im¬
pression that there is a reality in the professed manifesta¬
tions. I myself have been asked how are certain phenomena
to be witnessed ? My answer has been—“ There are several
avowed mediums ; you should go to some of them.”
I certainly should not subject any non-professional medium,
who might be a personal friend of myself, to be regarded as
capable of trickery or imposture ; but if professional mediums
advertise, they may reasonably enough be examined, questioned,
watched, and scrutinised; nor will they, if honest and truth¬
ful, object to this. I need not enlarge. I have said enough in
support of my opinion. A. A. A.
March 11th, 1873.
SHAM MANIFESTATIONS AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.
To the Editor of the li Norwood News.”
Sir.—In reply to the questions oral and written put to me
by many of your readers, I desire to state that last Tuesday
the exhibition of so-called spirit manifestations a la Home,
disappointed me. They were not equal to the ordinary
Christmas pantomine transformation scenes.
There was no stranger on the stage to observe and report to
the audience as to the usual side-scene appliances to produce
effects, so the audience have to allow distance to lend en¬
chantment to the view.
In common with those of your readers accustomed to the
mannerism of spirit power manifestations in our own houses,
I can only say, that if the paste diamond exhibition produced,
confirmed the opinions of some of the audience that real
diamonds do not exist, their ignorance leaves the diamond
still the unmatched gem.
The watch-box exhibition that followed, during which I
was allowed to be on the stage, was very clever. I found out
how a part could be effected, the other part I could not, but
I thiak that if I could steadily attend a few times I could find
out all.
In the face of the thousands of persons in all classes, from
prince to peasant, who have in their own families, at their
own houses, enjoyed the marvellous evidences of ghost life and
power of the character vouched for by The Times, the tricks
of theatre managers, can only satisfy those who would rather
pay half-a-crown to see a sham to confirm their ignorance than
pay the same sum to obtain proof that man has an immediate
intelligent future, at and after the moment called death.
5th March, 1873. J. Enmore Jones.
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Makch 15, 1873.
STAGE IMITATIONS OE SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
MESSES. MASKELYNE AND COOKE’S PEEEOEMANCES.
The Standard newspaper of March 4th contained the
following advertisement:—
Crystal Palace.—Exposition of Spiritualists’ Manifes-
tations.^This day, in the New Opera Theatre, at 2.30,
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke will give an original seance,
calculated to be explanatory of the manifestations of so-called
“ Spiritism ” and other illusions. Reserved seats, Half-a-
Crown and One Shilling. Admission to the Palace, One Shil¬
ling, or by Guinea Season Ticket.
The same newspaper also published the following
description of the performance at the Crystal Palace:—
Yesterday afternoon an exhibition was announced of an
exposition of spiritual manifestations by Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke at the Crystal Palace. It was announced as “an
entertainment a la Home,” and was supposed to be an expo¬
sure of the tricks of the Davenport Brothers, and the illusions
practised on the Spiritualists generally. In a short address
before the curtain rose, however, Mr. Maskelyne came forward
and said that though he believed he should be able to show
the tricks and deceptions of spirit-rapping, &c., he was not
then prepared with all the apparatus for its explanation,
though he would be next week; but in the meantime he with
his colleagues could show their audience (which was a very
large one) sufficient to amuse and interest them. The enter¬
tainment, or rather series of entertainments, which then com¬
menced amply justified this modest preface—indeed, of its
kind, the Crystal Palace has never brought forth anything so
good. They consist of a sketch, extravaganza, and a burlesque,
and we can only regret that the great pressure on our space
caused by the debates in Parliament prevents our doing jus¬
tice to them more at length. While it is clearly explained
that all that is done are tricks, they become more incompre¬
hensible than ever, from the utter absence of being able to
comprehend how such tricks can be done on an open stage,
and under the full glare of gas. Table-turning, spirit-rap¬
ping, voices, raising people from the ground in mid-air, are
all done in the first sketch. But passing over the amusing
extravaganza of Bodkin, the great piece of the entertainment
is the The Will and the Watch. We cannot attempt in this
short space to give even an outline of the extraordinary de¬
ceptions and illusions which were practised in this amusing
burlesque. It is enough to say that gentlemen from the
audience were invited to come on the stage, and given every
facility to try and discover how the tricks were practised, and
many availed themselves of this permission, and were most
keen in their surveillance, but all efforts at detection failed.
To give as instance, a watch-box is on the centre of the
stage, full in view, •with nothing near it, standing on four legs,
about the height of an umbrella, and not much thicker. The
gentlemen from the audience are invited to examine, sound,
and measure it, which being most carefully done inside dnd
out, showed it to be only a stout watch-box, about two inches
thick. In the course of the burlesque two of the actors, Mr.
Maskelyne and Mr. Hasarde, were crammed into this, yet, when
it was opened, they were gone, only to reappear among the
back seats of the auditory. The burlesque necessitated this
trick being done two or three times, and gentlemen came on
the stage to watch the box from behind, and below, and above;
but the most careful watching, though within a yard of the box,
failed to even excite suspicion as tohowitwasdone.* It is difficult
to conceive how, in any manner, two big men could have been
concealed in a watch-box, which was thrown open and visitors
irrvited to examine, but it is quite impossible to conceive how
they could have got away out of it, with every one on the
qui vine around them, and with no chance of communication
between floor or ceiling. Yet get out they did, as was
evidenced by their walking back on to the stage. Again,
visitors were invited to inspect a stout mahogany trunk, per¬
forated in the lid with air-holes. Into this, fastened in a
straight waistcoat which confined the whole body, head,
hands, and feet, Mr. Maskelyne was crammed. We say
crammed, because it required a push to shut the lid, which
was locked, and the key given to a gentleman. The trunk
was then firmly bound with ropes, and the junctions of the
ropes and their fastenings sealed. Yet in a few minutes after
the burlesque had gone on, the box was examined—the seals
found all unbroken, the lock untouched, and only the straight
waistcoat and its fastenings in the box. These are only some
of the tricks. We have not space to mention more, though
others are equally worthy of note. The acting is very good,
and as one man in his turn has to play many parts, the
changes of dresses and characters have to be instantaneous.
The Daily Telegraph of March 5th, published the
following short article:—
Conjuring tricks, intended to expose Spiritualism, are not
new, and the present performance at the Crystal Palace is
only a clever repetition of former attempts. Of course such
feats do not solve the riddle completely, but they are useful
as proving that the unexplained is not always the unexplain¬
able, and that there is hardly any limit to the extent of
mechanical and sleight-of-hand deception in the presence of
the most watchful spectators. The inference is obvious :
if cool witnesses, entirely unawed, are thus deceived, when
they are on the alert to detect the modus operandi, how much
more easily may emotional and excited spectators be bewil¬
dered when they do not suspect tripkery, and are, on the
whole, anxious to believe 1 This cuts the ground from under
all stories of wondrous movements of tables and chairs, yet it
still leaves unsolved two permanent puzzles for all who have
honestly looked into the question. How is it that a certain
number—not many—of intelligent, honest, and disinterested
observers have believed, and do believe, that Spiritualism is
partially true? For instance, a man like the late Robert
Chambers understood thoroughly the powers of professional
wizards and sleight-of-hand men. Why did he treat table-
rapping with respect ? Next, the exposure at the Crystal
Palace may teach us to regard with distrust all seances where
professional mediums are employed. But what is the secret
of the raps, or tiltings, or messages that come at sittings
where all are of the same family or circle, and all are morally
convinced that none of the group is base or silly enough to
play tricks night after night ? To be sure, messages in such
cases are invariably trivial, and never soar beyond the know¬
ledge possessed by at least one of the party ; but, granting
the good faith of those present, how are the effects produced ?
Dr. W. B. Carpenter suggests that it is by “ unconscious cere¬
bration ”—movements of the mind producing physical sounds,
and yet with the initial exertion of the intellect as unknown
to the after-perception as the words or acts of a somnambulist
are to the same person awake. That is a guess at the truth,
but as yet it is not clearly established. Meanwhile, the
amusing Crystal Palace tricks do good, as showing what may
be done by avowed—and therefore by unavowed—impostors.
The last remark of the editor of the Telegraph is
rather a hard one, since Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke are
not impostors, but are what they profess to be—con¬
jurors.
a theatrical seance.
On Friday, March 7th, we went for the first time to
see Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s performance. The
curtain rises; an old gentleman appears upon the stage,
and narrates to a friend that he has been to see the
celebrated medium Mrs. Bokanque, whose tables jumped
about, rose in the air, and emitted rapping noises; his
own walking stick which he had left leaning against
the wall, walked across the room to him, and he lefc the
house a confirmed believer in Spiritualism. His friend
undertakes to show him all this and more. A lady
enters, the two put their hands on the top of a light
table on the stage, at a distance from the observers;
they lift it up, jump it about, and mechanical knocks
come from its inside. The old gentleman who is look¬
ing on is duly terrified by the performance, and em¬
phasis is given to his exclamations of astonishment by
the rising and falling of the hair of his head, or rather
—of his wig. Then his walking-stick, suspended by a
wire or thread, is made to dance about the stage, at the
will of the unseen performer up above, holding the
otlmr end of the string. A nosegay travels through the
air on a wire or thread, and the actress trying toimitate
a medium goes into a sham trance. Shortly afterwards
she is raised in the air, near the back of the stage.
March 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
FLOATING IN THE AIR BY MACHINERY.
There are at least two ways of raising a person in the
air on a stage, at a distance from the observers, the best
being the one employed by Professor Pepper at the
Polytechnic Institution, the principle of which may be.
explained by the aid of Fig.
1. In this cut A B is the
floor, and E B the back of the
stage ; W N is a long sheet
of good thick plate glass about
18 in. wide, raised or drawn
down by machinery under the
stage. The feet of the actress
are concealed by her dress, and
they stand upon a ledge fixed
to the top of the sheet of glass,
which ledge is denoted by the
dotted line N. The reason
the observers at a distance in
front cannot see the plate of
glass, is that there are no
lights in the theatre in front
of H, throwing rays upon the
glass in the direction 'R K ;
if lights were so placed, the
rays would be reflected to the
eyes of the observers, and they would then see the glass.
In practice, most of the light or lights are above the
head of the actress, so that the background E B is well
illuminated, and can be clearly seen through the glass.
The manager usually walks round and round the rising
“ angel,” holding a lighted candle over her head, and
remai’king,—“ You see, ladies and gentlemen, that she
is not suspended by wires or raised by levers from
behind.” He would strongly object if asked to place
the lighted candle at H, or to swing a walking-stick
under her feet.
Fig. l.
A. N B
Fig. 2.
Another, and a clumsier plan, is to let the edges of
two curtains meet at the centre of the back of the stage,
and to lift up the actress by means of a lever, protrud¬
ing between the curtains and hidden from observers a
long way off in front, by the breadth of the lower part
of her dress. Let A, Fig. 2, be the front of the stage,
A B the floor, and K N the back of the stage formed by
curtains. After the actress takes her stand at E, the
end of the iron lever is pushed through the curtains ; she
stands upon it; then one or two men pressing at F
elevate the end E, and the actress also, the fulcrum
being at H. This is how the actress appeared to be
lifted at the performance at the Crystal Palace.
The body of Mr. Home has often been floated in the
air in private rooms, in private houses never entered
by him before, and in the midst of responsible witnesses,
such as Lord Lindsay and Mr. S. C. Hall.
CABINET TRICES AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.
The crowning portion of Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke’s performances last Friday week was entitled The
Will and the Watch. A very large cabinet occupied
the centre of the stage; it stood upon four high legs,
and when the doors in front were thrown open, the
whole of the inside could be seen by the auditory.
Anybody who pleased went on the platform to examine
it; about a dozen went on to the stage for the purpose
on the occasion now under notice. They measured it
inside and out, and proved that there was no concealed
space which could enclose anything bulky, and the
proprietor beat the bottom and sides of the cabinet
very vigorously with a pole. When everybody was
satisfied, or rather when the spectators who * came to be
amused began to get noisy and demand the performance
to begin, the searchers left the stage, with the exception
of two, who were permitted to remain near the side-
scenes, to make quite sure that nobody got out behind
or beneath the cabinet. One of these scrutineers was
Mr. J. Enmore Jones, of Enmore Park, South Norwood,
and the other was an energetic member of the Dialec¬
tical Society. The spectators sang out “ Confederates!”
and demanded that Mr. Jones should come-off the plat¬
form. Mr. Jones stated that he was a Spiritualist well
known in the neighbourhood, and, wished to watch the
performers narrowly. Something in Mr. Jones’s manner
seemed to convince all the observers, and no further
objections were made to his remaining.
An amorous watchman^pf the olden time then began
to make love to the belle of the village ; and while
attempting to take undue liberties, he is detected by
“ her own true love,” a sailor, who returns unexpect¬
edly from ayont the seas, just in time to thrash the
preserver of Her Majesty’s peace. A nondescript elderly
personage with a pigtail, who may be a justice of the
peace, a superintendent of police, or “ the father of the
village,” but who, at all events, has absolute authority,
appears upon the scene, and the sailor is put in stocks
inside the cabinet, or “ lock-up,” and the doors are
closed. An old witch then appears, resembling the one
described by Ingoldsby :—
There’s an old woman dwells upon Tappington Moor,
She hath years on her back at the least fourscore,
And some people fancy a great many more;
Her nose it is hook’d,
Her back it is crook’d,
Her eyes blear and red:
On the top of her head
Is a mutch, and on that
A shocking bad hat,_
Extinguisher-shaped, the brim narrow and flat!
Then—my gracious!—her beard!—it would sadly perplex
A spectator at first to distinguish her sex;
Nor, I’ll venture to say, without scrutiny could he]
Pronounce her, off-handed, a Punch or a Judy.
Did you see her, in short, that mud-hovel within,
With her knees to her nose, and her nose to her chin,
Leering up with that queer, indescribable grin,
You’d lift up your hands in amazement and cry,
“ —Well!—I never did see such a regular Guy! ”
Neitber tbe watchman nor the damsel are pleased
with the appearance of the old crone, who flings
coloured flames about with her hands, and behaves
peculiarly, but undertakes to deliver the sailor from
bondage. The doors of the cabinet are then opened;
it is empty; the sailor has disappeared. The inside of
the cabinet is well lighted by means of two lamps fixed
to the sides. The doors are again closed. When they
are opened once more, a gorilla is found inside, who
jumps out, and runs about the stage, but is locked up
in the cabinet, to vanish once more. Throughout the
piece, a butcher, a gorilla, and a sailor, appear, and are
lost again inside the cabinet; and once, after the
butcher has been locked up therein, he reappears at
the back of the theatre, among the auditory. The
watchman, and his superior, and the damsel, get more
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1873.
A
H
w
IN B
D
■K
F
Fia.
and more unnerved by this cliabelerie. The watchman,
while trembling all over, advises the damsel to run
away lest she should get frightened, probably that he
may adopt the same course afterwards with less loss of
dignity, but as she stands her ground, he explains the
facts to her scientifically, beginning by telling how the
atmosphere is composed of hydro-gin, nitro-gin, and
London-gin. His explanation, which is just as reliable
and scientific, as Dr. Carpenter’s explanation of spi¬
ritual phenomena in the Quarterly Review, succeeds in
bewildering both himself and the listener, and, soon
afterwards, the piece closes.
The inside of the cabinet is of the form described in
Pig. 3. In this cut, A E is the back of the cabinet,
A B the top, and E E the
bottom. A strong broad
shelf, H K, projects from
the back of the cabinet, ex¬
tends from side to side, but
does not extend from K, to
the front doors between B
and E. Two lamps, D, are
fixed, one at each side of
the cabinet, inside, and
illuminate the back of the
cabinet, A H, as well as
the top, A W.
All the tricks in this part
of the performance, probably
depend upon two things,—a
sheet of looking-glass, and the dresses of the gorilla,—
which may be assumed to be used in the following
manner:—The sheet of looking-glass is backed with
wood or iron, papered or painted to resemble one of the
panels of the inside of the cabinet. The most con¬
venient position for its concealment is against the roof
inside the cabinet, between A and N. "When, after the
search, the proprietor beats the inside of the cabinet
with a pole, the scrutineers should publicly ask for the
weapon, also for permission to beat the cabinet any¬
where, and then they should propose to hammer at W,
to the intense delight of the proprietor. This looking-
glass may conveniently have, a hinge at A. When the
sailor is shut in, he first frees himself from the stocks,
then lies at full length, upon the shelf H Iv, after
which he releases the mirror at N, and lets it fail into
the position denoted by the dotted line A K.
When the front doors are opened the cabinet appears
to be empty. The spectators ihinlc they see the back of
the cabinet A H, but what they really see is the pat¬
tern of the illuminated roof A N, reflected by the
mirror A K, so as to appear* to be at A H, in obedience
to the optical law that a point reflected by a plane
mirror appears to be exactly as far behind the mirror as it
is in front of it in reality. At this time the scrutineers
on the stage are at one side of the cabinet, instead of
looking into it, so are in the position where they can
see nothing, and are hopelessly harmless.
The doors of the apparently empty cabinet are again
closed. The sailor fixes the mirror again at A N,
dresses himself in other vestments and a mask, so that
when the doors are opened once more, out runs a gorilla.
The butcher enters; the doors are closed, reopened,
and he has disappeared, the mirror being down. The
doors are closed, he slips into the loose gorilla dress,
and puts on the mask; when the doors are opened he
runs out, and for an instant is lost to' view at the side
scenes. Another gorilla, apparently the same, all
identity being destroyed by the dress and maslc, enters
the cabinet, whilst the original butcher, being now out
of the eabinet, walks into the body of the theatre
among the auditory, and the second gorilla in the
cabinet reappeafs there as a sailor or somebody else, till
the spectators are fairly bewildered.
The mirror may possibly not be concealed at A N,
though that is the most convenient place to hide it.If
the scrutineers search there, they may find that what is
apparently the roof is not nailed to the sides of the
cabinet, but probably the mirror is so fastened that
they cannot pull it down. It may be that detents
holding it do not release it till the front doors of the
cabinet are closed, but then release the mirror auto¬
matically. It may be that pressure upon a button or
two, hidden under thin veneering or paper outside the
cabinet, is necessary to release the mirror, so that it
can afterwards be moved by hand by the person inside-
the cabinet. The disconsolate young lady and the
watchman were constantly moving round the cabinet
and leaning against its sides during the performance.
The scrutineers should ask to sit two yards in front
of the cabinet all through the performance. The Daven¬
port Brothers permit this, and last Eriday week the
manager asserted that he could do all the “ tricks” of
the Davenports. The cabinet of the Davenport Bro¬
thers consists of a few thin boards, which the investi¬
gators often fasten together themselves.
TUB box thick. .
In the course of the performance an uncanny gorilla
gives the watchman much trouble. In fact, when the
butcher succeeds in chopping off the tail of the animal,
the tail leaps about the stage, to the terror of the two
men, and the more vigorously they attempt to seize it,
the more vigorously does the tail jump, in obedience to
the unseen performer above, who is jerking it up and
down with a thread or wire.
Considering the trouble in securing the tail, it is no
wonder that when they seized the gorilla himself, they
resolved to make sure of him, so they packed him in a
very small mahogany box, made the lid close by sitting
upon it, and, locking it, then proceeded to bind the box
with a rope, which they knotted where they pleased.
The two scrutineers assisted in the tying, their black
dresses contrasting incongruously with the dresses of
the past generation worn by the actors, just as the tails
of the monkeys which sometimes accompany street
organs, do not harmonise with the tails of the red
dresses which often adorn the said monkeys. After the
box was corded it was put end uppermost in the empty
j cabinet. When the doors were
D closed the gorilla escaped, and the
box was found corded as it had
been left, but with no gorilla in¬
side, nor apparently in the cabinet,
N he being then behind the mirror.
The hinges of this box are at
A B (Eig. 4), and the lock at P.
If we remember rightly, the watch-
r man kindly put the rope round the
box in the direction E H, but Mr.
Jones and the other gentleman
promptly put the rest of the rope
E round the box in the directions
FlG- 4 h N N and It It, to keep the princi¬
pal lid from opening. We have never handled the box,
which is heavily made of thick mahogafay, bound with
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1873.
139
brass, but in all probability the end A D (which is
placed uppermost in the cabinet) swings open on an
axis F, in the direction denoted by the line W. W.
Whatever fastenings in the wood may hold the lid
(A D) tight, probably the act of shutting down the lid,
or of locking the box, may release the detent, so
that A D can afterwards be opened from the inside by
pressure or otherwise. In future, scrutineers should tie
the ends A D and B E in all directions, and not trouble
much about the rest of the box. They should provide
themselves with a long piece of rope, in case the piece
given them should be too short to do much binding
longitudinally.
Supposing the'box to be efficiently corded, it might be
necessary that a gorilla, or sailor, should enter the
cabinet and disappear under the mirror. Then, when
the box was put in, a confederate inside the cabinet
could untie the box from the outside, and release his
imprisoned brother, who, in consequence of being incar¬
cerated longer than usual, would be nearly stifled.
We have never been inside Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke’s cabinet, and have never handled their mahogany
box, so the statements in this article should be con¬
sidered merely as theories, which at the time explained
satisfactorily everything we witnessed during their per¬
formances last Friday week.
The fire the old witch threw about consisted appa¬
rently of ignited pieces of pyroxyline paper, which had
been soaked in nitrate of strontium, and dried.
SURVIVAL OP DECAriTATIOJSr.
In one portion of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s
entertainment at the Crystal Palace, a quack doctor
bemoans the hard times upon which the members of
his craft have fallen, but revives when a patient, in
the shape of a burly farmer, is announced. The farmer
is afflicted “ wi’ a buzzin’ in his ears,” which the doctor
undertakes to cure by the common operation of cutting
off his head, cleaning and repairing the inside, and
fixing the head on again. The former is rather startled
at the proposed operation, but, remembering the mira¬
culous cures of his leech, as narrated in the newspaper
advertisement, which reached his rural homestead in
company with a bar of soap, he finally yields, but
cautions the operator not to fix his head on again with
the face behind. The afflicted one is then seated on a
chair with a cloth back. An “ extinguisher” is placed
over his head, and rests upon his shoulders. Through
an opening in the front of this extinguisher, his face
can be seen. After sundry pantomimic performances
on the part of the doctor and patient, in consequence of
the manifest dislike of the latter to the approach of the
gleaming knife, the head of the farmer is cut off under
the bell. The livid and motionless face, staring out of
the opening in the extinguisher, is then carried away,
and placed on a table some yards off, where it begins to
talk, while the body in the chair indulges in ghastly
antics, in which the boots and gaiters of the farmer are
prominently displayed.
This is not an optical trick, and how the rose is
severed from its parent stem any observer of moderate
ability can discover. There is no desire on our part to
expose more of the performances than those which
attack Spiritualism, and are placarded all over London
as “expositions” of Spiritual phenomena. What the
Davenport manifestations really were will be found de¬
scribed in another column, in an article extracted from
The British Journal of Photography) and written by its
elitor, Mr. John Traill Taylor, a gentleman who is one
of the best authorities in London on the subject of any
juggler’s illusions connected with optical science. Con¬
sidered merely as conjuring, the Crystal Palace enter¬
tainment no more deserves comparison with the Daven¬
ports’ exhibition than does a'farthing rushlight with
the noonday sun. Spiritualism has outgrown the im¬
posture theory so far as London is concerned, whatever
may be the case in some few provincial towns behind
the age; the feeble applause which followed the re¬
marks against Spiritualism made at the Crystal Palace
proved how little the majority of the listeners believed
the statements. In truth, very many Spiritualists live
in the neighbourhood around the Crystal Palace, and
not a few of them are season ticketholders. In giving
the entertainment there is no reason why the managers
should throw mud at absent people; but for this
erroneous step on their part, no doubt Spiritualists, as
well as the general public, would find no fault with
their jugglery, and would award them all the credit
their cleverness deserves.
There were some skilful imitations of Chinese plate
and dish dancing.
THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS.
Some conjurors at the Crystal Palace are now professing to
expose the Davenport Brothers. The following narrative,
from an editorial article in the British Journal of Photography
of August 14th, 1868, shows what the Davenport manifesta¬
tions actually were :—
Paying our entrance fee of one shilling, we find the place,
St. George's Hall, tolerably well filled, and lighted up by
sunlights as aggregated groups of gas burners placed near the
ceiling of a building are now designated.
Placed in the centre of a large platform, and supported on
a couple of trestles, was a cabinet of a size sufficient to accom¬
modate three or four persons. The simplicity of the whole
arrangement formed a striking contrast to that of the Poly¬
technic. The lecturer, Mr. Cooper, after some introductory
remarks, stated that it was desirable that those present should
have a guarantee that there was no concealed apparatus about
the cabinet, it would be desirable to appoint a committee,
chosen by ballot from the audience, not only to examine the
cabinet and platfofm previous to the commencement of the
entertainment, but to remain on the platform during the
whole proceedings. A committee was accordingly chosen by
the audience, and, by request publicly made by a gentleman
present, we had the privilege of accompanying the committee.
Entering the cabinet, which was more than six feet in
height, having in front large folding doors permitting the
interior to be plainly visible to every person in the hall, we
saw at a glance that, from the total absence of anything con¬
nected with optical science, we should have to look in some
other direction for the solution of that which might at first
sight prove inexplicable. We raised the cabinet from off the
trestles, and found that there was no electrical connection
between it and the floor. It was evidently a plain cabinet,
which we could see under, walk round, or get on the top of.
The Davenports were then sequrely tied by the committee,
the hands being fastened behind their backs. They were then
seated, one at each end of the cabinet, and the cords by
which they were bound were pulled down through holes in
the seat, and then employed to fasten their feet, which was
most effectually accomplished. Placed in the centre of the
cabinet were some musical instruments, but quite out of the
reach of either of the brothers ; and when the audience had
by their applause testified their satisfaction at the manner in
which the pinioning had been performed, the doors of the
cabinet were closed. Simultaneous with the closing of the
doors, if not even sooner, one of the instruments, a horn, was
ejected from the cabinet through a square aperture in the
door, above six feet from the floor. The sudden opening of
the door revealed the occupants of the cabinet sitting bound,
as they had been left a few seconds previously. This was
repeated with several variations, the horn being placed under
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the seat, and even across the back of the neck of one of the
brothers. As a crucial test, we unbuttoned his vest, inserted
the horn, and buttoned both vest and coat so closely that the
horn could not be seen. In less than one second after the
door had been closed the horn was ejected as before, although
on the most rapid opening of the door the brothers were Seen
sitting bound.
Subsequently the hands of these gentlemen were filled with
flour, and not only so, but one of the committee was allowed
to enter the cabinet and sit between them with a hand on
each. On this occasion the manifestations were, if possible,
of a more violent nature than before ; the instruments in the
cabinet were played upon, and hands and arms were protruded
through the aperture. All attempts to grasp these hands
proved futile. True, they could be both felt and grasped,
but, somehow or other, nothing remained in the hand. One
arm which was projected was without doubt that of a female
—fleshy, plump, and well formed. It was visible up to the
elbow, but all attempts to secure it were, as we have stated,
quite futile. When the doors of the cabinet were thrown
open the trio were discovered sitting as they had been left,
the member of committee (a medical practitioner residing at
the west end of London) averring that not only had the
Davenports not been the active agents in these displays, but
that neither he nor they had moved in the slightest degree.
The cabinet, he said, had been filled with beings of some sort
or other, and he had been very freely handled; but the brothers
had not moved in the slightest degree, as he had held them
firmly all the time.
At a subsequent period of the evening, when the cabinet
was placed on one side, Mr. Fay, who travels with the
brothers, and who is a “ medium ” like them, had his hands
firmly tied behind his back by the committee ; and while
seated in front of the platform and thus tied, the lights then
being put out, he had his coat taken off and thrown among
the audience. In from one to two seconds after the coat had
been seen flying from him to its resting-place, among the
audience, we were examining the knots by which his hands
were tied, and found them securely fastened as before. A
coat belonging to a stripling in the audience was in like
manner transferred to Mr. Fay’s back while his wrists were
tied. Much amusement was afforded by the fact that when
his hands had been untied it was found to be an exceedingly
difficult matter to get the coat removed; for Mr. Fay, be it
observed, is very far indeed from being attenuated in his
physical proportions.
A couple of guitars, which had been well rubbed over with
phosphorus, rose up from the table on which they were lying,
and flitted like bats through that end of the hall facing the
audience, and at an altitude varying apparently from six to
eighteen feet. Was this accomplished by any of those on the
platform? We reply to this by stating that each person be¬
longing to the party was grasped by two gentlemen from the
audience, and that we ourselves held firmly the arm of Mr.
Cooper, the principal person, or lecturer. The ordinary means
of detection, such as placing the feet on a sheet of clean
paper with a pencil mark round the sole, loading the upper
part of the foot with a pile of coins, &c., were not disre¬
garded. During the whole entertainment nothing whatever
was said as to a spiritual origin. It was rather something
like the following :—Here we present you with an enter¬
tainment of a marvellous kind ; it is for you to find out how
it is effected.
How, it may now be asked, are the Davenport manifesta-
tations performed ? If the clever successor of the famous
Robert Houdin, after due examination, was forced to pro¬
nounce the exhibition to be “ inexplicable,” we need not feel
abashed at confessing ourselves to be in the same predicament.
Every facility for detecting the origin, of the manifestations
was afforded, but without avail so far as we were concerned.
Of one thing, however, we were well assured : neither the
Davenports nor neither of their two associates who were on
the platform effected anything of what we had seen. Their
being tied during the whole time was security of a certain
kind ; but much better was the assurance afforded by their
being held by strangers, with whose names even they were
and are now unacquainted.
Our chemical readers know what is meant by catalysis, that
is, a body acting by means of its presence, such as the influence
exercised by peroxide of manganese when used with chlorate
of potash for producing oxygen. Analogous to this seemed to
be the agency of the Davenports in inducing phenomena which
appeared to us to be subject to no rules of physics with which
we are acquainted.
March 15, 1873.
A CASE OE OBSESSION.
The following exceptional case of the tormenting of
a medium by low class spirits was published in a recent
number of Human Nature :—
To ike Editor of “ Human Nature”
Sir,—Some time ago I sent you an account which you pub¬
lished in Human Nature respecting the extraordinary medium-
ship of the girl Sapia Padalino, of this city, on whom I built
the best hopes for developing a first-rate and very useful
medium. Most unfortunately, through one of those physical
or psychical disturbances, the causes of which are as yet hidden
to the investigators of Spiritualism, this poor girl, notwith¬
standing the greatest care and intelligence employed in guid¬
ing and developing her mediumship, finds herself now ob¬
sessed by a band of low spirits, who not only render any
further experiment with her unpleasant and unprofitable, but
seem determined also to torment and drive her to despair.
Let me give you a brief account of the facts the knowledge
of which may prove useful to Spiritualists, and with the fur¬
ther object of eliciting some advice from some of your cor¬
respondents who may have more experience in this line than
I possess, and thus perhaps enabling me, by a change of tactics,
to relieve that great but unfortunate medium from her present
distressing position.
The unpleasant phenomena began with a request from the
circle, that the spirits might bring in some material object
through closed doors and windows. The request was imme¬
diately complied with by our hearing an object fall on the
table. On striking a light we found a neatly made-up parcel,
and on carefully unfolding it we were much disgusted to find
it containing—a dead rat! I mildly remonstrated with the spirits
for the unpleasant joke, and told them to bring in future more
genial objects. They said they would, and at a subsequent sit¬
ting some tawdry brass-gilt trinkets were soon brought in
(always with closed doors) as a present to the medium. At
the next regular seance they said they would show their power
also bytakingthingsoutof the room, andsureenough, attheend
of the seance, a new mantle belonging to a lady present had been
abstracted, and has never been found since. The next day
poor Sapia brought a red mantle to the lady, asking if that
was the mantle lost, and saying she had found it spread on
her bed as she awoke that morning ; but it was a different
mantle which remains still in Sapia’s possession. At another
seance, a member of the society, Signor Lamarra, had his new
hat stolen by the spirits. He had to go home without his hat,
not, however, before searching minutely the whole house for
it; but it has never been recovered. The spirits next pilfered
a watch and chain belonging to an ardent Spiritualist, Signora
Commetti, who seemed distressed at the loss, as the watch and
chain had belonged to her departed husband. This time, in
a speech, which I made as impressive and instructive for them
as I could, I urged the spirits to return the property to the
lady, as their mission here was to convince the sceptics, and
not to distress the friends of the spirit-world. They promised
they would, but not then, and when the lady reached home,
she found the watch and chain lying on her bed. A few days
afterwards, however, both watch and chain were missed from
before her eyes, and have never been found to this hour.
At the next seanee I asked to speak to the spirits, and
Sapia said she saw them muster all round our circle in great
numbers. I again addressed them in a kind of sermon, ex¬
plaining to them the law of progression, and how wrong it
was thus to squander their time and ours, and give us such
serious annoyances by abstracting our property ; and that if
they wanted to advance in a better sphere and be happier,
they should be active in good works, and not distress their
fellow-beings ; they should repent their faults, and earnestly
pray the Almighty for their deliverance from their present
unhappy state. At the end of my speech Sapia informed us
that only one of the band seemed moved and shed tears,
whilst the others were dancing about and making horrib'e
faces at me.
One of the most remarkable phenomena occurring through
Sapia’s mediumship consists in noises, either as from the ex¬
plosion of firearms in the room, or as from a large hammer
striking the seanee table. One evening Signor Barone, an old
spiritualist-and medium, felt alarmed at the concussion on the
table so near his hands, and said aloud he had withdrawn them
from the table in fear. A spiritualist present observed, that
he had not the least apprehension of being hurt by the spirits;
but be had no sooner said the words than he was struck with
a very severe blow on his hand, the painful effects of which
March 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
he felt for nearly a week. Sapia said she saw the spirits strike
the table with an instrument like polished iron, in the shape
of a funnel or cone.
Their next trick, on another occasion, was to throw to the
ground from a table where they were standing five cages, con¬
taining my pet canaries, and they did so by drawing a table-
cover on which tney rested. On hearing the crash we struck a
light, and found the poor little things motionless, as if they
were dead. They recovered a few minutes afterwards, and I
cannot help thinking that they were mesmerised by the spirits,
who perhaps felt compunction to hurt the poor little things.
Again, a seance was held at the' house of another member
of the society. A pet cat seeing—or feeling, no doubt—the
presence of ungenial beings, began loudly to mew. The sit¬
ters expressed their .annoyance, and the spirits said they would
soon quiet the beast, and the poor thing was found dead the
next morning. At the same house the spirits broke a table
almost shapelessly, and a large expensive clock-shade. One
day, at the house of riignor Lamarra, whom I have already
named, some object was missed, and he jocularly said to a
friend, who lives with him : “Ha ! it must be Alessi” (the
chief of the band of low spirits, who torment Sapia, and who
in life had been a poisoning doctor) “ who has stolen it ! ’’
Sapia knew nothing of this circumstance, but that same
evening this spirit appeared to her whilst she was in bed, sur¬
rounded, as she says, with a sinister light, saying to her, “ Tell
those scurvy friends of yours, Lamarra and Co., that I am not
going to stand their insults, ascribing to me that which I have
not done. I have never been a thief, and if they say so again,
I will twist their necks, and yours too, if you do not speak
more respectfully of me !” Sapia says that as the spirit
stamped the ground with his foot, the whole room trembled,
and all the objects standing on the chest of drawers against
which the spirit leaned, moved and jingled most violently.
She was indeed so frightened that she called the landlady
where she lodged to her succour, and begged not to be left
alone that night.
One evening, Signor Lamarra, on entering his club, was set
upon by two young lawyers of the Positivist school, who pub¬
licly ridiculed him for believing in spirits. He asked them if
they had investigated Spiritualism ? They said “ No ; but
would he take them to the spirits Lamarra boldly assented,
and there and then they started for the medium’s lodgings.
A dark seance was immediately held, and the light was scarcely
put out when numerous, very loud explosions, as from fire¬
arms, were heard in the room. This rather startled the
new visitors ; but they were still more surprised when
blows were heard falling on the table as from a large
hammer. The sceptics, however, charged their friend with
producing these noises with some hidden machinery, at
which Lamarra placed in the hands of the new visitors
his own and those of the medium. The noises then ceased,
but instead, the affrighted voices of the non-believers were
heard, piteously asking for a light, for one of them had had
his hair and beard pulled, and his face handled by a large,
callous, ice-cold, perspiring hand; and the other was touched
upon his head and face with an instrument in the shape of a
club, cold and hard as iron. A light was struck, but nothing
was perceived, except the pale faces of the two scoffing young
lawyers, who do not like the subject being meniioned again.
In this case, we must admit, the low intelligences did their
business well.
Having tried every known means to deliver this poor girl
from her tormentors, the Naples Society thought better to
suspend all seances for a time, and as the girl wanted employ¬
ment, she was recommended to a nice place as a servant. In
the night previous to her going to her new master’s, the
spirits appeared, and mockly intimated to her that they would
take care that she should not remain there ; she expostulated
with them, but they laughed and disappeared. She, however,
did go, and was immediately set about cleaning a large draw¬
ing-room, her master an old gentleman being present. All at
once a small table, in a part of the room opposite where Sapia
was, began to move about. This much astonished her new
master ; but while he was wondering in bewilderment, an
awful crash was heard, and a large shade and some china,
which stood on acheffonier some distance from the poor girl,
had fallen to pieces. Frightened more than vexed at these
strange occurrences, and believing them to be the work of
Satan—whose escutcheon in Naples preserves still its ancient
effulgency—Sapia’s master bid her immediately to leave the
house, and the poor medium is again dependent on her friends
and sympathisers.
We have had Sapia mesmerised and thrown into a trance,
in which state kinder spirits have spoken through her, who,
interrogated, have told us these unpleasant phenomena would
give way if we could induce Sapia to cultivate her mind. This
we have tried to do with unremitting patience, but without
avail, as she shows the greatest reluctance and impatience at
being taught the elements of letters. We have done all in
our power to remedy this evil, which deprives us of one of
the best physical mediums in existence. Can any of your
correspondents give any suggestion, that we might by some
new tactics reclaim this remarkable medium, Sapia Padalino.
Naples, Nov. 14th, 1872. G-. Damiani.
It is generally accepted as a truth by educated
Spiritualists, that the lower a spirit is, the greater is
its>power over common matter; some of them have so
much power that they can haunt houses, and do not
need even the presence of a medium to help them to
manifest. These haunting spirits have usually com¬
mitted some great crimes, or led bad lives on earth.
Above these, there are spirits nearly allied to earth,
but not necessarily very bad, and who are working
their way upwards by doing what good they can.
Such spirits often aid in producing the manifestations
through powerful physical mediums. Sometimes a
medium may be found of such low organisation and
low tastes, as to encourage the company of undeveloped
spirits, and any powerful physical medium who gets
into a bad state of mind, say into a furious passion, at
once brings most unpleasant spirits about him, though
if he be a fully developed medium, the control of the
low influences usually ceases in a few hours. We have
witnessed several instances of this; while the medium
is in this -bad state their guardian spirits cannot get
near to protect them, and have not power to drive off
the lower ones.
The medium Sapia does not seem by Signor Damiani’s
account, to be a person of a very bigh order. While
her mediumship was developing she should have been
surrounded by none but a few friends of upright
character, who should have done everything to educate
and elevate her. In the first stages of development,
that is to say, during the first two or three years, a
medium is in more danger from undeveloped spirits
than subsequently, when the guardian spirits have
more power to shut out bad influences. All living
persons have bands of spirits about them, allied to
them in some way not yet understood, and the greatest
danger an undeveloped low class physical medium in¬
curs, is to sit in a seance with a person or persons of
bad character. The worse spirits brought to the seance
by the visitor, then have a chance of getting at the
medium naturally somewhat in affinity with them, and
it may he weeks or months before the medium can
get rid of them. It is towards the close of a seance,
while the medium is weak, that these low spirits have
more power, and it is in the experience of most Spirit¬
ualists that when a visitor brings unpleasant spirits to
a seance, several subsequent seances feel the baneful in¬
fluence, although in the latter cases the visitor may not
again be present. If the medium have no natural
affinity for the lower spirits, the “ casting out of devils ”
is tolerably easy work. A mesmerist, or person with
a strong will, should take the medium at once into the
open air, hold both his hands, and ivill that the evil in¬
fluence shall depart; another person may at the same
time bathe the back of the medium’s head with cold
water. Another plan is to take the medium at once to
a fully developed medium, and hold a seance for the
special purpose of the band of good spirits round one
medium, driving away the bad influences round the
other. The longer the bad influences bre allowed to
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1873.
remain, the stronger control do they get, and the more
difficult is it to drive them off. We have seen both
plans tried in practice. All spirits have much more
difficulty than usual in controlling a powerful physical
medium in the open air when a strong wind is blowing.
Mrs. Hardinge used to say that physical mediums were
persons with large hack brains; if observation should
prove her statement to be accurate, it may account for
the circumstance that the application of cold water to
the back of the head is efficacious in cases of obsession.
Mrs. De Morgan, in From Matter to Spirit, gives evi¬
dence that the lower spirits act upon the base of the
brain of the medium.
A good physical medium should be an upright, intel¬
ligent, and educated person to begin with, in which
case there is less liability to obsession. During the
first two or three years of development, it is perhaps
safest that none but kind personal friends of upright
lives shall have access to the seances of any physical
medium. Signor Damiani should have given a detailed
account of the seance at which Sapia was first influenced
by the bad spirits, and should have given particulars
about the characters of the sitters.
MRS. HOLMES’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The following account of a private seance has been
forwarded to us for publication
On Friday evening, March 7th, 1873, a seance was held at
the house of Mr. Gr. Nelson Strawtridge, Annandale, Upper
Norwood, in the presence of Mr. and Mrs. Strawbridge ; Mr.
Laurence Harrison, of the Stock Exchange; Mr. William
Bristowe, of the Stock Exchange ; Mr. F. P. Obicini, of Stoke
Newington ; Mr. B. Coleman, of Upper Norwood ; Mr, W. S.
Godbe, of Salt Lake City, Utah ; Mr. G. H. Rudall, of Upper
Norwood; Miss Deekins, of Upper Norwood; Mr. W. J.
Champernowne, of Kingston-upon-Thames; and Mr. W. H.
Harrison, of Herne-hill. Messrs. L. Harrison, Bristowe, and
Obicini had never previously attended any seance; the others
had repeatedly observed certain phenomena said to be
spiritual.
The mediums were Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, of 16, Old Quebec-
street, Oxford-street. Mr. Obicini tied the two hands of Mrs.
Holmes to a chair with a cord ; the ends of the cord were
frayed out and sealed by Mr. Strawbridge with his own seal.
Messrs. Laurence Harrison, Bristowe, and Obicini, examined
the tying and sealing, and pronounced themselves satisfied.
Mrs. Holmes sat at the centre of one side of the room alone,
and near her on the table were placed eight or ten musical
instruments, some belonging to Mr. Strawbridge and some
brought by Mr. Holmes.
The members of the circle sat in a semi-circle round a large
sized drawing room, holding each other’s hands, at a distance
from Mrs. Holmes. Mr. Holmes had both his hands held by
Mr. George H. Budall at the further end of the circle, and the
greatest distance from Mrs. Holmes.
The lights were put out and relit occasionally, and the rope
and seal examined. In the intervals of darkness the guitars
and other musical instruments, were instantly played upon,
and were moved about the room while playing with great
rapidity and force, so that in,the course of the evening every
person present was touched by them without being hurt,
whilst a massive five-light glass chandelier was suspended
at low elevation near the centre of the circle.
During two of the intervals of darkness Mr. Strawbridge
was asked to play on the piano; while he did so a tambourine
accompanied and beat time on the back of his head, and he
felt himself repeatedly and rapidly touched.
At one part of the seance Mr. Laurence Harrison, who is
tall, stretched out his feet towards the centre of the room,
without however feeling anything except that one of his boots
was, he said, nearly pulled off.
During two of the intervals of darkness, the chair to which'
Mrs. Holmes’s hands were tied, was also tied to the leg of the
heavy drawing-room table at which she was sitting. Every
time a light was struck, the three gentlemen before alluded to
examined the rope, knots, and seal about Mrs, Holmes’s hands,
and expressed themselves satisfied that they had not been
tampered with.
Mr. Obicini wrote something on a piece of paper which he
wished the alleged unseen intelligences to read, but which
they could not do.
Three of the sitters, Mr. Strawbridge, Mr. Bristowe, and
Mrs. Strawbridge, had what is called “ the ring test.’’ Each
was called up separately in the dark to hold both Mrs.
Holmes’s hands, and while their hands were joined they felt each
other’s head and arms all over to make sure there was no ring
on, and without disjoining hands, each sitter felt and admitted
that the rings were then lying upon the table. While the
hands were joined, Mr. Strawbridge was repeatedly touched
over his body, and one of the musical instruments was playing
at the same moment. Suddenly a tambourine ring, encircled
by iron, came upon Mr. Strawbridge’s arm, and when a light
was struck, the ring was taken off and examined, to see that
there was no joint in it. The ring test was also given to Mr.
Bristowe under similar conditions, and on the light being put
up, a wooden tambourine ring was found upon his arm. Mrs.
Strawbridge was called up for the ring-test, and Mr. Rudall
wTas [requested to place a hand on each of her shoulders, it
being stated that otherwise there was not power enough left
to get the ring on. In this instance a welded iron ring, six
inches in diameter, provided by Mr. Strawbridge, and never
seen by the medium till the evening of the seance, was then
found upon Mrs. Strawbridge’s arm, whilst Mrs. Holmes’s
hands were firmly held by her.
Mr. Obicini was invited to have the ring test, but declined
unless it could be accomplished in the light.
Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Holmes went into an excellent
and complete cabinet (size 4 ft. by 3 ft., and 8 ft. high) made
expressly for Mr. Strawbridge for spirit faces, but the light
outside being dim, and the power inside stated to be weak,
none, of the few faces were recognised, nor could they be seen
to be living faces. This manifestation was not satisfactory.
In the course of this seance, some of Mr. Strawbridge’s
musical instruments were played upon. Two voices were
heard from time to time addressing those present, sometimes
calling them by name. One voice was said to be that of
Robert, and the other of Rosie. Immediately before the
seance Mrs. Holmes, at her own request, was accompanied to
a bedroom by Mrs. Strawbridge and Miss Deekins, and her
person examined. They both expressed themselves satisfied.
The two doors, viz.,—the drawing room door and the door lead¬
ing into the conservatory, were locked by Mr. Strawbridge,
and the keys taken out. The seance lasted from 7.30 till II
p.m.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On the 6th of March, Kathleen
Rogers, aged 19, daughter of E. D. Rogers, Esq., Dalyell-road,
Stockwell.
Washihgtoh Irving wrote, “ The desolation which
walks through palaces admits not the familiar sympathies
and sweet consolations which alleviate the sorrows of common
life.”
As to the origin of evil, Plato is conceived neither to
have imputed it to God Himself, nor derived it from un¬
qualified matter, nor yet from an irrational and malevolent
soul, but considered it the necessity of imperfect beings.
Spiritualism in Edinburgh.—A Psychological Society
has just been formed in Edinburgh, under the presidency of
Mr. G. B. Clark. Mr. J. D. Morrison, of 27, Grange-road,
Edinburgh, is the secretary. Spirit circles have been formed,
and results obtained.
j |The Pstchological Committee.—Unofficial information
has reached us that the Psychological Committee of the An¬
thropological Instituted, St. Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square,
will probably begin its work by inquiring thoroughly into
mesmerism. The old workers in mesmerism who can give
information on phreno-mesmerism and kindred subjects, and
lecturers who can show experiments, should put themselves in
communication with the secretary to the institute, Mr. J. F.
Collingwood. If the committee were to present the world
with a report, in the shape of a standard book on mesmerism
and clairvoyance, their labours will have produced most
valuable results. Mr. Serjeant Cox has just joined the insti¬
tute as a member.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
L., Dundee.—This correspondent wishes to know the names an
addresses of other friends in Dundee interested in psychological
subjects.
March 15, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
The Rev. J. Murray Spear is now in Philadelphia.
Dn. Johnson once remarked, U All severity that does not
tend to increase good, or prevent evil, is idle. I said to the
Lady Abbess of a convent, ‘ Madam, you are here, not for the
love of virtue but the fear of vice.’ ”
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
Theology, Philosophy, and Logic.—One Fisher, a
Primitive Quaker, who lived during the Commonwealth, thus
addressed Dr. Owen, a celebrated Calvinistic divine :—“ Thou
fiery fighter and green-headed trumpeter; thou hedgehog and
grinning dog ; thou bastard, that tumbled out of the mouth
of the Babylonish bawd ; thou mole ; thou tinker ; thou
lizard ; thou bell of mo mettle but the tone of a kettle ; thou
wheelbarrow; thou whirlpool ; thou whirlgig ; 0 thou fire¬
brand ! thou adder and scorpion ; thou louse ; thou mooncalf ;
thou ragged tatterdemallion ; thou Judas ; thou livest in
philosophy and logic, which are of the devil.”—Notes to
Southey's Life of Wesley.
The “Spiritualist” Subscription List.—We have re¬
ceived the following letter :—“Sir,—I think no one can
doubt that we, as Spiritualists, are much indebted to you
for publishing your paper twice instead of once a month ; but
it is not fair that you should sustain the loss thereby in¬
curred ; I will, therefore, give £5- towards making up the
£30 named in your last number, if five others will do the
same before the 15th of April. I enclose my card, for the in¬
formation of Mr. Dawe, the treasurer to the fund, but not for
publication.—Justice.” Mr. B. Pycock and “ A Clergyman ”
have each kindly subscribed £1 to the fund since our last
issue ; and Mr. Strawbridge has raised his subscription by
£1 Is.
The belief of a Savage.—Washington Irving states
that an aged native Indian said to Columbus, “I am told
that thou hast lately come to these lands with a mighty
force, and hast subdued many countries, spreading great fear
among the people, but be not therefore vainglorious. Know
that according to our belief, the souls of men have two
journeys to perform after they have departed from the body ;
one to a place dismal, foul, and covered with darkness, pre¬
pared for such as have been unjust and cruel to their fellow-
men ; the other, full, of delight, for such as have promoted
peace on earth. If then, thou art mortal, and dost expect to
die, beware that thou hurt no man wrongfully, neither do
harm to those who have done no harm to thee.” A few years
later, and the Spanish priests were “ converting ” these
Indians by roasting and torturing them.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM (Established September 15th, 1870).—The Council
have much pleasure in announcing to the public that they have secured the
services of Dr. GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., F.R.G.S., F.Z.S.,
&c., to deliver the third annual public LECTURE, on Thursday evening,
March 27th, 1873, at the Luxembourg Hall (opposite Dalston Junction-sta¬
tion). Subject—“ Spiritualisni; its Phenomenal, Philosophical, Scientiflo,
and Religious Aspects.” The chair will be taken by Henry D. Jencken,
Esq., F.R.G.S. Questions will be allowed at the close of the Lecture.
Doors open at Half-past Seven o’clock; the Lecture to commence at
Eight precisely. Admission—Reserved Seats, One Shilling; Body of Hall
and Balcony, Sixpence; Members of the Association, Free.
Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library, Dal-
ston-lane; Mr. J. Sparey, 13, Middleton-road, Dalston; Mr. George Blyton,
12, Forest-road, Dalston; Messrs. Stephens and Webster, at the ‘‘Ball’s
Pond Association of Spiritualists,” 1-02, Ball’s Pond-road, Islington; at the
Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, where copies of the
Prospectus and Rules, with other information can also be obtained; and at
the Doors of the Hall on the evening of the Lecture.
A CARD.
MISS ANNA BLACKWELL begs to offer a copy of
Spiritualism and Spiritism to enquirers who will call for it at Mr.
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C., or send a half-penny stamp
for postage.
Paris, March 10, 1873.
Gk
H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
Cl, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from ... ... 0 13 6 I Black Suit, from  3' 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
President—The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —1 o provide educated women with proper facilities fqr learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
EMANGEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein tlie History, the
Doctrines, and the other-worid Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. TheVolumeis illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. .Teens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46.^111. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80. *
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of his comments, and
the picturesque detail with which he crowds his pages, that Mr. White at
once captivates attention. The work may be described as a long exhaustive
gossip about Swedenborg, his writings, and his disciples; pleasant thought¬
ful gossip from a mind which impresses you as being kindly and truthful
above the common. We can with confidence assure thoughtful readers
that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s biography than in any
work of the year whose professed object is to entertain.’’—Pall Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq....   15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”   10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq       5 0 0
O. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S. ....   5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox      5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)     5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq....      5 0 0
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq   '  5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder  1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder ...   ;  10 0
Mrs. Rudd     10 0
“Longfellow”   1 0 0
Mr. Withall  1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird >    10 0
Mr. George Dawson      ... 10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers      10 0
Mr. Rogers    ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald     10 0
Mrs. Gunyon  10 0
  8' 0 0
“Bitterness’ • ...4 4 0
“A Friend,” Temple •   3 3 0
N. F, Daw, Esq       3 3 ' 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S    3 3 0
James Wason, Esq.   3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness   2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston    12 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq  2 0 0
John Beattie, Esq.      2 0 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq. ...     2 0 0
“A Friend,’’Manchester     1 1 0
Benjamin Coleman, Esq  1 1 0
E. Musgrave, Esq  1 1 0
“V.”  110
A Clergyman of the Church of England    110
B. W. Pyoock, Esq     ... ... 110
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D.   ’.  ... 10 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell        10 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)   1 0 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S  ... ...   10 0
Miss Kislingbury     ... 1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   10 0
Miss J. H. Douglas           1 0 0
“AFriend”         10 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B  1 0 0
Mrs. Hennings          1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq  0 10 0
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman. chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
144
THE SPIKITUALIST,
March 15, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives^
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to.be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is hot yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
natm'e. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced “freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations ?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and-very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Sfikitualism deserves investigation because witninthe last twenty years
t has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, 'Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq. M.D.; Eev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Sohcitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.’’
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible tq the 'touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance. , ■ 7 ni .r
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-commiitees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
‘ ‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface. ,
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
N INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harms, M.D..
(■Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler
engraved from a Photograph by Jambs Partridge, Esq.
THE LAiST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871 and the “Dark Blue” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten¬
bury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter 0. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlow,
Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady Rolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Rolle, J. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S.Morley, Esq., M.P., Dr. John Brown (“Rab and His
Friends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq, John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., C.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Algernon C. Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq.,
(Earthly Paradise), F. Madox Brown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan,
Esq., M.P., Jos. Aspinwall, Esq., &c., &c.
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. George Fraser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andre w-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
