A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E££ OF THE JSCIEJSfCE AND
[BEGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
ETHIC3 OF J3Pn\ITUAEI£M,
No. 68.—(Yol. III.—No. 29.) LONDON: DECEMBER 12, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
Contents
Lately published,
w
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
Spirit Forms.—Mr. Coleman on Spirit Forms—Mr. Blackburn on
Spirit Forms      451
Mediumship of a Baby ...    ...    ... 465
The Dialetical Society.—Spiritualism and its Dangers—Science and
Superstition—Spiritualism and the Churches—Spiritualism and
Insanity—Spiritualism and 'Witchcraft—Facts versus Opinions—
Good and Evil Spirits—Psychic Foice and Unconscious Cerebration
—The Use of the Divining Rod—The Sensations of a Medium—
Spiritualism and Priestcraft    456
Trance Mediumship and Physics        ... 459
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh   ... 460
Poetry.—Departed!    460
Gross Outrage at-a Spirit Circle   461
Correspondence.—The Identity of the Spirit “ John Watt ”   461
Answers to Correspondents ...     462
Paragraphs:—Mr. Peebles at Home, 455; The Mystery of Edwin
Drood, 455 ; Lecture at Gower-street, 455; The National Associa¬
tion, 462; Spiritualist’s Funeral in New Zealand, 462; Anthropology 463
Crown Svo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “ EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common f ense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetinos. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.80 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services arh Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
• IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
^ Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny,
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police,
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer,
450
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1873,
Cjxe Spiritualist gritrspapu
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because at
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Betters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Ail communications for the Advertising Department of tins newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. Cd. <
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Am/ delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
JjOndon or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our pvhlisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. K. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. B. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the followin dealers in Spiritua
pCi lOUlOchib :—■
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Sno w4 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614-, North Fifth-street,
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
1) ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS LNTO
SPIRIIUALISM. (Established 187(1)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E. J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of. Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstra'ed. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
bo as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
iiduce others to give the matter caieful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi
Mai-yeeanceheldon the first Thursday evening m each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional meiia. lectures, discussicns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Voe first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
CORA L. Y. TAPPAN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
Of the 23rd October—at Westbnurne Hall,
ARE NOW BEING DELIVERED
^yERY WEDNESDAY EVENING AT LAWSON’S ROOMS,
145, GOWER-STREET.
Pool's open at 7. 30. Admission, la. and 6d. each.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—'Mr. John Lament.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr.-John Moore.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament,
Mr. William Meredith
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw
Mr. John Lament.
Mr. Wm. Richardson,
Mrs. L. A. Lament.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Mornington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of develop ng th«ir physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, rtadiug-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active memhers and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into cons deration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., ar. the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
MOST comfortably FURNISHED HOUSE, at
HENDON, to be LET for Six Months or more, <?r the FREEHOLD
would be SOLD. It stands on high ground in a large well-stocked and
ornamental garden, contains three -reception rooms, six bedrooms, bath
room and neoefsary domestic offices, piano, plate, linen, &c. Unusual ad¬
vantages for a Spirit Circle. Add rets Morejl Theobald, Esq., Fernside,
Hendpn, If. W.
Deo. 12, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
451
SPIRIT FORMS.
Some two or three years ago, when information first
reached this country about the appearance of spirit
forms to seven or eight persons at the same time,
through the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, of Moravia,
in the State of New York,.the tidings were received,
even by Spiritualists, with a considerable amount of
incredulity, the manifestation being of such an
astounding nature. Soon after the publication of the
details in these pages, several mediums in London began
to sit for spirit forms. Messrs. Herne and Williams
soon obtained spirit faces at dark seances, the spirits
manufacturing a light of their own, which they held in
their hands to show themselves by. Miss Florence
Cook began about the same time to obtain spirit faces
by the artificial light of gas or a candle, and she con¬
tinued to sit exclusively for this kind of manifestation,
which rapidly increased in power, in consequence of her
being surrounded by good conditions, freed from all the
troubles and anxieties of professional mediumship,
chiefly through the kindness of Mr. Blackburn of
Manchester.
In consequence of the facilities given us for observing
the manifestations at this circle, for a considerable
period we observed the development of the phenomena
there, and made them matters of close study. At the
outset it was clear that these phenomena were some¬
what allied in kind to the more common physical mani¬
festations, that is to say, that mediums who could get
spirit voices, the playing of musical instruments by
unseen hands, the movements of solid objectsj, and
raps, could, as a general rule, get spirit forms in more
or less perfection, by sitting for them.
The development of spirit forms at Miss Cook’s,
began in this wise. One day the spirit Katie told
Mrs. Cook, that if she would hang curtains across the
door of the breakfast parlour, and close the shutters of
the room to give darkness, then place the medium in
the darkened room, while the observers stood in the
passage outside, she would show them something. The
experiment was tried, a dim light only being allowed in
the passage. Soon a death-like face, with staring eyes,
and surrounded by white drapery, protruded from be¬
tween the curtains of the temporary cabinet, somewhat
to the alarm of Mrs. Cook, as the face was not a nice one
to gaze upon. This was the first attempt of the spirits
to materialise themselves in that house. Week by
week, the manifestations increased in power, although
for a long time only a feeble light was permitted, and
the face was covered to a great extent with white
drapery. It has been all along stated by the spirits,
that it is more difficult to show bare arms and faces,
because it consumes much more power than the showing
of masses of white drapery. They have several times
stated that the chief use of the drapery is to economise
the power, and to this day the tops and backs of their
heads have never been completely freed from drapery at
this circle.
It may not be amiss to mention here, how when
Mr. S. C. Hall, and a party of friends, saw the spirit
of Mr. Hall’s sister through the mediuraship of Mr.
D. D. Home, Lord.Lindsay, who was present, remarked
that she had something white on the top of her head,
resembling a mutch or Scotch cap. Mr. Crisp, of Cam¬
berwell, once informed us that many years ago, he saw
a spirit face looking out of the cabinet of the Davenport
Brothers, and that it had something whit© on it© head,
which he took to be a baker’s cap.
The spirits at Herne and Williams had white drapery
about them. All these different examples, extending over
a long period of time, and in connection with different
mediums, show that a general connection runs through
the whole of the phenomena; moreover, everybody
knows that the time honoured orthodox ghost is always
supposed to be dressed in white.
Dr. Purdon, of Sandown, Isle of Wight, was the
first to see the face of the spirit Katie in strong
daylight, and he was exceedingly startled and pained
to discover the strong resemblance of her features
to the features of Miss Cook, which, it will be re¬
membered, caused the medium a great deal of trouble at
the time, until it was discovered that the faces through
all the other mediums in London, bore more or less
resemblance to themselves.* It appears as if spirits,
when clothing themselves with matter, find it most con¬
venient to take the material form of the instrument
through whom they act. Although the faces of Miss
Cook and Katie were very much alike, it was soon
found that there were also strange differences, varying
in amount at different times. Sometimes the spirit
face would be half as big again as the face of the medium,
and the parts of the face which seemed to be least
subject to change, were the lines of the nose and
eyebrows. The similarity of the features of the media
and the spirits, soon gave rise to an elaborate system of
testing, to relieve mediums, especially those engaged in
the rough work of proselytising, from the odium of
being supposed to do the manifestations themselves, so
that at the present time nearly all the mediums in
England Avho get spirit forms and faces, are bound
with ropes and sealed with signet rings in their cabinets
while the manifestations are going on.
To return to Miss Cook’s seances. After a time
Katie began to exhibit not only the whole of her bare
face, but her hands and arms in a strong light. In
these early stages of the development of the manifesta¬
tions, Miss Cook was nearly always awake while the
manifestations were going on, but sometimes when the
weather was bad, or the other conditions unfavourable,
Katie would entrance her; the effect of the saidentrance-
mentbeing simply to increase the power of the manifesta¬
tions. The medium usually objected to be entranced,
because she very naturally wished to see and hear what was
going on, although sometimes the sight made her nervous.
She said that it was not pleasant to be shut up in a
nearly dark room with a person in white floating about
in it, who had a head and shoulders, but no legs or
body. The activity of the mind of the medium also
seemed to interfere with the manifestations, and after
a time Katie never appeared without the medium being
in a trance. From that time for the next year or two,
Miss Cook never saw the materialised form of the spirit
Katie, although of late she has seen her again on one
or two occasions. Now that the spirit Katie appears
in full form, and even walks about in the room outside
the cabinet, she says if her medium were to wake up
while she (Katie) is outside the cabinet, she would be
in considerable danger; she also sometimes says that
malignant spirits occasionally attempt to wake up the
medium at inconvenient times. In like manner Mr.
Williams never sees John King; he is always entranced
while John is manifesting.
News also came from America, where the prqctica}
* A letter by Mr. Guppy, in which, he narrates how faces he has seen
through Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship resembled the face of the medium, wifi
be found in No. 4? of The Spirityalftf.
452
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 12, 1873.
knowledge of Spiritualism is so much in advance of
our own, that through Mrs. Andrews and other mediums,
the spirits of deceased relatives of the sitters commonly*
made themselves visible. Some sittings, for recognisable
faces, were held at Miss Cook’s, and the spirit Katie
said that while they were showing themselves, on no
account was the medium to go to sleep, and that if she
did she was to be taken out of the cabinet at once. It
soon therefore became clear, that the W recognisable
face manifestations ” were altogether different in kind
from the appearance of the John’s and Katie’s,, who so
commonly manifest through different physical mediums.
Katie said that while these strange faces were about,
malignant spirits who sometimes tried to interfere with
their work, always began by trying to put the medium
to sleep. It will be remembered also, as another
example of the way in which different manifestations
fit in with each other, that Mrs. Andrews is always
awake in the cabinet while recognisable faces come,
and she, like the observers outside, commerits upon their
general appearance.
Another circumstance was noted in connection with
the advent of these recognisable faces at Miss Cook’s.
Noises and disturbances became common in the' house,
and trinkets and other small articles were often miss¬
ing ; sometimes they ‘ were found hidden away, and
sometimes stolen altogether. It was quite clear that
the medium was passing through a period of danger, and
there were disagreeable influences about. Katie said
it was an ordeal which all mediums must pass through
before getting recognisable faces. Of course, when low
spirits of this nature were about, every kind of protec¬
tion should be thrown over the medium, but it chanced
that at the same period visitors were admitted very
freely out of pure kindness to Miss Cook’s seances, and
if an occasional failure occurred, some few of them put
the worst construction upon it, thereby causing the
medium additional trouble and annoyance. It was
further found that these strange faces began, as did
Katie’s, in a weak light, and were imperfect; in fact,
this new manifestation wanted cultivating under the
influence of genial sitters for many months, just as
the Katie manifestation had done, and it was impossible
to do this when visitors were admitted, who wanted to
see startling manifestations, and not new and imperfect
ones in their undeveloped form. Eor all these reasons
sitting for recognisable faces was discontinued, but it is
to be hoped that they will be resumed at some future
time. These facts are very interesting, as tending to
prove the desirability of entirely separating scientific
from proselytising work in Spiritualism, since this
manifestation was not perfected, solely in consequence
of the fear of showing undeveloped phenomena to
visitors who wanted tests,
While these recognisable faces were about, some few
very good ones were seen. A gentleman, who is a
Deputy Lieutenant of one of the Western counties, and
an intimate friend of Mr. Luxmoore, saw the face of his
departed father in strong gas light five or six times over,
so that there could be no mistake about it. Miss Cook’s
servant also saw the face of her grandmother; it was
an aged face with spectacles. All the other persons in
the room saw these faces at the same time, so that they
were objective realities and not hallucinations.
More recent developments at Miss Cook’s circle, such
as the appearance of Katie in full form, and her walking
about the room, and her being able to bear so strong a
light as to be photographed, are fresh in the memories
of the readers of these pages. Of late Miss Cook has
seen Katie once or twice when materialised, the spirit
waking her up for that purpose. Some new manifes¬
tation also appears to be beginning, for occasional
strong lights flash up inside the cabinet, and last for a
minute or two, the rays streaming through cracks and
curtains into the room outside. Miss Cook, who was
awake once when this light appeared, said that she saw
Katie standing before her with a globe in her hand, about
the size of one of the India-rubber balloons used by
children. This globe was wholly luminous all over, but
most luminous nearest to Katie’s breast. This globe
produced the light, the rays from which were seen by
the observers outside, but the large globe itself with its
powerful light, has not yet been seen by anybody but
the medium.
Where the white drapery of the spirits comes from is a
mystery. The manifestations were too important in their
nature not to be verified in every possible way, although
to the many who know the integrity of the medium,
tests are not considered to be necessary. Nevertheless,
not only is the medium bound and sealed while the
manifestations are going on, but sometimes she has
requested ladies to accompany her to her bedroom to
take off all her clothes and to search her, to see that
she had no drapery of the kind concealed about her.
At the same time the cabinet has also been thoroughly
searched. The cabinet is nothing but a large cupboard,
with no concealed machinery about it, and, in fact, the
manifestations go on just the same at the residences of
Mr. Luxmoore, Dr. Purdon and others, away from the
home of the medium. Katie says she makes this
drapery out of matter obtained from the dresses of all
the sitters in the circle. She says that when she is
forming herself she materialises the drapery first, and
lier own body afterwards ; indeed, one or two persons
have thought that they have seen Katie’s head on the
floor, in the middle of a heap of drapery, just inside the
cabinet, although this has not been witnessed in a good
light.
Two hypotheses have been mooted to account for
the phenomenon. One is, that the spirit Katie is not
an independent spirit, but the spirit, or “ double ” of
the medium, and certainly, in mental capacity, Katie is
considerably limited by the intellectual capacity of the
medium. But when the medium is awake, Katie and
she carry on conversations and arguments with each
other; in sucji case they would appear to be two dis¬
tinct individualities. The other speculation, and the
one to which we most incline is, that Katie is an inde¬
pendent spirit, allied in tastes and inclinations to the
medium, consequently, much resembling her in mental
capacity. Perhaps the spirit in attempting to com¬
municate with mortals, is much limited by the mental
powers of her medium, and by the conditions of mani¬
festing, so that in the materialised spirit we have a
mixture of the individualities of Katie and of Miss
Cook. Time and close study alone can unravel these
mysteries. The following is an article on the subject
written by Mr. Benjamin Coleman in the last number
of the Spiritual Magazine, in which he describes a
seance held at the house of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, 16,
Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W., on the 18th Nov.
last:—
ME. COLEMAN ON SPIBIT POEMS,
The seance was given in the large drawing room, in which
an ordinary fire was kept burning throughout the.evening.
The small drawing-room, separated by sliding doors, was ap¬
propriated as a cabinet, and a dark curtain was hung between
Dec!. 12, 1873.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
453
the open panels, by which all light was excluded. A lamp
was placed on the table of the audience room, where there was
a fire, and at no time was it dark ; it was not in fact what is
called “ a dark seance." The fourteen ladies and gentlemen
who formed a horseshoe circle in front of the cabinet could
see each other the whole evening. A low chair was placed in
the cabinet, upon which Miss Cook, the medium, was seated,
and Mr. Luxmoore invited Mr. B., of Manchester, and myself
to witness the tying and securing of Miss Cook. Her hands
were first tied together with a piece of tape, the ends of which
were sewn and sealed with wax, and then the tape was passed
round her waist and tightly knotted and se^n, and sealed
again. The tape was then passed through a staple in the floor,
leaving a slack of about a foot, and there knotted again,
which restrained Miss Cook from standing up to her full
height, and then the same piece of tape was brought into the
room in which we were seated, nearly up to our feet, where it
remained undisturbed to the last.
In this way the most satisfactory proof was given that who¬
ever the figure of Katie may be, it was not Miss Cook, who
lay during the whole seance, as we had proved to us by the
undisturbed line of tape, and by Mrs. Honywood being in¬
vited to enter the cabinet by the spirit the instant she,
Katie disappeared ; which Mrs. Honywood did, and there
she saw Miss Florence Cook asleep, leaning over nearly to
the floor,—the ties on her hands and waist sealed as they
had been left at the commencement of the sitting, from
which, as soon as she awoke, she was relieved by cutting
them.
Here we all saw within an instant or two, this young girl
recovering from her trance, dressed in black, wearing stock¬
ings and spring boots, having just lost sight of Katie, the
spirit, who was clothed in pure white garments, and whose
feet were naked. It is several months since I was invited to
the first and only seance I had previously had with Miss
Florence Cook, and what I then witnessed assured me of her
entire integrity, and that of her family, and at the request
of the editor of the Spiritualist I recorded my impressions
of that evening in his journal ; and now, after a second
seance with Miss Cook, at the residence of a private gentle¬
man, where I have witnessed phenomena of a similar but
much more extraordinary character, I am confirmed in my
first impressions.
So many accounts have been already given of the material¬
ised spirit-form appearing in tangible shape, that I cannot
hope to do more than add my testimony in this journal to the
fact, and as one of the many facts (at first denied even by
Spiritualists), which I have ventured to place on record in the
last twenty years, I say this is a fact which admits of no ex¬
planation by psychic force or any recognised force, and with
these facts we must now deal.
In the first instance, the medium on this occasion was tied
with tape, as I have before said, by Mr. Luxmoore, in the
most thorough and complete manner, and left alone in dark¬
ness in the small room which served the purpose of an ordi¬
nary cabinet. The members forming the circle were requested
to join hands, not to sing as it is usual to do to establish har¬
mony, for there were no sceptics present, nor were they re¬
stricted to silence, but conversation continued until our
attention was attracted to the cabinet by the sound of two
voices there, the one being that of the medium just before she
was entranced, and the other that of Katie, the spirit or
“ double ” of the medium.
And here permit me to break the narrative to interpose
some observations on this question of the “ Double ”—the
“Wraith” of the Scotch—the “Doppelganger” of the Ger¬
mans, a recognised psychological fact.
In the Spiritual Magazine, vol. vi,, 1865, pp. 125-7, I gave
some instances connected with the Davenports and others of
these appearances which have tended to deceive ordinary
observers, and I said in conclusion, the “ theory which I now
venture to suggest is, that many manifestations which Spirit¬
ualists are accustomed to attribute to the spirits of the de¬
parted, are in truth effected by the medium’s own double,”
and I have now in this exhibition of a materialised spirit-form
realised that extraordinary fact, and it is to be hoped that
some of the philosophic minds which are now engaged in the
study of Spiritualism will follow up this train of thought if
possible to a logical conclusion.
The evidence which establishes the question of the “ double”
in this particular instance is, I think, conclusive. As soon as
the medium became entranced, the figure of Katie glided,
somewhat timidly at first, into the lighted room in which we
were all seated, and she presented the exact features of Miss
Cook. It was not, as I have said, Miss Cook bodily, for she
was asleep, dressed in black, behind the folds of the curtain.
Katie’s voice, though much lower in tone, and her graceful
manner, are like the medium’s. Her conversation and her
knowledge of persons are the same, and some of the expres¬
sions which I heard her utter were, in emphasis and words,
exactly those of Miss Cook. I know that it is said that the
spirit’s face is somewhat larger than the medium’s, and her
height, as I observed by the measurement on that evening, is
a couple of inches taller ; but these points, I am told, vary,
and do not disturb the main question, for I do not imagine
that any “ double” is moulded in exact counterpart of the
original, and the question will still remain; what is the
“ double,” how does it take shape and form, and how are we
to know a “ double” from any independent spirit ?
Now to resume a brief narrative of what occurred.
The figure of Katie entered the room, and I observed that
she was clad in a loose white dress tied in at the waist, hav¬
ing long sleeves, terminating at the wrists (a previous like¬
ness which I have seen show her arms bare from the
shoulders) with a close hood on her head, long lappets hanging
over her shoulders, and her hair closely banded.
She at once saluted each of us in turn. “ How do you do,
Mr. Coleman? How is Miss Deekens?” (my step-daughter,
known to Miss Cook) and paused to ask the name of the only
stranger in the room, whom Miss Cook did not know. Mr.
Luxmoore sat close to the division between the two rooms,
within reach of the lamp, which stood upon a table by his
side, and which he regulated by turning it up or down by the
direction of the spirit.
I had asked some questions from Katie, and as from the
centre where I was first placed I could not see very clearly,
she said I might break the circle, and invited me to a seat
next to Mr. Luxmoore, which greatly facilitated my means of
observation, and as several incidents were elicited by asking
questions in a kindly manner, I venture to say to those who
conduct these seances that investigators should not be too
strictly enjoined to wait for the spirit to take the initiative.
I asked if she had shoes and stockings on. She said. No !
and at once drew aside her dress, and showed us that her feet
were naked : and to satisfy all, she raised one foot on to the
dress of Mrs. Corner in the most natural manner, and said,
“ Now you can all see that I have bare feet, can’t you ?”
Mr. Bielfield, who was present, brought with him a very
nicely painted picture in oil of Katie, taken from a photograph,
which seemed to give much pleasure to Miss Cook, who thanked
him several times. This picture was lying on the table, and
Katie, asked if she might look at it, and at once took it up
with both hands, and after gazing on it for a moment, ex¬
claimed, “ Why, this is me ?” and, pressing it to her breast,
she said, “ I am so much obliged to you ! I am so much obliged
to you, Mr.|Bielfield, I am so much obliged to you 1” (Precisely
the same expressions used in my hearing by Miss Cook to Mr.
Bielfield, with the portrait in her hands).
There were several sheets of writing paper and pencils on
this table, and I asked her if she would be good enough to
write something for me. “ Yes, I will,” and extending her
hand behind the curtain, she brought out one of the drawing¬
room chairs and sat down upon it. A sheet of paper and a
lead pencil were then handed to her, and she asked me what
she should write. I said, “ I am engaged in getting up a
testimonial to Judge Edmonds, perhaps you have something to
say to him ?” Upon this she raised one knee and commenced
writing ; but finding the position uncomfortable, she asked for
something hard “to rest the paper upon.” This being sup¬
plied, she wrote off the following letter :—
“My dear Friend,—You have asked me to write a few words to you. I
wish you every success with regard to Judge Edmonds’ testimonial. He is
a good man and an earnest worker. Give him my affectionate greeting. I
know him well, although he does not know me. My power is going, so
with every good wish,
“I am, your sincere friend,
“ Katie King,
"Properly Annie Morgan.”
The letter was handed back to me, and I read it aloud, and
then said to her, “ I see you have not addressed itshe took
it back and deliberately folded it upon her knee and wrote on
the back—“ Mr. Coleman.” I then asked her to give one of
the ladies a kiss, which she did, and to let us hear if she could
make a sound by stamping with her feet, which she also did.
Finally I requested her to let me feel the texture of her
dress, and she replied by coming round past the back of Mr.
Luxmoore’s chair side-ways, as there was barely room to pass,
and holding up the dress to me I took it with both hands and
pulled it, and it was to all appearance in substance as if it
454
THE SPIRITUALIST.
were made of strong white calico. She then passed round the
circle and shook hands by gently touching the hands of each.
Both her hands and her face throughout the seance were of a
perfectly natural colour, the reverse of pallid ; her cheeks were
red, and hands decidedly so ; in fact, her whole appearance
was that of a gentle and graceful young woman. She stooped
down to pick up two sheets of paper which were in her way
whilst crossing the room, and stepped aside to lay them on
the table. This completed the impression, which all must
have felt, that we had been for an hour and a half holding in¬
tercourse with an intelligent living woman, who glided, rather
than walked about, and who showed by her constant watch¬
fulness of the medium, that there was the tie to which she
was bound. Katie, in fact, seemed from her constant anxiety
about the condition of the medium to feel that if she moved
or woke up, her'(the spirit’s) own existence, so to speak, would
be at an end.
The disappearance of Katie, when Mrs. Honywood entered
the cabinet, I have already described, and when Miss Cook
awoke, she resumed her wonted cheerfulness without appear¬
ing in the least distressed. It was altogether a marvellous
exhibition, suggesting serious reflections, well worthy of
earnest investigation by all thoughtful enquirers engaged in
psychological studies.
The following is a letter from Mr. Blackburn on the
same subject:—•
MR. BIACKBURjV ON SPIRIT FORMS.
My Dear Coleman,—Your letter in the Spiritual Magazine
of this month. I was glad to see, but I differ from you in the
conclusions you have come to, viz., that the spirit form is Miss
Cook’s double. Its appearance, I grant, is very like
Miss Cook, and its language very similar in expression, though
in fainter tones, both of which may be derived from some in¬
fluence from the medium, and therefore partake of her very
nature when used in this life. But when we consider that an
attendant spirit upon any living person is very similar in all
respects to those they attend upon, as Swedenborg says, but of a
purer and more elevated kind (thus leading forward from
earth up to heaven), you will see it is possible you are mistaken.
That form has told me it is not Miss Cook’s double^ for I
have heard the two actually quarrelling in the cabinet before
Miss Cook has gone into trance, and that form has gone to
Miss Cook’s bed to lay down before Miss Cook went to sleep.
I therefore say it is not her double but an attendant spirit, but
of what substance or composition I am ignorant.
Chas. Blackburn.
The following letter about a seance held subsequently
to that described by Mr. Coleman, deals incidentally
with the question of “ the double ”:—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist.”
Sir,—On Friday evening, 28th Nov., a seance was held at
Mr. Luxmoore’s, in Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, Miss Cook
being the presiding medium. With three exceptions the circle
was composed of friends who had repeatedly sat under the
same mediumship, thus the harmony, physical and mental,
was well established, and the manifestations commenced soon
and were powerful. The spirit, Katie King, appeared this
time dressed in a longer and more flowing white dress than
usual, the sleeves reaching to the wrists and bound there,
whilst over her head and face a beautifully transparent veil
fell, giving to the whole figure an appearance of grace and
purity which is not easily conveyed by words. The spirit
greeted every one in the circle by name; then retired into
the dark room, where she was heard moving heavy furniture
about, and talking to the medium, who was sealed and bound
as usual. She then brought a large bowl into the circle and
gave it to the hands of a sitter. Afterwards she brought a
low chair, or prie-dieu, out of the dark room, and placed it
wholly in the circle, sat down upon it, and desired that the
sitters should sing, but not loudly, as she would try to join
them, which she did with the clear contralto voice which she
has several times exhibited. It is impossible to convey the
impression of that voice issuing from an inhabitant of the
outre-tombe l She then begged that all would join hands in
order that she might get all possible power for what she
wished to do, and whilst we, the sitters, did so, she retired for
a minute or two to get fresh power from her medium, re¬
turned, and then deliberately walked round the entire circle
(composed of fourteen persons) and touched each one in turn,
some of the ladies on the cheek, the men on the hands; one
man she told to put out his hand and she would show him
that she could press it, which she did. The circle occupied
Deo. 12, 1873.
a great portion of a large-sized drawing-room. She then de¬
sired to be questioned, and something like this colloquy took
place :—
“ Is it possible for you to explain to us what are the powers
or forces you employ in materialising and dissolving your
form?” “No, it is not.” “ Is it'electricity or does it bear
any resemblance to it ? ” “ No; it is all nonsense what they
talk about electricity.” But have you no name or mode of
conveying it ? ” “It is more like mill-power than anything
else ; in fact, it is the will which is at the bottom of the power
1 exercise.” “ When you disappear where is it to ? ” “Into
the medium, giving her back all the vitality 1 took from her.
When I have got very much power from her, if anyone of you
were to take her suddenly round the waist and try to carry
her, you might kill her on the spot: she might suffocate. I
can go in and out her readily, but, understand, I am not her,
not her double ; they talk a deal of rubbish about doubles : 1
am myself all the time.” “ When you dissolve, which part
disappears the first, the body or the dress ? ” The body, of
course ; it’s material power goes back to her and then the dress
goes into its elements.” “ Do you think one in the flesh can
ever appreciate the powers you use in manifesting ? ”, “ No ;
you, never can.” “ You speak of being yourself, and not a
double of the medium—who were you when in the flesh?”
“ I was Annie Morgan.” “Were you married?” “Yes;
but don’t talk of that.” (At this she retired behind the cur¬
tain, apparently either hurt or grieved at the question, a state
she has exhibited before when questioned about her married
life.) She speedily returned, and was asked, “ Have you a
husband now?” “ Of course I have.” “Can you give us
any idea under what reign you lived?” “/ left tlie body
when 1 was twenty-one years old, and 1 lived in the latter part
of the reign of Charles I., during the Commonwealth, and to
the early part of the reign of Charles II. I remember the high
peaked hats of the Commonwealth and the broad hais of
Charles I. and II.; the short hair of the men, but Cromwell’s
was not short.” At this point the time which had been
agreed on as the utmost that could be given, having the
health of the medium in regard, was reached, and although
the spirit expressed a desire to remain longer, she retired on
Mr. Luxmoore insisting on it, and the seance terminated.
It is not always, nor even often, that the spirit Katie is in
the humour to give us information of her present and past
history such as the above, and it has occurred to me that she
declines it because she has been accustomed—too much in my
opinion—to jokes, and what might be called “ chaffing ” from
the circle, and this probably is more to the taste of a spirit
who, as she has herself stated, is not by any means in a highly
spiritual sphere. But this may be mere speculation on my
part. J. M. Gr.
We have some ideas to bring forward on the problem
started by Mr. Coleman, but must defer their publi¬
cation for want of room in this issue. The letter by
Mr. Everitt, in another column, probably, has a direct
bearing on the question, since all the “ Johns ” and
“ Katies ” who manifest regularly at voice circles have
as yet been found to considerably resemble the medium
when materiahsed. “John Watt” has not yet been
seen in materialised form, but when he first began to
manifest, his voice was so much like Mrs. Everitt’s as to
cause her considerable annoyance, the necessary infer¬
ence being that his temporarily materialised vocal
organs considerably resembled her own in physical
shape. Mr. Everitt makes out a good case on behalf of
independent individuality, but he does not state whether
such evidence is given exceptionally, at rare intervals,
or whether as a general rule the thoughts, desires, and
knowledge of John Watt and Mrs. Everitt are so mixed,
up together and identical, as to be, generally speaking,
a source of perplexity to him. Through Miss Cook’s
“Katie” thoughts quite foreign to the mind of the
medium are given at rare intervals. One evening a
lady, a stranger to the medium, said “ Do you know
what I am thinking about now ? ” “ Yes,” was the
prompt reply, “ Charles.” This was right. Never¬
theless, an argument might be raised that the assumed
“ double ” had clairvoyant and thought-reading powers.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
455
Dec. 12, 1873.
MEDIUMSHIP OF A BABY.
Me. EL D. Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, of 53, Bromp-
ton-efescent, Brompton, has had further disturbances
in his house, in consequence of the mediumship of his
little boy, aged two months.
Last Friday Mr. Jencken and Mrs. Jencken (Kate
Fox) went to the great scientific soiree at the Crystal
Palace, and that same evening, about nine o’clock, their
housemaid, Elizabeth, went up stairs to the front
ds awing-room to turn down the gas burners. As she
approached the door she saw its handle turn round,
an d she cried out, “ Who is that ?” The door then
opened, and a veiled figure looked out at her. She
only saw a part of the face, because the white drapery
al out it hid the rest, and she fancied that the eyes had
an evil look. She ran down stairs and gave the alarm
to the nook and sempstress, saying that she thought
thieves were in the house.
Just after this occurred on the first floor, the nurse,
Mrs. Macarthy, who was watching the baby, in a room
near the top of the house, heard footsteps outside; the
door gently opened, and a short woman, young and
pleasant-looking, robed in white, entered, and returned
quickly, twice. At first the nurse thought that a joke
was being played upon her.; but, upon searching the
adjoining room and landing, she could not find any¬
body. She then went downstairs and joined the three
servants below, who had previously heard footsteps
going up stairs from the drawing-room to the nursery.
The cook then went for a policeman, and the other
three servants went up to the nursery, where they
heard rapping noises and voices; the latter were not
sufficiently distinct to be intelligible. They also heard
footsteps going right up to the top of the house. When
the police arrived they searched the house and found
nothing. Just as they were going away, some foot¬
steps followed them down the stairs. One of the police¬
men turned round and said that the noises must be
caused by a ghost.
Three days previously the housemaid had seen a
figure in the drawing room. It suddenly disappeared.
This form, she said, was covered with a shawl, like
that worn by Mrs. Jencken before she left the house.
Was it Mrs. Jencken’s “ double,” present there in con¬
sequence of her constant thoughts about the baby ?
The nurse says she has seen hands making passes
over the baby, and has heard raps at the head of the
child’s bedstead, and once the pillow was pressed down
by an unseen hand. On another occasion, a gold ring
was seen knocking against the iron rail at the head of
the bedstead. Last Sunday wo questioned the nurse
and housemaid on all these points. They were in a
very nervous state about the whole matter, and
evidently deeply impressed by the circumstances, since
they knew nothing about Spiritualism, until these
phenomena forced themselves upon their attention.
Mr. Jencken tells us that a few days ago, about six
o’clock in the morning, while it was yet dark, Mrs.
Jencken brought the child to him. A strong light
streamed from both the eyes of the baby, and illumi¬
nated its face, and raps said, “We are looking at you
through the eyes of the baby.” When Mr. Jencken
stated this, we called his attention to the circumstance
that a similar thing had occurred in connection with the
mediumship of Swedenborg, whose eyes shone for a
time with such lustre, as to frighten some persons who
unexpectedly entered his room. In that case also, the
spirits said that they were looking through his eyes. -
On several occasions recently, while we have been
present at seances at Mr. Jencken’s house, footsteps
have been heard outside, and the rustling of a dress
against the door. On quickly opening the door, nobody
was there.
Mr. and Mrs. Jencken leave town for Brighton next
Monday.
Me. Chaeles H. Fostee, the test medium, has passed over
the Rocky Mountains, on his way to San Francisco. He in¬
tends to visit Australia, and already the Harbinger of Light
(Melbourne) has begun to make announcements relating to his
expected work there.
Me. Peebles at Home.—Mr. J. M. Peebles reached his
home, Hammonton, New Jersey, United States, about three
weeks ago, after travelling all round the world to observe,
with his own eyes, the progressAof Spiritualism in all the
leading countries on the globe. The consequence of the exe¬
cution of this great enterprise was that he was forthwith
“ serenaded” by the Hammonton brass band, and at his first
lecture had a crowded audience, gathered together irrespective
of church or belief. The local Glee Club attended, and en¬
livened the proceedings by singing.
The Mysteey oe Edwin Ueood.—The end of this book,
purporting to have been given through an American medium
by the spirit of Charles Dickens, has been published in
America, but as the first, or English part of the work, has been
bound up with it, perhaps the book cannot be sold in England
without infringing the copyright. It all depends upon
whether the American publishers have “ pirated” the English
part of the work, or whether they have issued it with the
sanction of the real owners of the copyright portion.
Lectuee at Gowee St beet.—On Wednesday, the 3rd
instant, the subject of the weekly lecture by Mrs. Tappan, at
the Gower-street Rooms,was the “ Double,” and “ Materialised
Spirit Forms.” The lecturer, while in the trance state, said,
that under certain conditions the spirit could manifest itself
apart from the body in which it was incarcerated during earth
life, and become visible to persons at a distance, generally
with those in sympathy with it. This well-known phenomenon
of the “ double,” however, was wholly distinct from what was
known as the materialisation of spirit forms, a manifestation
which was now obtained at certain circles, and which was
well known and somewhat controlled by the ancient Persians,
who also understood how to bring about the inverse phe¬
nomenon of rendering the human body invisible by means of
the agency of departed spirits. As modern science in due
time would turn to the investigation of Spiritualism, although
now somewhat contemptuously opposed to it, the mode in
which spirits materialised themselves, by gathering the
atomic emanations from the medium and the sitters, and
building them up into a semblance of the human form, ani¬
mated by the controlling spirit itself, would be clearly
understood and be more generally practised. Mrs. Tappan
having spoken to a crowded audience the previous evening,
the lecture was somewhat short, and by desire of the spirit
through her, a few questions only were put by the chairman,
(Mr. J. C. Luxmoore) and others interested in the phenomena.
In reply to questions, it was stated that if, contrary to the di¬
rections of the spirit controlling the circle, the materialised
form were grasped or detained by any of the sitters, the
result might be death to the medium, or a severe and linger¬
ing illness ; also that such a breaking of conditions would pro¬
bably seriously affect sensitive members of the circle. It was
objected that the materialised forms resembled the mediums
more or less in most cases, and this gave rise to suspicions of
deception. Such resemblance was inevitable, especially under
adverse conditions. The likeness might exist for the first two or
three, or for many more seances, but if care were taken in* the
selection of the circle, and the same sitters only were present
each time,the likeness to the medium would gradually disappear,
and the spirit, by experience, would be so enabled to mould
the various atomic emanations, as to produce a fair re¬
semblance of what it was in earth-life. When the spirits of
children and others were materialised at seances, as was some¬
times the case, the children spirits did not themselves build
the forms, but were assisted in doing so by elder and more
intelligent spirits. The proceedings closed with the delivery
of a beautiful inspirational poem by the spirits controlling
Mrs. Tappan, on a subject suggested impromptu by the chair¬
man.
456
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
On Wednesday, last week, a meeting of the Dialectical
Society was held at 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C., to discuss
a paper against Spiritualism, read by Mr. Fox Bourne, at a
former meeting of the society. Our reporter attended for the
purpose of recording last week’s debate, but was informed by
the secretary that the Society did not permit the reporting of
its proceediugs, and that any occasional notices in the news¬
papers of its doings were drawn up surreptitiously. This rule
should be printed on the prospectus of the Society, to save
waste of time on the part of newspaper people.
Although debarred from reporting the various speeches,
Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, B.A., who made the first and chief one,
has favoured us with the following copy of his masterly
address .—
spiritualism: and its dangers.
Mr. Chairman : It has fallen to my lot to re-open our debate
on this occasion, under somewhat exceptional circumstances.
I labour under the disadvantage of having to deal only with
the masked batteries and reserves of a reputed majority,
who, if they have any serviceable artillery at all in their
arsenal, have hitherto carefully abstained from bringing ic
into action. But I will not commit the error of underrating
our antagonists, or credit them with the possession of no
other weapons than invective, but rather attribute their ap¬
parent weakness to some deep laid stratagem. We belong
indeed to a happy family, which, notwithstanding the seeming
discordancy of its constituent elements, claims to listen to
every side of every question, however delicate and dangerous,
with absolute equanimity, and so bears a striking resemblance
to one of those harmonious communities which perambulate
the streets in wicker cages. But the customary amenities of
dialecticians will hardly account for the voluntary concession
of the monopoly of logic and facts to the one side, and the
monopoly of reckless assertion and denial to the .other, in
dealing with a burning question which has been, and still is
potentially, a very volcano of polemics. Nor will the
courtesies of debate explain the anomaly that the able and
eloquent man of letters who, as champion of the materialistic
school, led the attack on the position of the Spiritualists,
should have so belied the expectations of his followers as to
weaken his thesis by admissions, and support it by premises
and arguments all pointing to a conclusion exactly the opposite
of the one he was expected to vindicate 1
And I think I am not mistaken in assuming that all whp
read Mr. Fox Bourne’s]thesis—“ Spiritualism, the nero Super¬
stition ”—must have anticipated the most powerful attack yet
made on a popular delusion, and the most cogent proof that
Spiritualism is a most deplorable and baseless superstition.
I think all who listened to the admirable and candid paper
which he read us, must have come to the conclusion that no
more powerful defence of Spiritualism has yet been produced
by an outsider. I do but agree with subsequent speakers on
both sides, in the conviction that Mr. Fox Bourne admitted
with the utmost candour almost all the premises on which
Spiritualists build their conclusions. He evidently found
himself unable to dispute their facts or their phenomena, and
after he had himself in reply to Mr. Jones’s question taken
the sting out of the epithet interpolated in his thesis, the only
barbed arrow left in his quiver was the allegation that
Spiritualists are playing with edged tools, and putting them
into hands in which they may prove dangerous. Spiritualists,
he argued, have much to answer for, since though the creed
taught by the higher spirits through the higher mediums is
so far superior to the corrupt Christianity now-a-days taught
as the religion of Christ, that if he were himself a Christian
he could not choose but embrace it, the lessons learnt from
minor spirits and the pranks played through minor mediums
are so objectionable, that they run the risk of propagating
more evil than good 1 If this were a sound argument it
would militate equally against the introduction of every new
creed ever introduced among men, for no creed, hovv’ever
pure at the fountain head, has ever long maintained the
pristine purity of its rushing streams, and their flood waters
uncorrupted by ecclesiastical contaminations, and the para¬
sitic growths of the.vested interests of priestcraft continually
tending to choke the primitive channels. His objection would
militate equally against the introduction of any and every
useful novelty into this planet, and more especially the best
and most useful, since it is well understood by philosophers
that the perversion of the best is invariably the worst, while
the reverse holds equally good, that the most powerful agent
for mischief, when brought under the control of man, becomes
Dec. 12, 1873*
the most potent agent of good. The lightning which shivers
the oak, and lays low the steeple, and scorches the life out of
the human body in the twinkling of an[eye, is now our swiftest
courier and our most efficient physician, and evidently waiting
to render us many services which it has not yet entered into
our imaginations to conceive.
The nitro-glycerine, which is ready to lay a whole town in
ruins, is equally ready tp remove mountains and cliffs which
bar the progress of the engines of civilization. The most
subtle and swiftly fatal poison is the most potent handmaid of
the healing art. It is not for man, who claims to lord it over
creation, to stand aghast at powers not yet subordinated to his
control, or coward-like to quail at the possibilities of the un¬
known. If knowledge be power, ignorance is incapacity. If
truth be omnipotence, fiction is impotence. If we are the
votaries of truth, all that it behoves us to enquire first is “ are
these things facts or fictions ?” and if they be facts, or if there
be any element of truth in them, what is the source of it ?
and subsequently what is the rationale of it ? what is the out.
come of it ?
Had Franklin stopped to question the ultimate issues of his
investigations and their “ cui bono,” we might have waited
for another generation for our telegraphs. Had Faraday
cared to enquire the commercial value of the numerous scien¬
tific novelties on which his fame rests, many an inhabitant of
our metropolitan palaces would still be grovelling in a
suburban dust-trap. If we were one and all to abjure every¬
thing which, polluted by fraud, was contaminated by adulter¬
ation, we should have to abjure henceforth not only the juice
of the grape, and the popular infusions of the breakfast table,
but the very staff of life itself ; and but for recent legislation,
it would be hard for an uncompromising purist to exist in
this land of commercial morality, this city of polluted car¬
boniferous atmosphere 1
SCIENCE AND SUPERSTITION.
But although Mr. Fox Bourne fell into the untenable
fallacy of which I would fain leave the sole monopoly to the
idolaters of expediency, I am free to confess my admiration
for the candour and courage with which he dared to investi¬
gate, and admit facts which on investigation he found to be
so opposed to his own materialistic theories and anticipations.
I accept his new definition of “ superstition’’ as an “amende
honorable ” to the spiritual cause. It is, as we all know, very
wrong to look a gift horse in the mouth and enquire [into its
cost to the donor, but in this case I cannot accept it as an
equivalent to its cost, or an adequate return for an antecedent
imputation—ap. antidote to be efficient should circulate as
freely as the poison it is intended to counteract, and of
the thousands who will, I hope, ere long read Mr. Fox
Bourne’s essay, I fear but few will hear, and fewer still
accept, his new definition of an ancient term of reproach.
I cannot, therefore, refrain from entering a public protest
against the application of the term superstition to our new
science. I cannot accept it at any price, even though it come
clothed in a brand new court dress. I submit that the term
superstition should be defined as an illogical belief in fictions,
or an illogical disbelief in facts; in either case founded on
perverse ignorance or irrational prejudice, and not on honest
and industrious investigation. I deny that the epithet is
justly applicable to the belief in ancient or modern Spiri¬
tualism, or that, strictly speaking, the term implies the
existence of any substratum of truth. That as a matter
of fact there is a substratum of truth in almost all reputed
popular superstitions, and what the notorious Dr. Car¬
penter calls epidemic delusions, is I believe notorious to
almost every one but Dr. Carpenter himself, who has taken
the trouble to look into the recorded evidence of facts in con¬
nection with them, but that matter of fact I believe to have
been entirely lost sight of by the coiners and dispensers of the
term. I believe that the term is far more justly applicable
to the reputed men of science, who have resolutely closed their
eyes to spiritual facts and ignored psychical phenomena.
Those whose blind prejudices lead them to neglect facts out¬
side the circle of their own limited personal experience, and
ignore the depths of their own ignorance, seem to me to be
the truly superstitious. The attitude of the scientific world
towards the facts and phenomena of modern Spiritualism, and
the myriads of credible witnesses who testify to them, involves,
as I contend, the worst form of superstition. There is very
little to choose between the folly of disbelieving a fact, and
the folly of believing a fiction; and herein I think myself in
accord with Mr. Fox Bourne. I have said that the arguments
we have listened to have been all on one side—iri favour of
Dec. 12, 1873.
THE SPlHlTtTALlST.
457
the truth of modern Spiritualism—I do not forget that we
listened to several speeches on the opposite side, but I looted
in vain for an argument in any one of them.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHURCHES.
In fact, so far as I know, invective is the invariable argu¬
ment brought against Spiritualism. The Roman Catholic
says, “ It is outside the Church, therefore it is satanic.” The
Protestant, ignoring the fact that his orthodox forefathers
believed it, and that it is recognised by the canons and tra¬
ditions of his Church, either ignorantly affirms that “ all com¬
munications with the invisible world ceased at the time of the
Christian era when an all-sufficient revelation was made to
man!” or, ignoring the orthodox belief in guardian angels and
ministering spirits, agrees with his Roman Catholic cousin
that the devil is the only spirit authorised to communicate
with the laity. The heterodox believer in the immortality of the
soul has a sort of vague belief that the soul will sleep a lethargic
sleep till the day of judgment, or be consigned to some peniten¬
tiary to await its final doom, or perhaps if he be of more liberal
tendencies, that it will even be admitted at once to some
mythical heaven, where it will be effectually cut off from all
its terrestrial antecedents, and find itself at once a celestial,
glorified being, very nearly omniscient, while the 'materialist
simply believes in annihilation. But the Materialist is, after
all, in a very small numerical minority, and he is, for the
most part, far more open to conviction than most of the
bigoted victims of priestcraft, who claim for their co-religion¬
ists a monopoly of the blessings of a future life, and make
faith in their irrational fictions the prime condition of the
prizes of eternity. To one and all modern Spiritualists, say,
“ Come and investigate for yourselves; we do not ask you to
believe, but we ask you to be at the same pains to enquire into
the facts and phenomena of a science dealing with the most
occult laws of human nature, that you would bestow on any of
the recognised sciences of the schools.” Is it not a symptom
of sheer folly to say, “ I have not seen it, therefore no one
else has seen it. I have been tricked by a medium, therefore
all mediums are tricksters.” It is possible to make a false
diamond, therefore the Kohinoor is a piece of glass—the
common fallacy so familiar to ladies of arguing from a par¬
ticular to universal; the favourite fallacy of our opponents,
the rotten reed which will one day pierce their hand.
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITY.
Dr. Drysdale told us that Spiritualism increased insanity.
I defy Dr. Drysdale to prove what I believe to be the very
opposite of the fact. I have every reason to believe that many
victims of prejudice and ignorance are immured in asylums,
who are far more sane than those who shut them up; if a
belief in truth be any test of sanity, I believe that Spiritualism
will do more to open the doors of the asylums to the victims
of medical mismanagement, than would seem credible to any
one who had not studied psychology by the light of these
despised phenomena. Dr. Drysdale told ns that Spiritualism
damages the mental fabric of the young, and so would any
other “ ism ” unduly forced upon a precocious intellect, so as
to overtax the powers of the immature brain; but he would
utterly fail if he endeavoured to prove that Spiritualism was
one whit more prejudicial than any other science. He ventures
to assert that it is evidence of the depraved condition of the
human intellect—another instance of simple invective, lacking
the essential element of truth. He remembered an instance
of a young lad who became hysterical after being mesmerised,
which is exceedingly possible ; but if he had died after being
mesmerised, his case would have been no stronger an argu¬
ment against mesmerism than the death of one of Dr. Drys-
dale’s patients, after imbibing one of his draughts, would be
against the subsequent exhibition of any of his orthodox
drugs. He could not understand how any one could believe
in table-turning after Professor Pepper had turned tables !
But I expect Dr. Drysdale and his fellows will very soon find
the tables turned upon them, and be forced to admit that the
serpent of ^Esculapius, with all his wisdom, must condescend
to take lessons in psychic lore from the doves of Spiritualism.
The facts being admitted—and they are abundantly proved—
his reckless assertions vanish into thin air.
SPIRITUALISM AND WITCHCRAFT.
Mr. Seyler compared Spiritualism to witchcraft, of which he
seemed to have a thoroughly superficial knowledge. He is
probably ignorant that the records of the trials for witchcraft
contain evidence of what we now know to be simply spiritual
phenomena, thoroughly sifted by the keenest scrutiny of our
courts, acknowledged by the highest authorities to have been
sufficient to establish any other mundane facts, and that the
weight of this evidence was simply overruled by the power of
prejudice and religious bigotry. There may have been
witches who abused their powers of communicating with the
invisible world, and conspired with malignant spirits to work
evil to their neighbours, and who may have been as justly
punished as any other conspirators, but it is abundantly
proved that myriads of innocent victims were dragged to the
stake simply and solely because they had inherited the faculty
of communicating with the invisible world. As the Hebrews
of old persecuted the prophets, so the mediaeval Christians
and their priests who claimed to be successors of the Apostles,
delighted to torture with faggot and flame the rightful heir
of those apostolical gifts of which they had themselves in¬
herited the shadow and lost the substance.
FACTS VERSUS OPINIONS.
But Mr. Seyler, like Mr. Jeffrey, went on to complain that
such of the teachings of modern Spiritualism as had come
under their observation, did not correspond to their ideas of
what the invisible world should be, nor to the orthodox
notions of what it is. Very possibly not, but that is a some¬
what feeble argument as against the fact, if it happens that
the conditions of existence in the invisible world correspond
more nearly to the experience of its inhabitants- who put
themselves into communication with us, than to the imagina>-
tion of those incarned spirits who carefully eschew any com¬
munication with them, and even- disbelieve in their existence.
There is one thing which seems to be invariably overlooked by
the opponents of Spiritualism, whether they belong to the
ranks of orthodoxy, science, or materialism. It is this. Facts
are altogether independent of our opinions concerning them.
Belief in a fiction will no more erect it into a fact than dis¬
belief in a fact will convert it into a fiction. If there be a
spiritual world inhabited by intelligences invisible to us,
though dwelling in our midst, and able to influence us mes-
merically, and otherwise, to use a convenient term, neither
ignorance of their existence nor disbelief in their presence or
their power affects the facts. Those of us who, like myself,
have undeniable personal experience of the presence of these
invisible beings about us, and of their ability to read our
thoughts, criticise our actions, and communicate to us their
own impressions and their own views, can afford to commise¬
rate those who plume themselves on their ignorance, though
equally subject to the influence of these same invisibles—in
many analogous modes of which they have no conception.
Those who, like Mr. Fox Bourne, dilate on the danger of in¬
troducing the lower orders to dangerous influences, forget
that those dangerous influences are about them, whether they
know it or not.
GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS.
Mr. Bourne probably does not believe in his Satanic
Majesty—neither do I; I believe that he is but the mythical
impersonification of these myriads of unhappy spirits who
are, and have ever been, the real tempters of mankind, and
who are striving to gratify their unsatisfied carnal desires
through the organisations of the wretches they can influence
unknown to themselves, many of whom would be horror-stricken
if they knew to what influences they are yielding when they
seem only to be gratifying their own selfish inclinations and
passions. There was a good old-fashioned belief in guardian
angels which is not quite extinct even among non-Spiritualists
in our own time, and of the truth of which modern Spiri¬
tualism is yielding incontrovertible evidence. It was be¬
lieved that these good spirits protected us against the assaults
and evil influences of our tempters, and that their mission was
to speak to us in the still small voice of conscience, which
their promptings kept alive, unless they were driven away
from us in despair by our persistent rejection of their counsels.
Is it a great misfortune, a terrible calamity, that this so-
called superstition should prove to be simple fact, and that a
less occult and more open communication with our invisible
friends should be established? Assuredly not. Disinterested
friendship is a rare and valuable commodity, so who would
reject our ever-present invisible friends ?
PSYCHIC FORCE AND UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
“ But,” say the opponents of our new revelation, “ this is all
a fairy tale; your facts, in so far as they are facts, are ex¬
plicable on the hypothesis of unconscious cerebration and
psychic force.” We challenge them to show that a tithe of
the facts admitted are explicable on any such hypothesis, or
that there is any hypothesis but the one put forward by
Spiritualists, not as an hypothesis, but as a known fact, that
will account for them. Dr. Sexton well said that, granting
458
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1873.
the necessity of admitting the action of an independent in¬
telligence to account for the acknowledged physical phenomena
produced under test conditions without physical contact, it is
but rational to take the account which that intelligence gives
of itself, especially when that account is corroborated in
myriads of cases independently of each other, in all parts of
the world, as the true explanation, rather than any hypothesis
framed by incredulous outsiders who stand aloof from in¬
vestigation.
Such circumstantial evidence is freely accepted and acted
on in our Courts. I should like our opponents to point out
the flaw or the fallacy involved in this argument, if they can
find one.
It has been suggested to me that, notwithstanding all Mr.
Fox Bourne’s concessions, he is not yet convinced of the
existence of invisible beings—intelligences—and still less that
these invisibles are the souls of our departed friends. If he
be not already convinced, he has at least utterly failed to
point out any other rational explanation of the facts and
phenomena which he admitted. Nor has Serjeant Cox, nor
any other of the psychic force school, ever succeeded in
framing any theory or hypothesis which would cover the
facts; and when, in addition to the admitted seance pheno¬
mena, we turn our attention to incorruptible testimony of
the camera, its spirit photographs, and the abundantly cor¬
roborated testimony of countless clairvoyants and seers, who
testify that they have actually seen and conversed with their
departed friends in spirit life, it is only by a resolute shutting
of eyes and ears, and rejection of unpalatable testimony,
simply because it is unpalatable, that we can escape the con¬
viction of the truth of the revelations of modern Spiritualism
which have come so opportunely to dispel the baseless fabric
of modern materialism, erected on the rotten foundations of
ecclesiastical rubbish and traditional dogmatism. If, how¬
ever, the materialistic school challenge us to explain the
phenomena—the action of spirit on matter—we say that the
rudiments of our spiritual science are open to investigation
already. We say that the key which will unlock many of its
mysteries is to be found in the science of mesmerism, which
is still so scouted by our Royal Society, and ignored or neg¬
lected by the medical profession. If “ the proper study of
mankind” be man, I would like to know what is the worth
of that study of humanity which neglects all consideration of
the noblest element of human nature, the inspiring soul—the
indwelling spirit—the energising will—the mainspring of life.
Surely the study of incarned mind might fairly be expected
to afford a clue to the principles of action of the disembodied
mind ? If man possesses a soul, the mind surely belongs to
it rather than to the body. If the soul be immortal, it must
survive the body, and must be able to act independently of
it when’its temporary envelope has crumbled away, or is ex¬
changed for a more permanent envelope.
But I should find it hard to say all that I would fain say on
this subject within the prescribed limits of a monograph
suited to the exigencies of our Society. I cannot hope to do
more than glance at it superficially this evening. I say that
the action of psychic force, if you prefer that term to vital
magnetism and animal electricity, or nerve force, or whatever
subtle elements, simple or compound, have been known by
those names, are subordinated to the control of the human
will, whose agents they are in all the physical and meta¬
physical operations of humanity, and that the science of psy¬
chology, which must embrace the investigation of all these
subtle elements, will ere, long clear up many of the difficulties
which to our materialistic men of science seem at present
insurmountable.
THE USE OF THE DIVINING BOD.
I have said that I am able to speak from personal experi¬
ence, foe. I have recently become a medium myself, and my
experience has been in many ways remarkable. Before I had
any idea that I possessed any mediumistic faculties, I was
surprised to find myself possessed of the power of successfully
using the divining rod, which is really a very delicate magneto¬
scope for the discovery of mineral lodes., I have not only
mapped out the lodes over a large manor by its agency, where
they were previously unknown, but I have had its indications
confirmed in every particular by the officers of the geological
department of Her Majesty’s Ordnance Survey employed in
Cumberland. I have also experimentally ascertained that
concentrated currents of some unknown force or forces, pass
through the rod, and being concentrated by it can be rendered
perceptible to persons whose perceptions are not sufficiently
sensitive and delicate to perceive them without its inter¬
vention.
My experiments have entirely confirmed, while they have
been greatly facilitated by, the previous investigations of
the French savant, Tristam, with a divining rod, and those
of Rutter and Dr. Leger with the magnetoscope, and I have
every reason to believe that if they are diligently carried out
they will lead to some important discoveries in the science oe
the nervous forces ; but I have in vain endeavoured to induce
Professors Huxley and Ferrier, and other leaders of science,
to take my preliminary facts into their learned consideration.
I have induced clairvoyance and trance in sensitive subjects,
by the use of-this same hazel rod, with great success. But as
the learned world do not believe in clairvoyance, they see
nothing to investigate.
THE SENSATIONS OF A MEDIUM.
I have learnt by practical experience the difficulty of in¬
ducing prejudiced men to listen even to one’s premisses—let
alone one’s conclusions. The extent of that difficulty may be
estimated from the consideration of the absolute impossibility
of conveying to the apprehension of a man, born without any
one of our five senses, the exact sensation experienced by those
who possess them. The gifts of mediumship seem to me to
involve the development of a latent sixth sense ; indeed, I
am inclinecC to think that they may, perhaps, involve the
development of several latent senses, not yet acknowledged
by science—latent senses or spiritual faculties, which are
probably inherent in all spiritual natures, prematurely de¬
veloped in a few only, but destined to be developed in all
when they emerge from the prison-house of the body, just as
are the wings of the butterfly or the limbs of the frog, which
are latent in the caterpillar and the tadpole. I know that I
should excite the derision of the sceptics if I were to say that
I have conversed with spirits after a fashion which was as¬
serted to be that in which spirits communicate with each other
—by an “ inner voice” which I could only compare to the
sensation which would be caused by a telegraphic apparatus
being hooked on to one of the nerve ganglia—a distinctly
audible click accompanying every syllable of the communica¬
tion, which one could not say one heard, but of which one
was made conscious by a new sense, and which was clearly
distinguishable from thoughts originated in one’s own mind,
but it is nevertheless a fact, which I know to be as true as that
I am now in full possession of my five normal senses, and in
no way qualified for Hanwell.
This enabled me, for the first time in my life, to understand
the rational inspirational speaking, as writing mediumship,
which has also been given to me, enables me to understand
inspirational writing. But this latter gift involves an ex¬
penditure of vitality and nervous force, which is excessively
debilitating if too long continued ; and I am now paying the
penalty of excess by enforced abstinence from the exercise of
the new faculty. If it be only the unconscious action of one’s
own mind, how will our scientific infallibles account for this
anomalous result of automatic writing? But I have already
trespassed, too long on your patience. Suffice it to say, that
I can affirm, with the certainty of absolute knowledge, that
modern Spiritualism is true,—that it affords the most satis¬
factory evidence that the soul of man survives the death of
the body, retains its individuality, and its personal identity,
and its fallibility, and the power of communicating, under
certain delicate conditions, with those with whom it is still in
sympathy in earth life,1
SPIKITUALISM AND PEIESTCBAET..
I know that we have spirit friends who are permitted to
disabuse our minds of many fallacies which a corrupt priest¬
craft has taught us to reverence under the guise of religion,
and who, although they do not claim the infallibility which
belongs to omniscience alone, and will never ask us to forego
the exercise of our God-given reason, have progressed so far
beyond us in knowledge of truth, that we may be well con¬
tent to learn of them such lessons as commend themselves
to the approbation of our judicial faculties.
We have learnt to recognise the fact that such highly-
progressed spirits as these, were they who, in days of yore,
more or less perfectly revealed those higher truths which un¬
derlie the countless corrupt creeds of the world. Truths
which, in these latter days, seem destined^ to be poured out
upon our planet with the profusion that was foreshadowed by
Joel of old.
One word more and I have done ; one word of reply to the
query suggested by Mr. Fox Bourne. What is the outcome
of modern Spiritualism, considered as a religious question?
I answer—Spiritualism claims to be a new revelation,
iconoclastic of all superstition, and bids fair to extinguish all
Deo. 12, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
459
the fungoid growths that have obscured the pristine lights of
all former revelations, and claims to supplement and illumine
them by its own electric rays.
It claims to throw a stream of light on the rationale of
inspiration and revelation, and promises to put the finishing
touches to the work of Oolenso and his fellow-critics, and
finally demolish the already decaying and very mischievous
and wide-spread delusion that our orthodox Bible is the
infallible Word of God—a delusion which I believe to be one
of the greatest obstacles to the illumination of the world and
the progress of humanity; but at the same time it claims to
rehabilitate the truths which were in danger of being buried
under the ruins of the rotten structures of priestcraft.
It abolishes for ever the deified devil of the Hebrews, the
bloodthirsty god of vengeance, dealing in damnation and hell-
fire, the creator of human fuel for eternal flames.
It rehabilitates the God of Love as the loving Father of all
spirits, whether in the flesh or out of the flesh—the Supreme
Lord of the Hierarchy of Heaven, and re-enthrones Him as
sole Sovereign of the visible and invisible universe.
It dethrones His tnythical rival, the omnipotent devil, and
promises to shed a new light on the mystery of evil and the
ultimate triumph of good.
It abolishes the supernatural, and extends the realm of
nature and the reign of law to the invisible world.
It teaches us that grand psychological truths underlie the
rituals and'ceremonials of all the religions of the world.
It discloses the rationale oi their existence, as a contrivance
to enlist the emotions in the service of the will, and promises
to remove this most prolific apple of discord from the arena of
controversy, by revealing the common object, the common
origin and uniform efficacy of all of them.
It abolishes at one fell swoop the theology of the schoolmen
and the dogmas of the schools, and the mischievous absurdi¬
ties of such formularies as the Athanasian Creed.
It dethrones the blind idol of theological faith, and sweeps
away the marvellous delusion of the orthodox, that belief in
fictions is essential to salvation. It sets np a sound and
rational standard of religion when it teaches us that he is at
once the most truly religious mah, and the most faithful
servant of the God of love, who best fulfils the law of love to
his fellow-man, and yields the most perfect obedience to the
laws of life and health. It even teaches that he who lives in
the most perfect harmony with the physiological laws of his
being, builds up for himself the most perfect spiritual body
for the next phase of his existence. It utterly dissipates the
delusions of a dead level of equality prevailing in the world of
spirits, overthrows the orthodox paradise of drones, and over¬
turns the eternity of idleness and psalm-singing, and holds
out the hope of a future of never ending progress devoted to
useful work, and the expansion of the highest faculties of the
mind ; and finally, it extinguishes the great bugbear of the
human race, and more especially of the Christian world,'the
irrational fear of death, and fulfils the prophecy of the ancient
seer that death shall be swallowed up in victory.
What wonder then, that it excites the uncompromising
hostility of the myriads whose fortunes seem bound up with
the vested interests of error.
What wonder that it is denounced by Bibliolaters and the
devotees of the devil, scouted by priests, and scoffed at by
men of science, all as interested in the preservation of their
private preserves and ancient monopolies, as were the initiated
of the sacred mysteries of old.
What wonder that it excites the wrath of the orthodox
majority, who see themselves threatened with the confiscation
of their exclusive tickets to the aristocratic stalls and cozy
opera boxes of. heaven, wherein they look forward to enjoy
in some grand opera of “ Fra Diavolo,” an exquisite panorama
of Pandemonium, peopled with grinning fiends and the
heretical souls of their misguided friends. Truly modern
Spiritualism need fear no comparison with the most noble
creed that ever claimed to be heaven descended, or ever willed
from the fertile philosophic brain, and may well think to sow
the seeds of a universal religion of reason and truth, and
re-establish a perfect harmony between science and re¬
ligion.
Mr. J. J. Morse has begun to volunteer English news
to the Banner of Light.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) for October, has
republished one of Dr. Gully’s articles from the columns of
the Spiritualist for the benefit of Australian readers.
TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP AND PHYSICS.
In illustration of the circumstance that so far as we1
know, no new revelation in physics has yet been made
to the world through the agency oT trance or clairvoy¬
ance, attention was called in these pages to various
utterances relating to physical science made by Mr. A.
J. Davis, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, and Mr. J. J. Morse.
The immediate object of these criticisms was to show
scientific men, who were invited to attend the public
lectures of one of these mediums, that Spiritualists did
not necessarily believe all the statements of trance
mediums, made in opposition to known facts, to be re¬
velations from heaven. The errors of the revelations of
three good mediums were pointed out together, because
it would have, perhaps, been considered unfair and
unkind to select one only.
A spirit, who professed to be Mr. Mapes, controlled
Mrs. Tappan at a public meeting in Gower-street, and
reviewed our critical remarks. He, she, or it said
He said also in this critique—if I may dignify it by that
name—“ Undoubtedly the nebulous theory of the formation
of the planets is true.”
No statement of the kind was published in these pages,
and the above remark is a misquotation, in which the
word “ undoubtedly ” is substituted for ^ apparently.”
Mr. Mapes then proceeds to demolish the assertion which
was never made.
He further said :—
It seems to be the preconceived notion of this member of
the genus referred to, that spirits should not pretend to know
anything about physics,-and should confine themselves to
spiritual and ethical subjects.
Nothing of the kind was said or thought. Any re¬
liable new revelations, on any subject, from any source,
would be welcomed by all lovers of truth. He then
proceeded to overthrow the substance of his mis¬
quotation.
Mr. Mapes likewise said :—
Again, I did not say that the inhabitants of Venus are erect¬
ing high towers for astronomical observations.
Nor was any statement to that effect made in these
pages. This is another misquotation. Our remarks
on this head were founded on the principle of “ rever¬
sibility ” in optics,' and evidently Mr. Mapes does not
understand their bearing upon the subject.
Mr. Mapes further said :—
It has been stated that spirits should not interfere with, and
indeed should not attempt to express themselves upon scienti¬
fic subjects, because they always make palpable blunders.
No such statement has been made in these pages.
It is a misquotation, and there were others which
we have not sufficient space to point out now.
Mr. Mapes also remarked:—
This editor has said that other clairvoyants—for instance,
Andrew Jackson Davis—has said that the inhabitants of
Venus are far lower than those of the earth.
This is a suppressio veri. We stated that Davis
affirmed the highest inhabitants of Yenus to be about
on the same spiritual and ruental level as those of the
earth. Had Mr. Mapes quoted the whole instead of
part of our remarks, the whole foundation for his anta¬
gonistic public utterances on this head would have been
swept away.
About two columns of the last number of the Medium
are filled with Mr. Mapes’ arguments, directed, for the
most, to the overthrowing of his own misquotations,
without in any way shaking the truth or justice of the
criticisms made in this journal. Of course it is
460
THE SPIRITUALIST.
UeO. 12, 1873,
no use entering into a controversy where the mis¬
quoting system is introduced ; and if Professor
Mapes is the real communicant, he is a man who
could have never gained any standing in the
English scientific world. He would have been black¬
balled unanimously, for whatever faults may cha¬
racterise the English scientific world, it would never
recognise in its higher ranks a man who could be guilty
of misquotations.
If one were disposed to find fault for the sake of
so doing, there are several errors in physics which
might be pointed out in Mrs. Tappan’s more recent
utterances, but we have no inclination for such work,
now or in the future, and would rather dwell on the
extreme beauty of her poems and of her teachings,
Nevertheless, there is one error which she herself would
desire us to note, since, were it not corrected, it might
involve enquiring Spiritualists in much waste, both of
money and time. She said, while in the trance:—
If you were to have a room constructed so that none but
blue and violet rays could be admitted, you would not be
obliged to have dark seances. ... We should judge that a
room' with a petroleum lamp shining through violet-coloured
glass would answer very well.
We tried weak and strong blue and violet light over
and over again, several years ago, at the seances of Mrs.
Mary Marshall, 13, Bristol-gardens, Paddington, in the
presence of many witnesses. Not only were violet
glasses tried, but, to get a very pure blue, the light in
one instance, was first passed through a solution of
ammonio-sulphate of copper, and afterwards through a
solution of alum. More recently, at Messrs. Herne and
Williams’ seances, we tried a flashing light, rich in blue
rays, made by discharging sparks between magnesium
terminals connected with an induction coil. Taken as
a whole, failure was the result, the general tendency
of the experiments being to indicate that yellow and red
rays would probably answer better than blue or violet.
Mr. Crookes, by independent experiments, came also to
the conclusion that yellow light was good to some ex¬
tent for physical manifestations ; consequently, at one
of the seances at his house, at which the Times cor¬
respondent was present, the room was illuminated
with a spirit-lamp flame. Good spiritual conditions
induce good physical manifestations with far more
power than changes in the kind of light; let the
medium be thoroughly comfortable and happy, and
many things take place in broad daylight which usually
occur only in the dark.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
The usual fortnightly meeting of this society was held in
the Craigie Hall, on Wednesday, last week. Mr. Alexander
Keith, vice-president, opened a debate to prove that the so-
called spiritual manifestations were produced by spiritual
beings, and that the spiritual theory of the origin of the
phenomena was the true one. He said that his first seance
was with Mr. D. I). Home, at Mr. Nisbet’s, in Glasgow, four
years ago. At this seance all the manifestations took place in
the light. After the usual phenomena, a spirit came who pur¬
ported to be his son Haydon, and this spirit answered his
questions by raps in a way that astonished him; then Mr.
Home went into trance, and the spirit spoke through him,
giving a number of tests. Some of these were regarding
matters that not even his son John, who was present, knew.
The accordion was also played, and they could see the instru¬
ment moving of itself, and playing the tunes they asked. He
then described other seances at which he had seen and heard
spirits, and even shaken hands with them. He had had a
seance with Mr. Duguid, in Glasgow, last week, along with
his friend, Mr. Templeton, from Kingston-on-Thames, who is
well known in the musical world. At this seance his son and
a Mr. Stephens not only spoke, but joined in the singing, and
Mr. Templeton could easily recognise Sinclair’s voice from its
peculiar notes. He then read a number of communications
he had received from his son and others, which be held proved
that our departed friends were still living, and could com¬
municate with us. An interesting discussion followed, in
which a majority of the members endorsed the spiritual theory,
although most of them had a poor opinion of the intellect of
the spirits that generally manifest themselves.
Miss J. Yaughan, 11, Molenda-crescent, was elected an
ordinary member, and the society adjourned till the third
Wednesday in January.
DEPARTED!
The following lines were published some time since in the Unitarian
Herald, and were quoted by the Rev. J. Page Hopps, in one of his
sermons:—
“She is deadthey said to him. “ Come away;
Kiss her and leave her, thy love is clay!’’
They smoothed her tresses of dark brown hair;
On her forehead of stone they laid it fair;
Over her eyes, which gazed too much,
They drew the lids with a gentle touch;
With a tender touch they closed up well
The sweet thin lips that had secrets to tell;
About her brows and beautiful face
They tied her veil and her marriage lace,
And drew on her white feet her white silk shoes ;
Which were the whitest no eye could choose 1
And over her bosom they crossed her hands—
“ Come away," they said, “ God understands!"
And there was silence, and nothing there
But silence and scents of eglantere,
And jessamine, and roses, and rosemary;
And they said, “ As a lady should lie lies she."
And they held their breath as they left the room
With a shuddering glance at its stillness and gloom.
But he who loved her too well to dread
The sweet, the stately, the beautiful dead,
He lit his lamp and took the key
. And turned it. Alone again—he and she.
He and she; but she would not speak,
Though he kissed, in the old place, the quiet cheek.
He and she; yet she would not smile,
Though he called her the name she loved erewhile.
He and she; still she did not move
To any one passionate whisper of love.
Then he said, “Cold lips, and breast without breath
Is there no voice? no language of death?
“ Dumb to the ear and still to the sense,
But to heart and to soul distinct, intense?
“ See now; I will listen with soul, not ear;
What was the secret of dying, dear ?
“ Was it the infinite wonder of all
That you ever could let life’s flower fall ?
“ Or was it a greater marvel to feel
The perfect calm o’er the agony steal ?
“ Was the miracle greater to find how deep
Beyond all dreams sank downward that sleep ?
“ Did life roll back its record, dear,
And show, as they say it does, past things clear ?
“ And was it the innermost heart of ihe bliss
To find out so what a wisdom love is ?
“ 0, perfect dead! 0, dead most dear,
' I hold the breath of my soul to hear!
“ There must be pleasure in dying, sweet,
To make you so placid from head to feet;
“ I would tell you, darling, if I were dead.
And ’twere your hot tears upon my brow shed.
“ I would say, though the angel of death had laid
His sword on my lips to keep it unsaid.
“ You should not ask vainly, with streaming eyes,
Which of all death’s was the chiefest surprise;
“ The very strangest and suddenest thing
Of all the surprises that dying must bring.”
Ah, foolish world! Oh, most kind dead ?
Though he told me, who will believe it was said ?
Who will believe what he heard her say,
With the sweet soft voice in the dear old way.
“ The utmost wonder is this;—I hear,
And see you, and love you, and kiss you, dear
“ And am your angel who was your bride,
And know, that though dead, I have never died!"
Excellent phonographic copies of the address to judge
Edmunds, are on sale at Messrs. Negretti and Zambras at the
Crystal Palace.
Deo. 12, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
461
GROSS OUTRAGE AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
Last Tuesday night there was a seznce at Mr. Cook’s.
Among the guests present were the Earl of Caithness
(who is not a Spiritualist), Lady Caithness, and the
Count El Conde de Medina Pomar, of 46, Portland-
place, W.; Mr. Charles Blackburn, Parkfield, Dids-
bury, near ManchesterMr. Henry M. Dunphy,
barrister-at-law, Essex-court, Temple, E.C.; Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore, J.P., 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W.;
Mrs. A. Corner, and Mr. E. E. Corner (ship’s first
officer), St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney; Mr. H. Biel-
feld, 208, Euston-road; Mr. G. R. Tapp, 18, Queen
Margaret’s-grove, Islington; Mr. W. H. Harrison,
Wilmin-villa, Herne-hill; Mr. and Mrs. Cook and
children ; and the person who committed the outrage
described in the following document :
This evening at Miss Cook’s seaneet during the appearance
of what purported to be the spirit “ Katie,” a man, named
Yolckman, rose up, grasped her round the waist with both
arms, and tried to throw her down with his feet. Mr. Tapp
and Mr. Corner seized the man who thus broke the conditions
which we were all admitted on the understanding we would keep.
“Katie” instantly extricated herself from his clutches, and
aided by Mr. Luxmoore, was in a moment back in the cabinet.
After a delay of about five minutes, during which Katie gave
earnest instructions to the sitters, the cabinet was opened and
Miss Cook found in black dress, and boots, with the tape
tightly round her waist as at the beginning of the seance, the
knot sealed as at first with the signet-ring of the Earl of
Caithness, and sewn underneath the seal with thread, as it
had been sewn before the seance by Mr. Luxmoore. The tape
and seal are now in the possession of the Earl of Caithness.
Before the seance the cabinet was searched by the strangers
present, and after it by Lady Caithness and others. Lady
Caithness and Mrs. Corner, who never lost sight of Miss Cook
from the moment the cabinet was opened, subsequently led
the medium to her bedroom after she had recovered from the
severe shock, and searched her. She had her boots and black
dress on, and no white drapery, and nothing but her ordinary
dress. There was nothing in her pockets. Her under gar¬
ments were coloured wadded winter clothing. We all regard
the act of the man as a gross outrage, and think the results
redound greatly to the credit of Miss Cook.
Caithness. J. C. Luxmoore.
Marie Caithness. Henry M. Dunphy.
El Conde de Medina Pomar. Henry Bielfeld.
Charles Blackbuien. Edward Elgie Corner.
Amelia Corner. George Robert Tapp.
William H. Harrison.
Dec. 9th, 1873.
After Katie ceased to speak, moans were heard coming
from her medium, who soon afterwards began to shriek,
and to cry out about “ burning” pains. Mrs. Cook
then began to faint and the children to cry, the little
brother of the medium expressing the fear that “ Florrie
would die.” The cabinet was then opened, and, after
the tapes had been examined and removed, the ladies
took the suffering medium under their care. Before
this, Mr. Corner, assisted by Mr. Tapp, walked the
person who committed the deed upstairs, and, after
waiting to learn whether the medium were alive or
dead, they let him go. His nose had been scratched
in the brief scuffle. We do not know whether he is a
Spiritualist or not, but in his public utterances he has
said much about seances at which he has recently been
present at the house of his friends Mr. and Mrs. Guppy
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—It has occurred to me that there is a slight
omission in the account drawn up last night, and signed by
all present, recording what took place at Miss Cook’s seance.
I, before the seance commenced, stated, as I usually do,
the conditions necessary, but as a further precaution,
mentioned that any infringement of them, especially
taking hold of Katie, would be highly dangerous to the
medium and perhaps fatal. The individual who committed
the outrage gave his assent to the condition; but, notwith¬
standing this promise, acted as named in the account above
alluded to. The object of his conduct is but too clear, i.e., to
prove Miss Cook an impostor; but I can tell him, and all
others who would so misbehave themselves, that Miss Cook’s
honesty and integrity have been too long established and
certified to by too great a cloud of witnesses, to be in the
least danger of being injured in the minds of any right-think¬
ing persons by such dastardly transactions. If I had time I
could write much more, but will now only refer your readers
to the severe test Miss Cook has submitted to, even to being
tied down by the hair of her head, as recorded in the Spiri¬
tualist. J. C. Luxmoore.
16, Gloucester-square, W., Dec. 10th, 1873.
(ftmespontience,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametr ically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE IDENTITY OF THE SPIRIT “JOHN WATT.”
SIR,—In the first August number of the Spiritualist were
published some of the proofs of John Watt's mental indi¬
viduality, apart from that of his medium. I should have
supplied other evidence and further details ere this, but for
the unexpected duties, which as President of the National Con¬
ference, devolved upon me, of carrying out certain resolutions
which were unanimously passed to form a National Associa¬
tion of British Spiritualists. These duties have occupied my
time and attention, and prevented me from discharging
several minor ones. I will take this opportunity of informing
the members of that Conference, and the societies which were
represented by delegates or otherwise, some news, which,
doubtless, most of your numerous readers will also be glad
to hear, namely, that nearly all the leading Spiritualists in
London, and many in the provinces, have been communicated
with, and, with very few exceptions, have all expressed them¬
selves favourable to the principle, and willing to co-operate
in the establishment and support of such a representative
National Association of Spiritualists. The Association will
shortly come before the world, fully equipped for the great
and glorious work of helping to remove the blindness and
prejudice of the people in reference to spirit intercourse, and
man’s continued conscious existence after he leaves his
material body. But this is a little digression from the object
of this communication.
In a foot-note, Mr. Editor, you say “ Mr. Everitt gives evidence
directly bearing upon the question, telling how John Watt gave
a Hebrew and Greek word not known before to Mrs. Everitt.”
You ask, “ Did he do this by the direct voice ?” I answer,
“ Yes and I will briefly relate the circumstances, and why
they were given. We wanted a name for our villa, as the
workmen were coming on the Monday morning to hang the
paper, and paint the name, which we had not yet fixed upon.
I said that I wished our spirit friends would give us one, or
that they would give us a number to choose one from. On
the Sunday evening, just before retiring, John came and spoke
to us. There were only myself, Mrs. Everitt, and son, present.
He said : “ You want us to give you a name for your house,
and you want to have several names to select from. Well,
how do you like Amana ?” He said this was a Hebrew word.
He gave the signification, pronunciation, and told us how to
spell it. He then said, “How do you like Tryphoena ? This,”
added he, “ is a Greek word.” He spelt this word with a
diphthong, gave the signification, and told us how to pro¬
nounce it. He also asked us how we liked Edenside or
Sunnyside. He then said, “ Have you got sufficient to choose
462
THE SPIRITUALIST.
from ?” I said, “ Drop another pearl or two, John.” “ Well,
how do you like Pearlside, or the Lilies ? But your mother
and Annie (Mrs. Everitt's guardian spirit) like Lilian, as Lily
is your wife’s spirit name, and her spirit flower. It signifies
purity and truth. But you must decide among yourselves.”
We thanked him, and he bade us good-night. Neither of us
had ever heard these words (the Hebrew and Greek) before.
Therefore, Wherever they came from, it is certain they did not
come from oi^r minds, which shows that John possesses know¬
ledge independent of his medium, and beyond the attainments
of any one present; therefore it clearly proves his mental in¬
dividuality and superior intelligence.
In reference to the Japanese sentence, you say, “ What is
the evidence that it was John who wrote the Japanese sen¬
tence ?” I answer, “ I have nd evidence either that it is a
Japanese sentence, or that John wrote it, only John’s word
(which I have always found reliable), and the fact that he
has several times given the pronunciation. This is the sen¬
tence, and I shall be glad if any of your readers can procure
a translation of it, “ Oui, ya, zoo, romuvao tsequm tiloboo)”
As we could not find any one who could translate it, we asked
John, and he said, “ When I was in Japan [meaning in his
earth life], I asked a Japanese gentleman if he would allow
me to see the interior of his house.” He-answered, “ Yes,
with very great pleasure.” He said he wrote it phonetically,
and added the two first words, which mean “ Yes” in two
other languages; therefore it would read yes, yes, yes, &c.
He wrote • the sentence in answer to a question put to
him by a gentleman as to whether John would visit him,
if conditions were such that he could. Where did
this sentence come from? No one present knew anything
about it, not even what language it belonged to, neither
have we heard anyone (although many attempts have been
made) pronounce it with the ease and beautiful euphony
that John does, so that the conclusion again is that he has an
independent mental individuality by giving utterance to
sentences and words which were never in the mind of his
medium. At a seance in Liverpool, we met the writer of the
enclosed letter, Mr. Samuel Hocking, whose name, profession,
and residence we had never heard before. John addressed
him by name, and told him, in conversation, much more than
Mr. Hocking has written. He has told us that he is no relation
of the Watt, of the Bolton and Watt’s factory, but. that he had
been in that factory many times. He told us that Brunei
gave the idea of a tunnel under London to the projector of the
Metropolitan Bailway, T. Everitt.
Lilian Villa, Hendon, N.W.
The following is Mr. Hocking’s letter to Mr. Everitt :—
Sir,—At your particular request, I jot on paper for your
use the substance of the conversation that took place between
one of your familiar “ spirits ”—John Watt—and myself, on
Sunday night last, at the residence of Mr. Shepherd, where I
(a visitor to Liverpool), was kindly invited by the host to
join a private seance, to witness some of the very singular
phenomena that usually take place at such meetings in the
presence of yourself and Mrs. Everitt.
During the.dark seance, the spirit “ John Watt” conversed
freely with the persons.composing the circle. He addressed
me personally, as being an engineer from Cornwall, and §aid
that he, in company with a party of friends, had lately visited
Cornwall, and hoped they should go there again ; they greatly
enjoyed the scenery there, especially the bold cliffs on the sea
coast, and that they brought back some of the serpentine
rock with them. He then asked me “ when it was I joined the
Institution of Civil Engineers ?” and on my saying it was in
the year 1844, he replied that was after his time, for he passed
away between thirty-five and thirty-six years ago. He then
asked me “ If I was acquainted with Bobert Stephenson and
Lock, engineers?” and, on my answering in the affirmative,
he said that they both \yere familiar acquaintances of his ;
that he, J. Watt, went to school (or college) with Stephenson
in Newcastle, where they used to assist each other in their
studies. Stephenson, he said, went to South America in
1824, and was called home to assist his father in the construc¬
tion of railways in 1827 (which is correct). He further said
that Stephenson constructed a bridge across the Menai Straits,
and another large bridge somewhere abroad. In answer to
my question, “ If he was acquainted with Robert Stephenson
in the spirit world ?” he said “ Yes!” and that Stephenson
Still devotes himself to engineering matters; and often im¬
presses his ideas on minds still on the earth plane. He knew
ulso Brunei in the spirit world—the man who constructed the
Thames Tunp§l, and added that ;t was he who impressed the
Dec. 12, 1873.
idea on the mind of the projector of the tunnel under the
River Mersey.
John Watt asked me if I knew Soho, Bolton and Watt’s
factory, near Birmingham, and on my answering in the
affirmative, he said, V The first steamboat was sent out from
there, was it not?” “Do you mean,” said I, “the steam
engine made there for Fulton’s first steamboat on the Hudson
River, New fork ?” “ Yes !” said he, “ the same.” He
seemed very familiar with Soho; had often heard of Mr.
Murdoc, the introducer of coal-gas for illuminating factories
and streets, but had no personal knowledge of him.
I fancied, from his answers to my questions, he was not very
familiar with the early history of railways; but, on my calling
the Manchester and Liverpool Railway the first, he corrected
me by saying, “ There was an earlier one at Darlington.”
On your telling the spirit “ John Watt,” that in his con¬
versation with me he had made known to them more of his
personal history than he had ever done before, he said, that
was becausehe then met, for the first time,in their company, a
man of his own profession, to talk to, who could understand
him.
There was much more in our conversation than I can recol¬
lect at the present moment, that would be interesting, could I
reproduce the language he used. I have a very defective
memory for words used as clothing for ideas and facts. You
will be able to add to this short and imperfect account of
what took place at, to me, one of the most interesting seances
I ever attended. Same. Hocking.
Rosewarfie, Camborne, Cornwall, Aug. 18th, 1873.
Mr. Peebles, on his return to New York, met Mr. Gerald
Massey at the residence of Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis.
The National Association.—Particulars respecting the
last meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists,
reached us too late for publication this week. The want of
such an association is constantly felt, if only to deal with
matters not within the province of newspapers to take up.
For instance, some of the persons who stood for ghost pictures
some time since, got themselves photographed; a national
association might have undertaken the work and responsibility
of identifying the originals. Public matters, which ought to be
dealt with by a representative body, are constantly cropping
up. Mr. Algernon Joy, and Mr. C. W. Pearce, have been
unanimously elected honorary secretaries to the association ;
Mr. N. F. Dawe hasbeen elected honorary treasurer, and M.
Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, honorary corresponding
member. The work of organising, and of electing other
officers, is going on steadily. Several Spiritualists have
already been elected members of the association, on application
and introduction.
Spiritualist’s Funeral in New Zealand.—The first
funeral in connection with the Harmonial Progressionists on
the Thames, took place yesrerday, in the consigning of the
body of Mary Williamson to the grave, her spirit having passed
away (as the brethren would say, into the Summer-Land) on
the evening of the 5th of July. The Spiritualists who took
part in the proceedings wore evergreen immortelles bound
with white ribbon on the left breast, and were further distin¬
guished by tjouquets of flowers in their hands. On the arrival
of the funeral cortege at the grave, A. Dunbar’s hymn of “ We
are going to the Spirit Land” was very well rendered by the
Thames Aurelian choir, of which Mary Williamson was a
member. Mr. R. T. Cunningham then delivered a very feel¬
ing address of encouragement, suitable to the occasion, when
the flowers and evergreens were cast on the coffin, and the
singing of Byron’s hymn of “ Immortality,” closed the pro¬
ceedings. It is worthy of remark, that although the weather
had been very unfavourable the whole fore part of the day,
from the time the funeral started the sun shone out with
splendour, and it continued fine until the return home.—
Thames Advertiser.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. V.—Our publisher says you did not send your address with your
note, nor the amount due for postage.
X.—Nobody should pay the slightest attention to what most physical
mediums say about each other. They are generally so driven by
their passions, especially jealousy, that we know of very many
sad cases of injury done, through persons, who ought to have
more sense, founding their opinions or acts upon what the lower
mediums have often invented about persons they do not like.
These remarks do not opply to mediums who are never driven
by their passions!
THE SPIRITUALIST.
463
Dec. 12, 1873.
Anthropology.—Dr. William Hitchman, of this town,
has recently delivered a course of lectures on the constitution
of human nature, in different cities and boroughs of the
United Kingdom, as well as contributed philosophical papers
to various British societies and foreign academies of science
and Belles Lettres, embracing the following important topics
of the day, viz. :—1st, The relations of man to the lower
animals; 2nd, Man’s place in nature; 3rd, What is man ?
4th, What is spirit ? 5th, What is mind? 6th, What is
body ? and the audience, at home and abroad, has ranged in
numbers from 15 to 1,500. Some curious statistics are in
course of preparation for the Statistical Society, showing the
exhibition of public taste for different branches of the tree of
knowledge.—Liverpool Mercury.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti-and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
T>EVERIDGE AND
.13 FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Spiritualist,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
TjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the.
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy- square, W.
The new patent self-acting dry closets,
for Earth, Ash’s, or CharcoaL No noise, no dust, no smell, no
inconvenience; economy and comfort combined. Send for price list.
PEAT ENGINEERING AND SEWAGE FILTRATION COMPANY
(Limited), 150, Leadenhall-street, London.
A. GLENDINNIN.G, Secretary.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM and Magnetic Lucid Somnam¬
bulism, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of Analagons
Phenomena occurring Spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., cr. 8vo.,
cloth, 3s. 6d.
TOWNSHEND’S (C. H.) FACTS IN MESMERISM, with
Reasons for. a Dispassionate Inquiry into it, the most philosophical
work on the subject. 3s. 6d.
Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holbom, London, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER AND PUBLISHER. Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane.
London, E, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information a-
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &e., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical'Society’s Report at the reduced
pride, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OP NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skms, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847, AAEON FeanKUN, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person, From
12 till 0. 58, Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, W,0,
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRYOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea
Address, care of Mr. H. R. Hinde, Bright-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street,,Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, -2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
33R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
JJvJL daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spirituahsts only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
IXUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
A healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 63, Great Coram-
street, Russell-square, W.C.
MRS. WOODFORDE,TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion,
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism D as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The addres- given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and hiah-clash character. ’—spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and'Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism. and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.’’—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE. Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where lettft-s, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. -
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0..
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers aod Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper
464
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 12, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London. Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P;, appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D,; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Sillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Sillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported :—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “'No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
bo afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions-should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; l ho manifestations are bom of the
snirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumghip than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Head O^ces.-BEOWN STEEET and MABSDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices fw Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
TO OWNEES OF HOUSE PEOPEETY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PABK GBOVE, SHEPHEBD’S LANE, BBIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLVi House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad, and near the Eailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PAEK BOAD, BEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
Now ready, 14th Thousand, 54 Illustrations, post free 14 stamps.
THE PEOPLE’S GUIDE TO HEALTH; or, YOLUN-
TEEBS’ MANUAL, by HENBY SMITH, M.D. (Jena.) Gives in¬
structions for Developing and Strengthening the human body, How to
regain Lost Health and Secure Long Life and avoid the Infirmities of
Old Age.
BEYIEWS OF THE WOEK.
“There is a daily growing necessity for such Works as the present,
if we are to be saved as a nation from retrograding."—Stirling Observer,
July 10th. “Any one in search of health and vigour will find it useful.”
—Morning Chronicle. “ If Dr. Smith had written nothing else tban the
4 People's Guide to Health’ he would have earned for himself the grati¬
tude of posterity.’'—Dumfermline Saturday Press, June 7, 1873.
Ward, Lock, and Tyler, Paternoster-row.
May be had direct from the Author on receipt of 14 stamps.
Address Dr. Henry Smith, 8, Burton-crescent, London, W.C. ,
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTBEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUBTON E O A D, BEIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licenced
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
TO BOOK-BUYER8.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE NO. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHABLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s, Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St; George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Ma,ria-lane, London, E.C.
