EE6HSTBEBD AS ANSiVSPAPiia.
OI*
#l^st fUtesppr romudi;i) loUj; ^^t.tilualism ux feal gxiiaiit*
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E,C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7,. Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library,, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the. Villa Nazipnale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street.’ SANf FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 217. (VOL. IX.—No. 12.) LONDON : FRIDAYj OCTOBER. 20j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Experiences in Spiritualism at Oxfoid in 1872 i No. II.
By St. George Stock, M.A.:—A Shower of Written
Messages in the Light—Powerful Physical Manifesta¬
tions in ' the Light—The Position of Scepticism—
Hume's Hypothesis—AnUnsucossful Seance—Anoma¬
lies of Mediumship—A Youthful Inspirational Me¬
dium—The Dying Child ... ... ...   ... ...133
Brixton Psychological Society 135
Spiritualism in Australia. By the|Rev. J. Tyerman 136
Turkish Atrocities:—Appeal to Spiritualists 136
Dr. Carpenter on the Slade Prosecution 1 137
Aid for Mr. Cogman  137
The Trial of Messrs. Slade and Simmons at Bow-street
Police-court. (Illustration.)... ... ... ... ...  138
Reprehensible Conduct of the Graphic Newspaper  139
Lecture on “ A Recent Visit to the British Association ”... 139
Epigrams. By Gerald Massey ... ... ...   139
Florence Marryat ...    ... ... ... .;. ...  140
Poetry:—“ Vineta ” '140
Correspondence:—The Legal Position of Mediums—Blan¬
chette Messages — Allan Kardec’s Doctrines—The
Spiritual Origin of Human Events—A Powerful Seance
in Swansea—Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena—The
Education of Children... ... : 140
Spiritualism in South Africa ... ' 142
Strong Physical Manifestations in Manchester. By Chris¬
tian Reimers ... ...‘ ...' ... ‘... ’   ... 148
Direct Spirit Writing at Malvern    144
Answers to Correspondents...'     144
Paragraphs:—Spiritualist Discussion Meetings, 136; Spirit¬
ualism in Dalston, 136; Suicide 144
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-*- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists hi all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause): Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist: Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) : The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Manrat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock,- B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the "'Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. iH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lod.
To residents in the United States, '! dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs, Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C." i .
THE EXCHANGE, WOLVERHAMPTON.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., te
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in th« same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one hook from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
_ Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislinghury, 88, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist andF.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. I id., post free.
RIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.lid.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
THREE LECTURES ON SPIRITUALISM
Will he delivered in the above Hall by
MR. J. W. MAHONEY, OF BIRMINGHAM.
On Monday, October 23rd.—‘‘Spiritualism: The Greatest
Question of the Age.”
On Tuesday, October 24th.—“Spiritualism: Its Theory and
Its Facts.”
On Thursday, October 26th.—“Objections to Spiritualism
Answered.”
Questions and discussion specially invited at the close of
each lecture.
The chair will he taken each evening at 8 o’clock precisely.
Admission—Front Seats, Is.; Second Seats, 6d.; Promenade
Free.
O PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 15, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Ruasell-street, London, W.C,
LECTURES—OCTOBER, 1876.
Mb. J. Ji Morse—
“ The Greater Human,” Sunday. Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
“ How does the Soul become Individualised? ” Monday,
Oct. 2, at 7.30 p.m.
Mb. John Hare—
“ The Coming Time and the Coming Man,” Sunday,
Oct. 8, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison—
“ Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell ” (continuation of
previous lecture), Sunday, Oct. 16, at 7 p.m.
'Miss H. Longbottom (of Halifax)—
“ Who Does it All, and How is it Done ?’’ Wednesday,
Oct. 18, at 7.30 p.m.
“Salvation according to Spiritualism,” Oct. 22, at 3
p.m.
“ God the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever,”
Sunday, Oct. 22, at 7 p.m. -
Mr. John Walton—
“ The Lessons of Spiritualism,” Sunday, Oct. 26, at 7
p.m.
Admission free. A collection to defray expenses,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
English Committee.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Oollen, Esq.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham. Bart.
HenryD. Jencken, Eoq., M.RJ,
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List of Contributors to 3rd October, 1876.
£ s. d.
C. B., per Benjamin Coleman (forwarded direct
to Mr. Green)     50 0
J. N. T. Martheze   25 0
Charles Blackburn    20 0
William Tebb        10 10
“ Nicodemus ”,   10 10
Thomas Grant      10 10
Oonntess of Caithness   10 10
Alexander Calder
P. R. Harrison       S
Mrs. Catherine Berry    2
N. Eabyan Dawe       2
James Bowman  2
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.    1
Miss Ponder   - 1
s. c. Han, f.s.a iJ&BKSKsiSt; 1
W. R. T     1
H. Collen     1
R. Glendinning       .....V 1
William H. Harrison        1
Thomas Blyton     1
A. O. Swinton     1
John Lament .'     ..1...... 1
Augustus Johnston      0 10
Algernon Joy   ; ..;   0 10
From a GermahTr.:... 0 6
A. Glendinning    0 5
Per Mr. James Burns's list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 29th September, 1876, viz. :—
£ 8. d.
Miss Jane Jennings  '    0 5 0
Mr. W. Jennison     1 0 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture     2 4 5
N. Y J   0 5 0
A Grateful One   1 0 0
M. A. B  0 10 0
F. M        0 2 6
Mrs. Ool. Boyd      0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10 0
Ool. P. Greek    110
Mr. Beckett     0.2 0
Mr. R. Wortley    1 10 0
J. F. O        0 10 0
Dr. Thomas Hayle  110
Mr. D. Richmond     0 6 0
Mr. D. Burgess   0 2 6 10 19 5
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to¬
wards this fund. Remittances can he forwarded either to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton,
hon. sec.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-Iane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued. •
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Managua
Just published, a New Song.
Remembrance (embossed title), 4s. in a
flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-ten ace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
TO INVALIDS AND OTHERS.
AN EXPERIENCED PHYSICIAN, prac¬
tically acquainted with all systems of Medicine, offers
a comfortable RESIDENCE to a Spiritualist, on moderate
terms, in a most salubrious locality, combining the advantages
of town and country, with view of the sea and pleasing inland
scenery. Apply to Dr. William Hitchman, 47, South-road,
Waterloo, Rear Liverpool,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.West Brompton, SAY.
Vice-Presidents.
Blacktrarn, Charles, Barkfleld, Didstmry, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, VV.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, IV.
Gulfy, J. M.; M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitehman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
• Rogers, E. D . Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin fi., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armficld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow. -
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K-, Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T-, Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
' Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
, S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddiugton-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place,W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-eottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Riehmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reirrers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
8trawbridge,Mrs.G.N.,Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood, r
Stock, St. George W., M. A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park.'Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomi roy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M.J., 9; Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D, H. M.A., LL.M., Po'steRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal), H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Menibers.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.l. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Chdmps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. II. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, 'Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Lekisic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
1 W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount .Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Ruede la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-lane,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
,T. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—K1 Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIYEKPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876,   
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
A GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISE EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall <fc Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs, Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. GOunod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c, will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. "Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
Oct. 20, 1876.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily,, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
ISS CH ANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dipsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £ 1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O,
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, ll a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will he held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honore,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or Who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
OOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
O LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6£
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
FURNISHED APARTMENTS to LET,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Eveniog, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may be left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
O CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
fTlHE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
JL journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Lutber Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able wiiters. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual iectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, Ac., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
^ of jlpttftlttaltm
Volujae Kij^e. Number Tweeve.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20th, 1876.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM AT OXFORD IN 1872. ijj say, is probable, but it is not to my mind necessary, for on
No. II. Ij! one occasion an incident occurred sufficient to suggest a
by st. george stock, m.a. j j i different explanation. We placed a sheet of paper and a
At tbe close of my last paper I stated the general im- j /1 pencil under a side-table near the door. Then we all of us
pression left on my mind by my first stance: but the m retired to a sofa at the other end of the room and ex¬
reader, if he is at all of a sceptical disposition, can readily ] j tinguished the lights. My friend Harrison occupied one end
understand that there were mental reactions, and that j j j of the sofa and I the other, and we were responsible for the
moments of belief alternated with violent paroxysms of j j i boys between us. I am morally certain that no one stirred
doubt. The seance was held at the very end of term, and I j j from that sofa, yet we distinctly heard the scratching of the
my friend Harrison left Oxford at the close of the week, I j j pencil on the paper, and on lighting up discovered some
but before he went I obtained his permission to hold a seance m message written. I forget now what its purport was ; but
in his room on the following Tuesday, when I determined jjj it was of a commonplace description, and in boy's hand-
to search the pockets of the boys before beginning. I now jii writing. This is one of the most curious facts that occurred
proceed to an account of this second seance held in his llj at my first seance, and it is strange that I should have omitted
absence. l\ \ to record it in its proper place.
Eight boys had assembled to meet me—one more than ji j To return, however, to the seance which I held by myself,
were present on the Thursday preceding. That boy (so 1>j-. the papers which I have described as being showered down
Harrison told me) had for some reason or other provoked (I on me mostly contained directions for the proceedings of the
the displeasure of the spirits, who had so mercilessly pelted f j j evening. It was ordered, as before, that Datton and Peachy,
him in the dark that he had been fairly driven to run for jji the two best mediums, should first be entranced, and on
his life. It had since been intimated, however, both by 111 another paper permission was given to two other boys to be
passive-writing and by the messages conveyed on paper, jjj entranced if they chose. We were likewise requested to
that he had now become a better medium: and so he was jjj burn incense until the room was full of smoke. I cannot
readmitted. Il l refrain from mentioning here that this idea of incense seems
a shower op written messages in the eight. jjj due to many of the boys having been habitual attendants at
We took tea together, as before. While the boys were li ’ the very ritualistic church of St. Barnabas; though I have
still seated round the table, I rose and walked to the If heard of its use at other seances. The boys’minds certainly
mantel-piece, turning over in my mind how I should Uj ran on Ritualism, and a priest with biretta made a frequent
broach to the boys my intention of examining their pockets, j j I appearance in their automatic drawing.
There were four candles burning on the mantel-piece, by ill* The shower of papers I have spoken of seemed a special
the side of which I took my stand. The boys, as I have J compliment to myself, and as if intended for my conviction,
said, were still seated round the table, which was at a con- jjj an en(l which it certainly obtained. But, presently after-
siderable distance, and were chatting together about some 111 wards, while the candles were still alight, and the tea-things
game of cricket. Such was the position of affairs in j j were being removed from the room by a little girl, another and
the room, when a shower of folded papers descended j j j mofe copious shower of papers began to fall on the table round
on me, floating gradually down, as if dropped very jjj which the boys were collected, who, one and all eagerly
gently. One of them alighted on my hand, and so called j | j scrambled to pick them up.
my attention to the rest. They did not seem, as the stones j(i' powerful physical manifestations in the light.
did, to come from or through the ceiling, but rather to start i j j After this we began to arrange the room for the seance^
into sudden existence in the air above me. It was physically jjj papers meanwhile falling in all directions. Their contents
impossible for these papers to have been thrown at me by jjj were of the same commonplace or trifling character as on
the boys at the table, and I thought it perfectly ludicrous j j j' previous occasions. One of them gave us the promise,
after this to propose the examination I had intended, a test j j j already fulfilled, that there would be plenty of papers that
having been given me far more satisfactory than any I j j j night. Another that I picked up contained the initials of all
could have devised. I have since regretted that I did not jjj the boys in the room, but without any mention of myself. This is
prosecute my search, nor should I now be surprised to learn j j j significant when coupled with the fact that none of the
that those papers which I saw thus descend through the air j j j mediums were acquainted with my Christian name. Another
had been originally in the boys’pockets. It would consti- jjj paper informed us that the writing of bad spirits leant to
tute exactly that embarrassing mixture of apparent fraud j | the right; that of good spirits to the left. This was a more
with undoubted miracle which so perplexes us in dealing j(j cheering explanation of the frequent backward writing than
with mediums ; a state of things which arises, as I believe, j j j my own theory of an attempt at disguisement. As soon as
in many cases from mediums being the unconscious instru- j j j the candles were put out the performance went on more
ments of some intelligent power which has no objection j( j merrily than ever. Papers still descended in abundance,
whatever to resort to trickery. There is an economy of the jjj which we picked up and read when, as was the case every
supernatural observable in seances, and where fraud is pos- jjj now and then, I lighted one of the candles. The disagree-
sible, fraud is preferred. The papers which fell upon me jjj able tone in which the principal medium spoke gave me the
thus in the full light were precisely like those of the former jjj impression that the spirits had not their company manners
evening, and contained the strongest internal evidence of jjj on. We had had a hint of this before in one of the papers,
being the production of boys. After the seances were all jjj which impolitely stated that one of the boys was “ a damned
over, it came to my ears that a certain school-fellow of some jjj fool.” His character was quite exceptional. The boy who
of the boys we sat with asserted that Peachy, one of the jjj picked it up off the floor seemed genuinely shocked, and at
mediums, had told him that one or two of the boys had been jjj once threw it into the fire. This impression was soon
seen to write the mysterious papers in school. Peachy had jjj deepened by the character which the meeting assumed, which
himself then lett Oxford, but it came out that he had never j jj was one of the utmost noise and riot. The most portentous
been inside the school where he said the papers were written. \h knockings were heard all over the room; stones were thrown
The evidence on this point is therefore very weak; but, not- jjj in abundance, and many of the largest things in the room
withstanding, I think it a highly probable hypothesis that jjj were.recklessly hurled on the floor. I had come merely to
these papers were written by the boys themselves in the ijj satisfy myself that there was no imposture on the part of
ordinary method of human production. This hypothesis, I 1 i the boys, and did not wish any entrancing to take place that
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 20, 1876.
night, as I felt sure it must be injurious to the patients. I jil
was already satisfied; so I conveyed the two mediums who ! |
had become insensible out of the room, and then lighted the
only candle which had been left unbroken. The invisible Hi
powers seemed very reluctant to bring the seance to an end |jf
so soon ; for even after this stones continued frequently to |||
be thrown, and the things in the room were tossed about in !)|
the most surprising way. There were two black hair-cushions |u
on the sofa. One of these I saw jump over the arm of the m
sofa into the corner of the room, no one touching it; the m
other deliberately got up and hit me on the head. At K]
another time a shower of quill pens and a pencil descended |||
on several of us (after the manner of the papers) as we were m
standing in a knot in the corner of the room. The pencil Kj
happens to be in my pocket at present—a BB Rowney. j j
THE POSITION OF SCEPTICISM—HUME’S HYPOTHESIS.
Such, then, was my second seance. Perhaps I may be \h
pardoned another extract from my diary, which shows the |5j
frame of mind in which it left me. Under the head of ||j
Sunday, March 17, I find the following, entry: uHaving |||
witnessed such extraordinary phenomena, and being solely j)j
desirous of arriving at truth, I saw no reason why I should m
observe silence respecting them, and accordingly freely re- k|
lated my experiences to my friends. The result was no other jji
than what I might have anticipated—utter incredulity, m
astonishment, and, in some instances, ill-disguised contempt. |||
I had let myself be grossly imposed upon by a parcel of ij
knavish lads; I had worked myself up into such a state of ||
nervous excitability that I imagined I saw and felt things j i
which I could not have seen or felt; I was unable to dis- j |
cern between the evidence of the senses and what I inferred (j
from their evidence; I was silly; I was mad ; I was drunk. I j
Even those who professed to believe that the facts took place jij
as I stated, were ready to account for them on any hypothesis 1 j
rather than that of spiritual agency. This was natural j |
enough, and I should probably have been in the same frame j j
of mind myself had I been told these things by another, j j
and not had the advantage of direct observation. As it is, j j
the only way to account for them seems to me to be by jj
supposing the presence of invisible personal agents, of what- |||
soever kind; that point Ido not undertake to determine, i j
This hypothesis I will hold until I can substitute for it m
another which better explains the facts. I see no likelihood I j
of such a one turning up; but far be it from me to shut j j
my eyes to inquiries in a contrary direction. The ridicule jjj
entailed upon me by defending this position I am proof | |
against. I know how impossible it is for people who have I I
had no direct observation of these things to estimate the j j
amount of conviction that they carry to the mind of one who m
directly observed them. For while people have an im- 1 j
mense respect for their own senses, they have very little respect | j
for those of others. But besides the acknowledged difference j j
between evidence at first and second hand, there is another /!
reason which induces me to tolerate, if not to sympathise j jl
with, the incredulity of my friends. I know that the j<|
prevalent modes of thought are such as to render it im- jjj
possible for them to look with anything but contempt upon :m
a theory which involves the violation of known natural jjj
laws. Man and nature are the only agents in the universe jji
that science will hear of. Whatever marvels cannot be jjj
accounted for by natural laws must have been produced by j j
fraud on the part of man. The interference of other per- jjj
sonal agents besides man is a notion utterly foreign to ijj
scientific experience, and so may be scouted without inquiry, jjj
The attitude of Hume in his Essay ov Miracles—viz., that jjj
under any circumstances whatever, it is more probable that j j
witnesses should lie than that a miracle should happen, is jj!
now, in relation to the present age at least, the attitude of jjj
all minds, even of those religious persons who declaim most j j
loudly against Hume’s profane scepticism. Never has any jjj
position obtained a more complete triumph than this ; and jjl
yet never, it seems to me, has a more bare-faced assump- jjj
tion been passed off as a deep philosophical doctrine.” jjj
AN UN SUCCESSFUL SEANCE. j\j
The account I have given of two very successful stances f j
has now to be followed by an account of two failures. Ex- jjj
periments that fail are often as instructive as experiments m
that succeed. On Thursday, March 14th, jthe day after the
remarkable seance which has just been recorded, I repaired
again to No. 10, Museum-street, and arranged with Dabber,
the boy who lived in the house, to have another seance that
evening, to which I determined to invite my friend Mr.
Jeans (now Fellow of Hertford, and one of the masters at
Haileybury) as being the most stubborn disbeliever among
my acquaintance. When we arrived in the evening at
seven o’clock we found to our disappointment that a serious
hitch had occurred in the proceedings. The noise that had
been made on several occasions had disturbed the neigh¬
bours. (It would have been very strange if it had not.)
They had complained to the delegates of lodging-houses,
who threatened to take away the landlady’s license if the
disturbances were continued. The consequence was, she
had refused to admit the boys into the house when they
came, and the greater number of them had gone off before we
arrived. With some persuasion, however, I prevailed on
the landlady to allow three who had remained to enter along
with myself, and a fourth was added in her own son. On
previous occasions it had always been required that the
party should be together in the room for half an hour or so
before the business of the seance commenced. Now, how¬
ever, we could not have tea to occupy this interval. Neither
was there any incense to propitiate the spirits, or, which
comes to the same thing, to give confidence to the mediums.
These circumstances, added to the fewness of our numbers,
were very damping.
For a long time there was silence interrupted only by my
friend’s sarcastic comments or by suggestions on the part of
the boys who were anxious for the honour of the spirits. At
length noises began to be heard about the room, and we
were enabled to converse with the operators by putting ques¬
tions to them, which they answered by rapping. The set of
signals previously established was one rap for u yes,” two
for u no,” three for doubtful,” and six for “ a mistake.” By
this means we were informed that no stones or papers would
be thrown that night. The manifestations were most un¬
satisfactory, as all the raps and noises came from the vicinity
of the mediums, giving Jeans ground for suspecting the whole
thing to be imposture. The spirits appeared to be in a very
angry mood, and gave negative answers with great vehemence.
It seemed as though the boys jumped out of their places
and pounded down on the floor with their full weight. Once
we were startled by a sound as if some metallic substance
were dashed violently on the floor. On lighting up we
discovered a sugar-tongs lying in the middle of the room,
which Dabber declared must have been taken out of the cup¬
board. The whole of this part of the performance was rather
suggestive of imposture than convincing to the sceptical
mind. Had it not been for my previous experience I should
never have doubted but that the persons in the room were
solely responsible for the motions and noises. Two of the boys
were obliged to leave early in the evening, and then the whole
company was reduced to four. By the suggestion of the two
remaining boys, Dabber and Peachy, who perceived that my
friend, suspected them, the four of us seated ourselves on the
sofa, with the two boys between Jeans and myself. On our
putting some question to the spirits, there came a loud pound
on the floor quite close to us, just as if Dabber, who was
next to me, had lifted his foot and stamped on the floor
under him, but I could not discover the least motion on his
part, and he earnestly denied having done so. After this
there was no more rapping or noise of any description.
Presently, however, Peachy began to mutter and babble. I
disliked allowing the boys to fall into the trance, and had
determined not to do so again; but my desire that my
friend should have every opportunity of witnessing phe¬
nomena prevailed, and I did not interfere. Two controls
occupied the medium successively, but the communications
they made to us were of the most unsatisfactory kind. The
rest of the spirits, we were told, had gone away, as there
were not enough mediums present. The two who remained
were in a very perverse mood. They talked in a very jocular
style, and took up my questions in a wrong sense, or, more
frequently refused to answer them at all. We repeatedly
asked the first who he was, but could get no answer out of
him but a Me.” The second refused point blank to tell his
name, but gave us an impossible address of his residence
during life, consisting of a jumble of places ia Oxford and
Ocjt. 20, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 135
London. Each, of the spirits bade us w good-night ” on
taking his departure. When the last had gone, there was
nothing for us to do but to bring Peachy round. This was
a work requiring time and patience. Of course a person
merely reading this account might easily carry away the
impression that the child was acting a part; but my friend,
than whom a more obdurate disbeliever could not be found,
was satisfied at the time that the symptoms of pain and
debility exhibited by the medium were not feigned. For a
long time he could not walk or stand upright unsupported,
but lay wherever we put him, moving his limbs in a convul¬
sive kind of way, and shading his eyes from the light, which
it pained him to have brought near them. Jeans examined
his pulse, and found that at first it was beating very fast, but its
rate decreased as the effects of the trance wore off. Gradually
he became quite restored, after which my friend and I de¬
parted and discussed the matter together at my lodgings.
His opinion was that the rapping and throwing about of the
furniture were the result of sheer imposture, and that the
phenomena of the trance were to be ascribed to the hys¬
terical state of excitement into which the boy had worked
himself up. In this opinion I admitted that he was justified,
so far as his personal experience went.
ANOMALIES OF MEDIUM SHIP.
With regard to the noises on this occasion having all come
from near the mediums, I have this to remark. There is no
doubt that the physical power displayed at stances is derived
from, or in some way connected with, the medium. The
completely materialised forms which have been seen and
felt, though apparently independent, have yet some mys¬
terious connection with the medium’s body. I have known
arms (with coat-sleeves on !) to come from and return to the
medium while his natural arms were tightly held. How in
proportion to the amount of power at a seance can the phe¬
nomena take place at a greater or less distance from the
medium. So when conditions are unfavourable rappings
must come from near the medium. This unavoidably gives
rise to painful suspicion of perfectly-honourable mediums.
But more awkward still is the fact, and 1 have reason to
believe that it is a fact, that Under very unfavourable condi¬
tions, the power cannot be made external to the medium at
all, but acts only through his limbs; so that the medium
sometimes plays the impostor without willing or knowing
it, the invisible' operator (whom I assume) being in some
cases perhaps as ignorant of the miscarriage of the manifes¬
tation as he.
The intelligence displayed at seances, so far as my experi¬
ence carries me, is as much the product of the medium or
circle as the physical power. The phenomena of trance and
of passive writing are obviously akin. In both we find the
contents of the medium’s mind shaped into a separate
personality. This requires, I think, the action of an extra¬
neous will, and on this I base my plea for the spiritual
origin of these phenomena. One might be inclined then to
attribute the effects to spirit and not to spirits only; the
will manifested seems to bear every resemblance to the
capricious action of limited agents, and so I assign the
phenomena to personal beings, not impersonal force. But,
to return to the boy-mediums, I had no reason to doubt their
sincerity when they declared themselves unconscious of what
they said in the trance. The unfeigned surprise with which
they often listened to a relation of it was the best proof I
could have. After having been entranced they sometimes
gave a great deal of trouble by continuing to talk when they
were not wanted to—-the wires still trembled after use. They
told me that in that state they were perfectly conscious of
everything that was being said and done around them, but
had no control over their own words, feeling compelled to
talk. To speak sharply to them, however, had some effect
in keeping them quiet.
Gn Monday, April 8 th, my frieud Harrison hejd a very
remarkable seance in his rooms, at which I was not present,
but though I value his testimony as much as my own ob¬
servation, I abstain from giving an account of it, as he can
himself do sq, if he feels inclined, to far greater advantage.
The only other seance which I attended with the same
mediums was a dead failure. It occurred on Thursday,
April .11, 1872. I was again anxious to proselytise, and
| | had brought our college tutor along with me. There were
| I only three mediums present, and nothing took place except
| | table-turning and automatic writing. He was convinced
f j that the writing was sheer imposture, and has regarded me
||| ever since as a weak-minded enthusiast, which is the kind
f of penalty one has to pay for indulging curiosity in this very
| | fascinating subject.
l|l A YOUTHFUL INSPIRATIONAL MEDIUM.
| | It will perhaps be worth while, before concluding, to give
|. some verses that were produced under the dictation of the
| I “spirits,” as they illustrate the genesis of inspirational
| | poetry:—
j j . THE DYING CHILD.
: 1 A nice old man one evening mild
| | Sat by Ms first but dying child.
ij | The child, looking up in his father’s eyes,
11 j Says, “ I am now rising into the skies,
H Where you and I, if good, shall rise,
/1 “To meet the Lord in the air.
| | |f But you must still follow the steps you tread,
I j “ Until you are mingled among the dead.
“ But, father, the angel is bidding me go ;
II i “ Some faithful will pick up the seed you sow ;
“ And you will not have to undergo,
“ The troubles you think you will.”
The poor old father with eyes full of tears,
j! I And trying to stifle all manner of fears,
Says, “ I will remember you when you are gone,
“And strew pretty flowers on the top of your tomb,
“ And then hope to meet you in Heaven, your new home,
“ Where all is so glorious and bright.”
It was a boy named Dutton through whose hand these
I | verses were written. I asked him if he had ever heard or
1 seen them before, and he said no, but that he was very fond
| i of poetry and would greatly like to be able to write it. He
i I likewise told me that previously to these some verses had
i j been written which were very much like some he had read
j | shortly before, and were prefaced by the query, “Shall I write
| | you something I read a little while ago ?”
There was no prophetic or clairvoyant knowledge dis-
| played throughout the seances, except in a single instance,
j | which I give for what it is worth. When the seances first
j I began, the spirits were asked whether the boys would ever
I I get into trouble for attending them, and had given the
| | answer “Yes; three months hence.” Ho attention was
I | paid at the time to the warning; but just about three months
j j from their commencement the seances of the “ Fiery Circle ”
I j were brought to an untimely close. The authorities of St.
I | John’s Choir School did not approve of their boys resorting
i to undergraduates’ rooms, and interfered to stop the practice.
I j So my investigations in this direction came to an end.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A general meeting of the members of the above society was held on
(I Tuesday evening, October 3rd, at Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald’s, 6,
| i Loughborough-road-north, Brixton, after a Council meeting the same
j i evening. Mr. Fitz-Gerald having been voted to the chair, the treasurer
ij; gave an account of the financial position of the society, and reported
I ] the balance in hand. Mr. Frances, hon. sec., made a statement of the
Ijj progress of the society during the past year, enumerating the meetings
|] that had been held, the seances with difierent mediums, and the satis-
i j I factory results that had been obtained; and, wMle he could not speak
Hi of a large influx of members, those they had obtained were remarkable
| i | for the genuine spirit of inquiry they displayed, and their diligent search
I j | for the interesting truths the society was formed to discover. Tested
m by the touchstone of commercial success, the society was not so
i i flourishing as it deserved to be; but on the score of valuable knowledge
i obtained and communicated there was no cause for complaint,
j! Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that the resolution passed at the Council, that
jj| the members use every endeavour to promote and sustain the Brixton
jj| Psychological Society, would be fully carried out. The society was
|j| gradually extending its sphere of operation and usefulness. He sug-
jj ] gested that the society should advertise in the Spiritual papers, and
! other means be taken to make its existence better known.
i | Mr. Frances proposed, and Mr. Tapp seconded—“ That a vote of
|j I thanks be given to Mr. and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald for their great kindness in
i j giving the society a home, and the generous hospitality they had always
II j extended to the members.”
|j | This resolution was cordially and unanimously agreed to, and, with a
|j | few words of reply from Mr. Fitz-Gerald, the meeting terminated.
Mn. Enmqre Jones and Dr. George Wyld, and not the gentlemen
1(1 named in the daily papers, were bail for Messrs. Slade and Simmons.
136
Oct. 20, 18^6.
tHE SPiRiTTJALIST.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.. :| |
BT THE KEV. J. TYEKMAN. iS!
147, Wooloomooloo-street, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, \(\
August 25, 1876.
I have not much Australian news to report that will be |jj
of interest to you. I am still settled in Sydney, and am m
likely to be so for some time to come, though I still intend |)|
visiting America, and possibly England too. I hold my jsj
Sunday meetings in the Victoria Theatre now, and have done jcj
so for the past eight months, during which time very large |;|
audiences have assembled. Indeed, the way in which the j<|
attendance has kept up has been as surprising as gratifying, i[[
and proves the deep and wide-spread interest felt in Spirit- m
ualistic and freethought subjects. In addition to the lectures I !
I have given on Spiritualism, my preliminary reading is often In
taken from the Spiritualist, and other organs of the cause, m
so that the people are pretty well posted up in the state of ju
the movement in different parts of the world. There are j?j
several circles in and around Sydney, at which steady pro- m
gress is being made, though nothing startling has yet ju
occurred, at any of them. The news of Trickett’s victory in m
.the great boat-race on the Thames, was given at three or !|j
four circles nearly a fortnight before the mail arrived, while j j
the cable was interrupted; the exact length by which he won | j
was also given at a circle that I sometimes attend. This has j j
made some who formerly scouted it, think that there is some- jjj
thing in it; but alas, many such persons would only use it jjj
as an aid in gambling, if they believed in it. Some of them jjl
have said that they would have betted upon Trickett, and j j
could have made a lot of money if they had known of those jjj
messages and could have relied upon them. I have raised j j
my voice as loudly as possible to protest against Spiritualism | j
being prostituted to any such vile purposes, as to enable one j j
man to take advantage of the ignorance of another. Besides, jjj
information sought for such objects would often be unreliable, I j
for the class of mind that would seek it would be likely to jjj
attract untruthful and deceiving spirits. !)■:
An incident occurred at the circle above referred to, and R
on the evening when the information about Trickett was jjj
given, which is worth relating. The medium had often jjj
appeared to be controlled by foreign spirits, but it was jjj
difficult to test the matter, as no member of the circle un- jjj
derstood the language that was professed to be spoken. But jjj
on this occasion an Italian was present, and no sooner had jjj
the medium been controlled, and commenced to speak, than jjj
he recognised his native tongue; not only so, but the con- ul
trol professed to be his father, and for over an hour he held jjj
conversation with his son on matters known only to them- jjj
selves. The Italian had never been at a circle before, and j j
was very much astonished, for he not only identified his pi
father by his reference to matters only known to themselves, jjj
but declared that the medium personated his father’s voice jjj
and manner with wonderful fidelity. The medium knows jjj
no language but the English, and that but imperfectly, j j
Such cases entirely upset the theories of Dr. Carpenter, j j
Serjeant Cox, and others.
“The Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism” has j j
resumed its meetings, which were suspended during the j j
hot summer months, and now meets once a month. The ijj
Hon. J. B. Wilson is president. He is an old Spiritualist, I j
who had the courage to show his colours when the cause jjj
was more unpopular than it is now. The meetings of the ijj
Association are very fairly attended, though there is some- jjj
times a difficulty in getting up a discussion. The main jjj
object of the meetings is to supply information to inquirers jjj
into Spiritualism. There are many avowedly interested in m
the question, and anxiously waiting for proof of its truth ; jjj
and 1 regret to say there are not a few who believe in it, jjl
and admit it in private, and yet have not the courage to j j
openly identify themselves with it for fear of the injury it jjj
would do them. jjl
I have just returned from a second visit to Brisbane, the ijj
capital of Queensland, nearly 600 miles from Sydney. An jjl
Association of Liberals was formed after my first visit, about jjj
fourteen months ago, and it holds a meeting every Sunday ijj
evening, at which one of the friends reads a paper on some j j
subject of interest, and is followed by others who discuss j j
what he has advanced. It was that Association which I j
wanted me to give a second course of lectures. I was there
two Sundays, on which days I lectured to very large
audiences. My last week-night lecture was on Spiritualism,
and it attracted the largest week-night audience we had.
The cause of Spiritualism is rather low in Brisbane. There
are a good many individual believers in it, but there is no
organised effort to extend a knowledge of it. Some of the
members of the Freethought Association are so bitterly
opposed to Spiritualism, that, out of deference to them, the
friends have not introduced it at the Sunday meetings so
often as they would have liked, but they intend to give
more prominence to it in future. How illiberal and in¬
tolerant many so-called Freethinkers are I
I have not heard much of the state of the cause in Mel¬
bourne and Victoria generally of late. The Davenport
Brothers have arrived in Melbourne, and will, no doubt,
give an impetus to Spiritualism in that city. I suppose
they will visit Sydney and other leading places.
I am glad to see that the National Association of
Spiritualists is gradually gaining in public favour. The
conduct of some in opposing its formation, and in such a
spirit, is much regretted by most Spiritualists in Australia.
TURKISH ATROCITIES.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Committee.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Keningale Cook, Esq., D.C.L.
W. E. Corner, Esq.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq.
Gr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Esq.
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald.
Colonel Greck, M.I.C.E.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M.I.C.E.
Miss Kislingbury.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Mitchell.
A. C. Swinton, Esq.
The terrible cruelties and privations to which the inhabitants of some
of the Turkish provinces have been subjected, and the immediate and
dire need of the survivors, have induced this appeal to Spiritualists to
assist in mitigating their sufferings.
The following amounts have been already either received or promised:
£ 8. d.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. 10 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq. 7 0 0
Colonel Greck, M.I.C.E. . . . . .550
C. Blackburn, Esq. . . . . . ,500
N. F. Dawe, Esq. 2 2 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq. . . . , . .220
Algernon Joy, Esq., M.I.C.E. . . . .200
Theo. Taunton, Esq. . . . . . .110
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S. . . • .LOO
Collection at Doughty Hall, Sept. 24th . . . 12 13 6
Proceeds of Mrs. Olive’s Seance . . . . 2 16 0
Miss Leigh Hunt’s Lecture . • » • , 0 16 0
£51 15 6
Further donations are earnestly solicited, and should be sent at once
to the undersigned, as the list must shortly be closed.
Theo. Taunton, Hon. Sec.
Raymond Lodge, Versailles-road, Anerley, S.E.
Mr. Charles Blackburn has wisely had a wire-net partition placed
in the cabinet of the National Association of Spiritualists, in order to
test the genuineness of certain materialisation manifestations. It is
desired that the spirits shall appear in material form, on one side of
the screen, while the medium is on the other.
Spiritualist Discussion Meetings.—The Experimental Research
Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists has received
authority from the Council to organise fortnightly discussion meetings to
be held during the winter months at 38, Great Russell-street. The
first meeting will be held on Monday, Nov. 6th, when Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. will read a paper on “ The Devising of Tests
in relation to Physical Phenomena.”
Spiritualism in Dalston.—A meeting of the Council of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at
the Association’s Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.,
on Thursday evening, the 12th inst. Present—Mrs. Amelia Corner,
vice-president, in the chair ; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. John
Rouse, and Mr. Jonathan Tozeland. The minutes of the last
meeting were read and confirmed. Letters of general interest were
read from Mr. W. Collier, Miss Kislingbury, Mrs. Weldon, Rev. G. T.
Driffield, M.A., Mr. A. J. Coppen, and the Rev. H. N. Grimley, M.A.,
of the Univeisity College, Aberystwyth. Presentations received since
last meeting were laid upon the table and accepted, with a cordial vote
of thanks to the respective donors—viz., Dr. George Sexton, M.A.,
Miss F. J. Theobald, and the Rev. H. N. Grimley, M.A. Captain
James was unanimously elected an ordinary member of the Associa¬
tion. Notice of resignation of membership from Mr. Robert Nelson
Dawson was submitted, and “ accepted with regret.” The engagement
of Mrs. Bassett for a series of three special siances, on the last
Thursday evenings in September, October, and November, was re¬
ported, and the arrangements confirmed. Terms for proposed engage¬
ment of Mr. Francis G. Herne for a series of special seances were sub¬
mitted, and the consideration thereof deferred.
Oct, 20, 1876.
THE SEntITUALIST. 137
DR. CARPENTER ON THE SLADE PROSECUTION. I i
The Daily News has published the following correspondence between jjj
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, of 56, Regent’s Park-road, N.W., and Professor iji
E. Ray Lankester, of 38, Belsize Park, London, N.W.:— j)j
To the Editor of the 11 Daily"News." |||
Sir,—I regret that the manner in which my name was brought for- j)j
ward in the cross-examination of Professor Ray Lankester at Bow- jl
street yesterday, renders it necessary for me to trouble you with a few jjj
words of personal explanation. As Professor Ray Lankester admitted, |)i
he inserted my name in the summonses which he took out against Dr. j)|
Slade, without any authority from me; and since he left me in entire !<i
ignorance of his having done so, my first knowledge that I had been |)|
made a party to the proceeding was derived from the police report of i
Oct. 2. Some days previously, however, in reply to a request made by m
Professor Ray Lankester that I would appear at Bow-street in sup- ])|
port of his summons, I not only declined to do so (on the ground of |(!
other engagements), but expressed my disapproval of the whole pro- jjj
ceeding as almost certain to do more harm than good. As Dr. Slade |)|
had not only not received money from me (as he was charged with \{\
having done), but had accepted my challenge to a trial of his powers at m
my own house, and with my own table, chairs and slates, I con- |)|
sidered it due to him, as well as to myself, that I should let him !{]
know that the use made of my name in the Bow-street proceeding was i) i
not only unauthorised by me, but was contrary to my expressed wish, j (j
I regret that Professor Ray Lankester, having placed my name on the | j i
charge-sheet without any authority from me, should not have caused its j)
removal as soon as he learned my disapproval of the proceeding; and j | j
that when my letter to Dr. Slade was shown to him in court, he did not i (j
explain that this referred to a letter he had received from me after he m
had taken out the summonses, but before the case first came on.—I re- ||i
main, sir, your obedient servant, William B. Carpenter. j i
56, Regent’s-park-road, Oct. Hth. j)|
To the Editor oft( The Daily News.” (Oct. 13th,) jji
Sir,—It appears to me a matter for regret that the proceedings in a Hi
court of law should be made the subject of a newspaper correspondence, j j
before they have come to a termination. Since, however, you have ;]|
admitted a letter from Dr. Carpenter, criticising my action, I must be H
allowed to reply to him. I do,not consider that I am called upon to i)j
offer any explanation to Dr. Carpenter for citing his name before the !j
magistrate who granted the summons against Slade, and I have no iji
further responsibility in the matter than is involved in publicly ])|
re-stating what he had publicly stated already himself. I am not i|l
aware that it is in my power, did I desire to do so, to alter the charge- (j
sheet. The charge against Slade and Simmons of “conspiring to j)
obtain money” from Dr. Carpenter and others by fraudulent pretences, iji
and against Slade of “ professing to make use of subtle crafts ” in order H i
to impose upon Dr. Carpenter, may or may not be affected by the fact | j I
that that particular gentleman was admitted to the entertainment free | j i
of charge. Upon this matter Dr. Carpenter is not at liberty, in the jj!
present state of the case, to offer an opinion. I must beg Dr. Carpenter
to observe that he is no more made “ a party to the charge ” than is the I jj
servant-girl who is cited in court as the dupe of a fortuneteller.
I must, on the other hand, point out that (no doubt unintentionally) j jj
Dr. Carpenter made a statement which was absolutely untrue, and iji
which caused me profound astonishment on reading it in Bow-street jjj
police-court, when he asserted that his name had been inserted in the j j i
summons “contrary to his expressed wish.”—lam, Sir, yours faith- i i
fully, E. Ray Lankester. jjj
To the Editor of the Daily News. (Oct. lAth.)
Sir,—I greatly regret that Professor Ray Lankester should have ren¬
dered it necessary for me again to address you, for the purpose of dis- j
proving the assertion you have permitted him to make, that the letter of j
mine which was placed in his hands last Tuesday in the Bow-street
Police-court contained “ a statement which was absolutely untrue ”— j
namely, that “ my name had been inserted in the summons ‘ contrary to !
my expressed wish.’ ” If, instead of making this charge on his own j
impression of the import of my letter, Professor Ray Lankester had
obtained a copy of it, and had asked me (as a friend) for a private
explanation of its meaning, he would have found that he had entirely
misconceived it.
What the meaning of my letter really was will be better understood
by the readers of the following concise statement of its antecedents,
which I do not think that Professor Ray Lankester can gainsay in a j
single particular:—
1. In originally taking out his summons against Dr. Slade, Professor
Ray Lankester cited me as one of several persons from whom Dr. Slade j
had obtained money under fraudulent pretences. For this citation he
had no authority from me whatever. I have never said, either publicly
or privately, that Dr. Slade had so obtained money from me, such not
being the fact; and had I been aware that my name had been thus
used I should at once have peremptorily insisted upon its withdrawal.
2. After the summons had been taken out, but some days before the
case came into court, Professor Ray Lankester received from me, in I
reply to his request that I should appear at Bow-street in support of his i
summons, an expression of my disapproval, of the whole proceeding.
3. Notwithstanding that I had thus expressed my disapproval, and
that it had been in Professor Ray Lankester’s power to instruct his j
solicitor, in opening his case, publicly to withdraw my name from it, and i
to disavow my connection with the proceeding, I found myself, to my
great surprise, paraded before the world in the police reports of October
2, in a manner which at once led both approvers and disapprovers of
the prosecution to suppose me to be a promoter of it.
4. Having occasion to write to Dr. Slade on the next day with refer¬
ence to an appointment he had proposed for the meeting at my house, I
added the following paragraph: “ The matter having been since
brought before the public in a different way—to which I desire you to
understand that I am not a party—my name having been introduced,
not only without, but against my consent, I think it better to wait the
result before taking any further action.”
It will, I think, be now obvious that when I affirmed that my name
had been introduced into the public proceedings, not only without, but
against my consent, I stated what was strictly true. And it will be
further obvious that in applying my words to what was a mere pre¬
liminary to those proceedings (even though in the technical sense a part
of them), in citing as my ipsissima verba what was only his own impres¬
sion of them, and in charging me upon that supposed citation with hav¬
ing stated what was “ absolutely untrue,” Professor Ray Lankester has
done me a serious injustice. For this the only atonement I desire from
him is a frank and immediate withdrawal of the last paragraph of the
letter which appeared in your paper this morning.—I am, sir, your
obedient servant, William B. Carpenter.
Athenaeum Club, Oct. 13th.
To the Editor of the “ Daily News.” (Oct. l^th.)
Sir,—A telegram received by me from Dr. Carpenter this morning
leads me to suppose that he may write to you, offering the same ex¬
planation of his letter produced by Mr. Munton in Bow-street as that
which he has thus offered to me. Should he do so, will you be so good
as to publish this letter—but not otherwise.
1. The only “ proceeding at the Bow-street police-court ” in which
Dr. Carpenter’s name had been mentioned by me or anyone connected
with the Slade prosecution previous to the production of Dr. Carpenter’s
letter by Mr. Munton, was the filling up of the summonses.
2. I have before me the only communication of any sort (except to¬
day’s telegram) which I have received from Dr. Carpenter on this sub¬
ject. It is dated Grasmere, Sept. 29. In it there is no complaint what¬
ever as to the use of his name without permission, nor does he express
any desire in the matter of any kind. The only remark which can be
construed into an expression of dissent refers to the general policy of
prosecution; it is, “ I am not at all sure that you are well advised in
bringing Slade before the police-court.” I am not at liberty to publish
Dr. Carpenter’s letter in full (on account of the pending prosecution),
but am ready to submit it to the perusal of a qualified peacemaker.
It is clear that Dr. Carpenter has been labouring under a failure of
memory in supposing that he ever expressed a wish to me on this sub¬
ject, or that I acted contrary to such expressed wish. It is time for him
to admit this. He has to retract two erroneous statements in the letter
produced at Bow-street which he has repeated in your issue of the 12th.
The first is that the Bow-street proceeding in which his name occurs,
namely, the summonses, could in any way be influenced by a letter
written to me on the 29th of September. The second is that the letter
written by him to me contained an expression of his wish in the matter.
Dr. Carpenter owes the public as well as myself an apology for his in¬
accuracy.—Faithfully yours, E. Ray Lankester.
AID FOR MR. COGMAN.
For ten or fifteen years Mr. and Mrs. Cogman have
worked publicly in the promulgation of Spiritualism in East
London, and on very slender means. They have carried on
Sunday services regularly; they have kept a permanent
establishment open for the benefit of inquirers, and Mr.
Morse, and many other good workers in the movement were
first introduced to a knowledge of Spiritualism by their
agency. All this they have done with scarcely any public
aid, because, by good management, and a dislike on Mr.
Cogman’s part to anything resembling a demoralising
system of constantly asking for contributions, they have
made their establishment nearly self-supporting, Mrs. Cog¬
man paying the balance of loss out of money earned by
needlework. From the following letter, it will be seen that
Mr. Cogman is now dangerously ill, and that he requires aid
which should be given without stint. So far as personal
hard-work and daily self-sacrifice are concerned, Mr. Cogman
and Mr. Thomas Blyton have probably done more for
Spiritualism than any other persons in London:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist,”
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me a small space in your
paper to appeal to our Spiritualist friends for their assistance
on behalf of our old worker, Mr. Cogman, of 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile-end, E. He has worked during many years for
the benefit of Spiritualism without asking for payment, and
is now lying dangerously ill, and without money to get
necessaries. All friends who will help in affording him
relief will kindly send it to me in stamps or Post-Office
orders. Agnes Maltby.
41, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
138
TH® SPiRItniAXIST.
Oct. 20, 1870.
Oct. 20, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 130
REPREHENSIBLE CONDUCT OF THE GRAPHIC NEWS¬
PAPER.
Of the several gross instances of the prejudicing of the
public mind by newspapers, while the Slade case is on trial,
the Graphic has furnished one of the worst. The Examiner has
already been made an example of in court, and the Daily
Telegraph printed that Dr. Slade’s seances ytevo, performances,
and that, too, before a single witness had been heard.
The Graphic has printed at the bottom of its picture the
following sentence from the evidence of the prosecutor:—
c< Pbofessor E. Ray Larkester {(/wing evidence')'. ‘I
said, you have already written on the slate; I have watched
you doing it each time, you are a scoundrel and an im¬
postor.’ ”
Now, a chief point which came out in the evidence, was
that Professor Lankester nev&i’ saw - any writing done hy Dr.
Slade. He merely inferred^ from motions of the wrist, that
writing was done. Thus the Graphic has conveyed a
glaringly false idea to the public mind, while the case is
on trial.
The artist has further displayed u legal acwwecw ” in so
doing, for by quoting a piece of actual evidence, he provides
himself with some kind of excuse for the act.
Then the picture is not truthful. . Dr. Blade was quiet
and dignified all through the case, as shown in the far more
trustworthy Pictorial 'World engraving. He did not show
any of the graphically depicted excitement; and Professor
Lankester, instead of looking happy over his evidence,
seemed particularly uncomfortable.
Then, into the faces of one or more of ,the intelligent
observers the artist has put expressions of sickly senti¬
mentality. The whole picture is a disgraceful burlesque,
and the quotation at the bottom is so at variance with the
average of the evidence, as to be calculated to defeat the
ends of justice.
LECTURE ON “ A RECENT VISIT TO THE BRITISH
ASSOCIATION.”
Last evening the opening meeting of the St. George’s Church Asso¬
ciation was held in St. George’s Church Schoolroom, Belfast, and was
largely attended. Dr. H. Pur don occupied the chair.
Rev. Dr. Mcllwaine prefaced his address by a sketch of the |||
history of the Association, the first meeting of which was held in j(j
York in the year 1831, when its members huttibered only 353. Dr. ||i
Mcllwaine remarked in favourable terms on the fact that the exist- nj
ence and rule of the Supreme Author and Upholder of the Universe i(i
were distinctly avowed in the closing paragraph of Dr. Andrew’s ;>]
address, which thus contrasted favourably with the unseemly attack 1 (
on Christianity made by Dr. Tyndall in his celebrated inaugural i(j
address in this town. The lecturer proceeded to notice in detail > j)]
the proceedings in the several sections, more especially in the Anthro- ! nj
pological department, to whicli he had given the greater portion of his 1 m
attention. In connection with the proceedings therein, he entered ijj
at considerable length into the discussion raised by a paper read by ju
Professor Barrett, of the College of Science, Dublin, on what that ju
gentleman termed certain abnormal mental phenomena connected with m
mesmerism. Dr. Mcllwaine characterised the introduction of such a i<|
subject, and the manner in which it was tx?eated by Professor Barrett, j j
as altogether unfit for discussion before a scientific assembly. He had M
ascertained—it was, indeed, well known now—that it was only by a sort j i
of management it had been foisted into the proceedings of the Associa- • j [ j
tion, thequestion of its admission having been discussed at a committee of {(j
the section, and carried by the casting vote of the chairman, Mr. Wallace, i | j;
the avowed Spiritualist, whose conduct, as chairman of the section, was' i)i
afterwards of the most unfair kind to himself and others .who attempted i;!
to expose the fallacies and weakness of Professor Barrett’s paper, ivjj
The lecturer proceeded to read from that document the statement of ijj
alleged facts on which a scientific inquiry was demanded. These jo;
amounted to nothing but the ordinary tricks and self-delusions of the j j i
practitioners in phreno-mesmerism (as they named it) and clairvoyance^ ijj
and were utterly unworthy to be classed among subjects for scientific j j
investigation. Dr. Mcllwaine commented severely on the fact, ad- ijj
mitted by Professor Barrett himself, that the subjects on whom he and i j
others experimented were young and susceptible girls and boys, whose j (
nervous system could not be so treated, even admitting the existence of i j
the mesmeric influence, without extreme danger and impropriety. He j)
also showed that, while Professor Barrett denied his belief in Spirit- i
ualism, his alleged facts led to that absurdity. He next proceeded to i|
give an account of the scene which followed in the section when the j j
president called up a number of speakers on his own side, and en- jj
deavoured to invalidate and throw discredit on the statements of him¬
self and others, including Dr. Carpenter. The climax of such conduct
was reached when Mr. Wallace threw discredit on the late Sir James
Simpson, at which the entire meeting loudly expressed its disapproba¬
tion. Among other speakers in favour of Professor Barrett’s views
was Mr. Lane Fox, one of the vice-presidents of the section, who, as
Dr. Mcllwaine reminded the meeting, was the gentleman who at the
Belfast meeting styled the religious opinions of his auditors “ a kettle
of-fish.” Another of Professor Barrett’s witnesses was Dr. Slade,
whose appearance before the police-courts would .afford-a proper test
of his credibility. Dr, Mcllwaine further gave an interesting account
of the remaining proceedings, and spoke in terms of high praise of the
address of Professor Tait oh “ Force,” in which he-’convicted Dr.
j Tyndall of gross inaccuracy as a scientist, ■ and severely rebuked him
for his attack on the religious convictions of. his hearers. The address,
which occupied upwards of an hour in the delivery, was listened to
with interest to the end, and throughout was frequently applauded.
On the motion of Dr, Wales, seconded by the Rev. Mr. Kinaghan, a
vote of thanks was passed unanimously to the; Rev. Dr.' Mcllwaine for
his lecture.—The Northern Whig (Belfast). - . . • . ,
EPIGRAMS.
BY GERALD MASSEY.
Jokes on the Slate, to raise the laugh,
Are hitherto one-sided.
Upon the other (half-and-half !);
I’ve written and derided.
i. . lo '
One ray, at last, of penetrating light,
Hath pierced the darkness of our mentaT night.
So simple all supreme discoveries are!
But this is the supremest, simplest, far—
The only one in all the world who knew,
The young man made his juvenile dehut;
He came, saw, conquered, Csesar-like, elate!
Let him be crowned, then, Seizer of the Slate!
n.
A young man, to the Barber’s went,
And did the Shaver seize, and
Charged him with barbarous intent
To cut the young man’s weasand.
“ ’ Tis useless to deny the fact;
In vain you threat or pray, Sir!
I swear I caught you in the act; . . .
Your hand was on the razor! ”
m.
’Tis trickery. So you needn’t “ try
The spirits,”—fatal reason why.
The case; is in a nutshell curled.
Crack it. There is no spirit world.
• iy.
So clever, confident, and young,
’Twere just as well had he been hung!
f Good heavens ! What has the young man done?”
Married . » . . to ;. . .. Mrs. Partington !
She met the Ocean with a Mop;
He tried the other world to. stop.
, v.
The apostle bade us “ try the spirits,”
And judge them fairly, on their merits ;
But did not clear instructions give .
For catching things so fugitive
As spirits, in the Lawyer’s sieve ;•
And, possibly, he might retort,
“ / didn't mean at Bow Street Court!”
We receive many letters about the Slade prosecution, including some
from the Continent, but now is not the time for the publication of them.
Mrs. Weldon’s “Sociable Evenings” begin early in November, on
Mondays. Tickets, available for three months, may be obtained of
Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism has reprinted
its prospectus and rules, which are models in their way, and the result
of the experience of years. New local societies would do well to
adopt them, in place of hastily-formed regulations.
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 20, 1876.
FLORENCE MARRYAT.
(From The Figaro <( Wednesday Programme”)
The gifted and popular lady who, as novelist, editor, vocalist, reader,
and public entertainer, has so often amused and delighted thousands of
her fellow-countrymen and women, needs little or no introduction to the
ordinary reader. We all know Florence Marryat (Mrs. Ross-Church)
by her works, even if some of us happen to be unacquainted with her
features. Those who indeed have the good fortune to claim acquaint¬
anceship with Florence Marryat in social life, know her as a charming
and gifted lady of society, a true Englishwoman and mother, and a being
of true heart. The brightness and geniality of her nature are only
equalled by her genuine kindliness of disposition. She can be foe to no
one, but many can claim her for a true friend, and one who will put
herself to almost any inconvenience and trouble to do a kindly or a
friendly action.
But, although it is only the barest justice to render fitting tribute to
the possessor of such excellent and rare gifts, yet to the general public
Florence Marryat will be chiefly known by her works. The child of the
famous novelist, who, thanks to his native wit and his vigorous style, made
himself a name which bids fair to be remembered so long as the English
language is spoken, Florence Marryat has inherited much of the charac¬
teristic talent of her father, tempered in her case by wide experience, by
a large knowledge of the world and of human nature, and by that polish
which mixture with society can alone give. In Gup she has given us
a sketch of Anglo-Indian life as it is, with a vast accumulation of tale
and gossip, which proves its author of quick perception as well as of
retentive memory. Few books of its sort have had a greater success or
been more widely read than Gup since it first appeared in the pages
of Temple Bar, and few works are more thoroughly worth reading and
re-reading. It was early in life that Florence Marryat produced her
first novel, Love's Conflict, and this established its author’s ability, not¬
withstanding the fact that she laboured under the serious disadvantage
of being known as the daughter of Captain Marryat. The world in
general is sceptical as to the doctrine of hereditary genius, and it is
difficult to induce it to believe that the child of a celebrated parent
possesses any talent at all. There are so many instances to the con¬
trary, and instances which are so easy to adduce, that the daughter of
the famous novelist would—had it not been for her own manifest ability
—have found it difficult to have made a name at all. But Love's Conflict
was at once taken into popular favour, and Woman against Woman
placed its author in a very high position amongst contemporary authors.
From that time to the present the career of Florence Marryat has been
one of uniform success, and of continued and increasing popularity.
Woman against Woman was succeeded by Veronique Petronel, The
Girls of Feversham, Gerald Estcourt's Confessions, Nelly Brooke, and
others, and still later by Fighting the Air, and My own Child—Florence
Marryat having, in the course of eleven years, published no less than
eighteen novels.
One of the most admirable features of the novels by Florence Marryat
is her earnest sympathy for women. As a general rule—to which there
are, of course, a few exceptions—lady novelists appear to have the very
smallest opinion of the members of their own sex. Things and thoughts
about women which a man, with any suspicion of chivalry in his com¬
position, would not dare to print, are written fearlessly by some lady
novelists, whom we need not name. Authoresses, as a general rule,
appear to seek to work for the depraved tastes of men alone, and do not
attempt to bring out and improve in purity the beautiful nature of
woman. With this fault—a glaring and not by any means an honour¬
able one—no one can charge Florence Marryat. At times she may,
indeed, be almost effeminate; she may show far too much of the woman
in her works; but she has never forgotten her own sex, and the deference
and respect which it should be universally paid. Florence Marryat is
not unknown as a dramatist, and, besides a theatrical work written in
collaboration with Sir Charles Young, she has partly constructed the
entertainment with which she has delighted the amateurs of the
provinces. For some considerable time she was the editor of London
Society, and the popular magazine was never better managed than when
under her able guidance. Increasing ties of authorship led her, a short
time ago, to resign the post in which she had gained so much credit and
honour, and the loss would have been severely felt if the lady editor of
London Society had possessed a less efficient successor. A severe and
much deplored accident recently compelled her to postpone for a time
the completion of the provincial tour which she had so successfully
commenced. This tour, undertaken in conjunction with Mr. George
Grossmith, jun., had already proved highly successful, and the entertain¬
ment entitled “ Entre Nous,” which is written almost entirely by the
two individuals who are its sole interpreters, was resumed on the 3rd
instant. The drama she loves as only a woman of truly artistic instincts
can love it, and in giving to the stage the brightest and cleverest of her
children—Miss Eva Ross-Church—she has offered the best proof of her
affection for it. Florence Marryat can still boast of the freshness of
youth, and though now probably in the plenitude of her powers, she has
practically her life before her. That she will be content to rest on the
laurels she has so deservedly won is most unlikely, and we may yet
expect many more able works of fiction from the same fluent pen.
Meanwhile, Florence Marryat will remain the celebrated novelist and
clever entertainer, popular with the public, envied by society, cherished
by her many true friends, and adored by all who admire a genial nature,
a warm heart, and all the many social and private virtues which can
adorn an Englishwoman.
“YINETA.” .
A famous fradition belongs to the ancient town of Vineta, on the Baltic—
once, it is said, the great emporium of the north of Europe—several times
destroyed and built up again, till, in 1183, it was upheaved by an earthquake
and swallowed up by a flood. The ruins of Yineta are popularly believed to
be visible on certain days, and the bells audible below the waves, between the
Pomerania and the island of Rugen. The following lines in relation thereto
were sung at a soiree given by Sir William Thomson and other professors to
the British Association at Glasgow:—
From the sea’s deep hollow, faintly pealing,
Far off evening bells come sad and slow ;
Faintly rise, the wondrous tale revealing
Of the old enchanted town below.
On the bosom of the flood reclining,
Ruined arch and wall and broken spire,
Down beneath the wat’ry mirror shining,
Gleam and flash in flakes of golden fire.
And the boatman who, at twilight hour,
Once that magic vision shall have seen,
Heedless how the crags may round him lour,
Evermore will haunt the charmed scene.
From the heart’s deep hollow, faintly pealing
Far, I hear those bell notes sad and slow;
Ah! a wild and wondrous tale revealing
Of the drowned wreck of love below.
There a world in loveliness decaying
Lingers yet in beauty ere it die!
Phantom forms across my senses playing,
Flash like golden fire-flakes from the sky;
Lights are gleaming, fairy bells are ringing,
And I love to plunge and wander free
When I hear the angel voices singing—
In those ancient towers below the sea.
(Eorreaponuence.
[ Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE LEGAL POSITION OF MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I do not know Dr. Slade, and can, therefore, offer no opinion
as to the genuineness of the communications that are said to have been
received through his agency. As there seems, however, to be some
doubt as to whether it is not unlawful for a man to believe in anything
that he cannot explain by those of the laws of nature with which
every schoolboy is acquainted, I would recommend, if Dr. Slade is
convicted, that summonses should be taken out against all the teachers
of religion throughout the kingdom. If science is to sit in judgment
on the one, let it do so on the other also. A very large portion of the
latter lay claim to the possession and exercise of supernatural power.
The most that I have ever heard Spiritualists say is that certain things
occur in their presence for which they cannot account. Let this
supernatural power be demonstrated by scientific experiment.
For some time past Spiritualists have been asking men of science to
investigate the phenomena upon which their belief is founded ; but it
has always appeared to me to be about the same as asking the Pope his
opinion of Protestantism, or the Archbishop of Canterbury his of Mr.
Bradlaugh.
Much has been said about paid mediums; but I would ask, where
is the man who possesses, to a larger extent than his fellows, any gift,
talent, knowledge, power, opportunity, or anything else, that places
it at the disposal of the public for nothing ? And I would also ask, is it
reasonable to expect a medium, who is sought after by the public, not
only to give up his whole time, but to provide accommodation at his
own expense, and without reward, for the pleasure, and in many cases
simply to gratify the idle curiosity, of persons who are total strangers
to him 1
For myself I have never received one shilling, either directly or in¬
directly, for anything connected with Spiritualism. The interest I
take in it is simply irom having witnessed certain things which to my
mind are infinitely more extraordinary than anything that is said to
have occurred in the presence of Dr. Slade, and this when no paid
medium has been present.
Until it has been decided whether it is lawful to take money for
acting in the capacity of a medium, I would strongly advise all persons
who do so, either to have it distinctly understood in each instance that it
is as a consideration for the use of their rooms only, or else to call them¬
selves spirit conjurers. By either of these means they will be sure to
be on the safe side, as far as the law is concerned.
H. B. Sanderson.
London, October 12, 1876.
PLANOHETTE MESSAGES.
To the Editor of the 11 Manchester Examiner and 'Times.”
Sir,—Seeing the report in your paper of Dr. Slade’s first appearance
in the Bow-street Police-court on the 2nd inst., I write to give your
readers a line or two from my own experience in this matter. It is
not for me to say whether the doctor is an impostor or not; if he is, he
deserves all that he may get, but proving him to be a swindler will not
explain the mysteries of Spiritualism, or whatever else it may be called.
Some time ago I purchased a planchette, and, after discovering what
were the conditions under which it would write, I began, with the
help of two ladies, to develope the hidden force—call it by any name
you please—and very soon received some very strange revelations,
Oct. 20, 1876.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
141
amongst which wgre the following. It wrote : — “A B C is in his
grave.’’ u What for ? ” “ For committing forgery.” “ When ? ”
“ In 1842.” “ What was the nature of the forgery committed ? ” “ He
altered a rate-book in such a manner as to help onward a fraud.” “ How
long will he have to remain in his grave ? ” “ Until restitution is
made for the wrong.” <c Is he conscious while in his grave ? ” “ Yes.”
Now, sir, this was a matter about which no person in the room had
any knowledge whatever; but I knew some of the friends of the de¬
ceased, and wrote to make inquiries, and found that it was true. I
was assured that he had access to the rate-books in question about that
time, and that the books were altered in the way stated, and that it
was in his handwriting. Take another case. Some time ago I wrote
a letter to a friend at S , and gave it to my son to post, and with¬
out telling any one of the contents of my letter. I requested a lady to
sit down to planchette, when the following questions were put:—“Are
there any spirits in the room ? ” “ Yes.” “ Who? ” “ Mr. A. M. M.”
“ Do you know who I wrote to this morning ? ” “ I do ; it was to
Mr. M , of S .” “ Do you know where he resides? ” “I can
find out.” Will you go to his house at post time this evening and
bring me word what he says respecting my letter ? ” “I will try and
do so, and will be back here at nine o’clock to-night.” Planchette im¬
mediately stopped all writing. At nine we went to it again, and it
wrote :—“ I have been to Mr. M- , of S . I saw the letters de¬
livered, but there was not one from you.” Just upon that my son, to
whom I had given the letter to post, came in, and upon inquiry I found
that he had forgotten to post it until too late for the morning despatch,
so that it was true my letter could not have reached its destination
that evening. I then said, “The letter will be there to morrow morn¬
ing.” “ I will be there and bring you word about it at twelve o’clock.”
At that hour we received the following communication :—“I was at
Mr. M ’s this morning. He received and read your letter, and said
so and so about it, and that he would write you by to-night’s post, so
that you will hear in the morning.” The morning brought me the
promised letter, and the substance of it was the same as that which
had been communicated to me the day before. Planchette says that it
is done by the spirits of the dead. If it is not done by them, perhaps
Dr. Bay Lankester, or some other friend, can tell me how it was done.
I have seen the table-turning, but that is not a matter which interests
me so much. My anxiety is to know what independent power it is
that gives intelligent answers to my questions, and volunteers informa¬
tion respecting matters of which no one in the room had any previous
knowledge, but what subsequent inquiry has proved to be true. I am
no Spiritualist, but I am waiting for some sensible solution of the
thing. I most solemnly assert that the foregoing is true, and I could
give many others equally strange. If you will kindly insert this letter
I shall be obliged. In Limine.
October 9.  
ALLAN KARDEC’s DOCTRINES.
Sir,—Your correspondent, “ J. W. F.,” in your No. of Oct. 6th,
says : “ On the Mount of Transfiguration the veritable Elias appeared
with Moses, and though the three disciples had known John per¬
sonally, and had not known Elias, they did not confound the one with
the other.” No ; they did not confound them, but were evidently con¬
founded, not least, perhaps, by the recognition of John the Baptist.
However, even as they came down from the mountain where Elias
had appeared, Jesus gave the three disciples an explanation concerning
the identity of Elias and John that must have led them to a decided
conclusion upon this important point; for it was at this very time,
after having just seen Elias, that the explanation was given, whereby
they understood that Jesus, in speaking of Elias, spoke to them of John
the Baptist. M.A. (Cantab.)
THE SPIRITUAL ORIGIN OF HUMAN EVENTS.
Sir,—Marvellously ignorant, real or assumed, are the comments of
the Times on the “supernatural” and wild indeed its hallucinations
concerning hallucination, or that which is often falsely so called, as
shewn in The Spiritualist of September 15th. There appear to be in
the present day three orders of minds : one grasps quickly and naturally
psychic subjects; a second grasps them in part at least, but ignores
them, perhaps, for a selfish purpose; while a third goes grinding on
honestly and cheerfully on the material plane, with its cart-loads of
commentaries, contradictory of each other and of themselves, day after
day, because he lacks spiritual discernment; not for want of evidence
surely, for if Spiritualism has not been proved a reality at the present
period, then no fact at all is capable of demonstration; but it is now
generally acknowledged that a medium is as much a reality as a
critic.
What personal incidents, what public events that stir up humanity to
the quick have not a spiritual origin ? How about this War between the
Christian and the Moslem ? How about these late meetings throughout
our own country respecting some of the sorrowful results of that war ?
And still the public prints hold on to their matter in its grosser form as
our high motors, as though it were not the unseen forces which rule the
world, and not the seen ; as though they did not make our most material¬
istic journals their most furious partisans. Suppose we should grant
that, as A. J. Davis somewhere, I think, succinctly remarks, “ Every¬
thing is the same thing;” supposing we should grant, I say, that spirit
is but the fine end of matter, the latter becoming small by degrees and
beautifully less, until it is refined into the former, like—save the mark!
—a coachwhip, why is it that some handlers of the biological persuader
can only use the butt end, being thereby incapacitated from touching
the leaders, and when they ply their lumbersome battery on those
within the reach of any spirit, render themselves and their whole
concern liable to, if not certain of, an overturn.
“ Ghost stories,” says the Times forsooth, “ are undistinguishable
from occurrences with which every physician is familiar.” Yes, truly
1 physicians of the calibre of the critic, who can only see a material
origin in the diseases of nations, and the diseases of men’s bodies, and
who are so aptly described in the consultation of the doctors in Ansley’s
New Bath Guide :—
Sad news in the papers; G-d knows who’s to blame
The colonies seem to be all in a flame—
What can Portugal mean ? Is she going to stir up
Convulsions and heats in the bowels of Europe ?
’Twill be fatal if England relapses again,
From the ill blood and humours of Bourbon and Spain.
Says I—My good doctors, I can’t understand
Why the deuce ye take so many patients in hand ;
Ye’ve a great deal of practice as far as I find,
But since ye’re come hither, do pray be so kind
To write me out something that’s good for the mind.
I have diverged from the text of the poem in one word only, but its
applicability is made none the less by the change. What a good thing
| it would be if that admirable body of men, the medical profession,
! would study the spiritual body that runs through the whole frame more,
and the lower organs less ; and then, instead of ghost stories being
j undistinguishable from occurrences with which every physician is
|. familiar, they would not only be familiar with them, but learn to dis¬
tinguish concerning them.
! This then is my answer to the Times, conveyed by the signs of the
times. Instead of “ ghost stories, bearing the trade mark of their
! human origin,” things, on the contrary, most human in their superficial
guise, can bear the trade mark of their spiritual origin. If we want
proof of my assertion, let us but look with clairvoyant eyes into our
f madhouses, and many private houses also, and there will be found a
| vast number of cases that should be cured rather with medial or mes¬
meric power than with purgations and the douche. If we look at our
j bodies politic, what do we find there? We hardly ever hear of wars
that have not manifestly their spiritual origin. Men of common sense
would never enter into them unless they were stirred up by some -
| thing stronger than their calm and quiet judgment. I do not say that
spirits in the flesh, or out of it, who stir up to war are of a high order ;
the highest spirits are always on the side of peace, so are the highest
men. Peace and good will towards all men is an angelic text, but men
in general are not angelic, not even critics who write for the Times, so
| they will always take sides with partisan spirits like themselves, one
| party being generally as much led by passion as the other. Whereas, if
their sympathies were equally balanced towards all mankind—which is,
| I fear, as yet but an angelic and Utopian idea—men, like the good
angels, would not even take sides. These rousings of the populace are
generally a matter of feeling, and thoroughly spiritual; and we know, if
the doctors do not, that spirits, for the most part, are even more excit¬
able than we are, and have a finger in everything human. Much of the
i wisdom and the unwisdom in which the Times leads the way is, I doubt
not, ghostly. So ghosts lead men and not men ghosts, because unseen
| forces are always stronger than those that are seen. This is my answer
1 to the Times. But any experienced medium could give a hundred proofs
| that real ghost stories do not and cannot “ bear the trade mark of
human origin,” and the critic aforesaid may know this truth as well as
I I do, though he may not acknowledged; for, if ghosts bear the trade
j mark of their human origin, why should one have made its appearance
i in the form of a dove ? Is the critic prepared to deny it? Was that
I dove of human origin ? He must be a medium, or at least a Spiritualist,
if he would try to prove it. I should like to know his opinion on this
I point; and above all I should like that he should unexpectedly one day
| find himself in dead men’s shoes; by which I mean a medium speaking
[ | spiritually and wisely as the advanced spirits would make him speak.
  Scrutator.
A POWERFUL SEANCE IN SWANSEA.
1; Sir,—On Saturday night last a dark seance, under very strict test con-
I ditions, was held at the Sailor’s Home, Swansea, in which Mr. Willie
i j Eglinton acted as medium. The apartment in which it was held was of
j*| an ordinary dining-room character, roomy and lofty; the circle was an
II extremely large one, numbering in all eighteen sitters, composed prin-
11 cipally of earnest investigators, with a very few Spirituahsts.
11 After attempting for about an hour to gain the necessary harmony, a
I j slight change was made amongst the sitters, which resulted in the
I j writer being placed on the right side of the medium; this change had the
[j desired effect, and we were then presented with wonderful physical
I! manifestations, superior to what I should imagine to be obtained at the
I i seances of less popular mediums. The manifestations consisted of, the
II chairs of three of the sitters, together with that of the medium, being
jl taken from under them, and placed in front of them on the table. We
i! saw beautiful lights, having all the appearance of miniature electric
i flashes. There was floating in the air a musical box, weighing seven
j pounds, and at the same time it played changing airs—stopping, going
j on, giving a single note, increasing rapidity, and vice versa, each of
| these movements being in response to requests made by the different
| sitters. This part of the phenomena, I may say, struck the minds of
| several as being of a most convincing nature. All the circle, with but
I one exception, felt numerous spirit touches on their hands, heads, and
j faces. One gentleman had some paper which had been placed on the
I table for spirit writing, forced into his mouth by a spirit finger, which
| he took the opportunity of biting; we afterwards learnt it happened to
I be the finger of Joey, who very soon showed his displeasure at such an
j act by handling the musical box and other articles in so rough a manner
i as to cause the medium to feel a little anxiety for their safety, and to
| beg him to “ play” a little lighter.
| The same gentleman had a pair of spectacles, which were hanging by
i a string from around his neck, placed very nicely over his nose. The
| next act was the removal of a box of matches by the spirits from his
{! pocket to his hands. The writer, also, was an object of the spirits’
li notice, for, at one time, after having had his chair taken away from him
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 20, 1876.
and, consequently, being made to stand, he felt a hand trying to get
into his coat pocket; next he felt two hands roughly attempting to force
paper down his back; but, after a few seconds, the paper and hands
passed away. Several other manifestations took place, all of which
were either convincing or mystifying.
Of course, we had the usual chat with our medium’s controls; but
that I shall not repeat, for, in my opinion, to investigators it seldom is
convincing, although oftentimes amusing, as in this particular case.
After being informed that our medium’s power was exhausted, we
lighted the gas, and examined the papers that had been placed for direct
writing, and were at the commencement of the sitting perfectly clear of
words or any other kind of marks, but now one sheet had the following
words written thereon—“God bless you,” and another, “Joey”; and
a third (which was very remarkable) contained the initials “D. G.”
These happened to be the initials of the gentleman opposite whom the
sheet was found, but they were not in his style of handwriting.
Although the seance was of rather short duration, it gave great
satisfaction, and a few of the circle hope at some future time to invite
Mr. Eglinton to come amongst them again. P. S.
Swansea, Oct. 5th, 1876.  
IMITATIONS OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Sm,—As Mr. Maskelyne has found “ time and inclination ” to address
another of his misleading letters to you about my challenge to him,
please kindly allow me again to set him and the public right.
One point he is right about. I certainly “never meant to risk a
thousand pounds.” I knew, almost as well as Mr. Maskelyne seems to
do, that they were perfectly safe, so long as I adhered to the condition,
which he finds so “ absurd,” of requiring him to perform his imitations
of spiritual manifestations under the same circumstances as those under
which the identical manifestations which he imitates should previously
occur through my medium.
I might fairly decline to answer his question as to why I don’t “ trot
out ” my medium, until he answers mine, which is: Why should I trot
him out ? But I prefer to answer at once, as follows: 1st, because I
neither have, nor ever pretended to have, “ a medium with a speciality,"
if by that Mr. Maskelyne means a medium for some manifestations
difierent from those which he pretends to imitate every day; 2nd,
because, if I had one, trotting him out in the way proposed would not
in any way serve the object I have in view, which is to “ let the public
see ” what Mr. Maskelyne is. (For this purpose it would be difficult
to find a medium whose powers should be insufficient, be it a Davenport,
a Fay, or a Home.)
I think it is quite true that Mr. Maskelyne has, as he claims, given
some Spiritualists useful lessons in imposture.
As regards his last paragraph, the question is not, “ How does Mr.
Maskelyne perform his tricks ? ”—which is a matter of quite secondary
importance and interest—but, “ Is he justified in stating, as he does,
that the manifestations of mediums are produced by the same means,
and that those means are trickery ? ” A. Joy.
Penzance, 22nd Sept., 1876.  
THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
Sir,—-This is why I think rhythm more important in music than tune
or tone—I, upon my methods, am not aiming at producing solo singers
or “ stars”-—I am aiming at enabling all classes to find their amuse¬
ment together in harmony. To know how to amuse and occupy oneself
is a science in itself. We all know how'much we like to hear the sound
of our own voice, and I have often thought how queer it is so few people
in the world know how to use it. A child will stand and scream un¬
earthly sounds with glee, and the louder it screams the more it enjoys
itself. I often allow all the children to amuse themselves by out-
screaining each other. No cage of macaws ever was so noisy! They
seem to find some ecstatic sensation of pleasure in their screeches and
shrieks; unless I invented something to change the subject, I believe
that, once encouraged, the children would screech till they were hoarse !
and even then I believe they would continue to make some species of
noise till they were incapacitated from uttering a sound. Some children
are really born without what people call “voices,” and their larynx must
be constructed in such a manner that they cough very much if they try
to scream in imitation of others. So, as I concluded, that, if there was
something in a child’s throat which made him cough when he wished
to enjoy himself in company with others by shrieking, he would cough
when he attempted to sing loud, I encouraged one particular child
(whose case I am quoting) to scream and cough, to cough and scream,
till at last the power of screaming had succeeded in vanquishing what¬
ever it was in the construction of his throat which prevented him
screaming. Although he will never have the extraordinary power
and tone of voice most of the others possess, he sings quite
as well as any of the others, and will have a more pene¬
trating voice than singers of the present day have. He will modu¬
late, enunciate, and sing in as good tune as the others. If he had
not stumbled upon me, he would have been one of those people who
think, when they are grown up, that they were born “ without voice,
ear, or anything.” He would have lisped, stammered; he would have
been unable to pronounce the R. “ Red ribbon ” would have sounded
like “ Wed Wibbon,” and so forth. The whole construction of mouth
and palate appeared very defective.
After nearly two years under my roof all defects had completely dis¬
appeared. The boy is about four years old. Let us suppose, however,
that it were possible a singing voice could not be trained; if a child be
trained to speak and intone in exact rhythm, it could always help in
chorus. The great charm of chorus singing is the clearness and same¬
ness of enunciation. This is at present unattainable, for this reason,
that although there are plenty of chorus singers with excellent voices,
they all pronounce so differently, that the alrocious pronunciation com¬
pletely drowns the little good there may be among the mass. The word
“ To\tn,” for instance. It is often pronounced as “ Torn,” with the
1“ n ” of course inaudible! That is the usual way. It does not occur
to singers that the word “ Town ” is in reality two syllables, divisible
| thus—“ Tah-oon.’> Another way chorus singers have of pronouncing
“Town” is “ Teighoon" with a sharp and distinct twang on the first
| syllable.
If, therefore, a child is trained to pronounce speaking words in rhythm,
| and that it were to make use of a low-pitched note in the voice, even if
| it had no tune and no “vocal” tone, it would effectually help the
I “ nerve ” and “ sinew ” of choral singing.’ Drums have no notes, no
| scale, but how indispensable are they in orchestra. So in singing we
| might have many kinds of ways of chiselling effects, and many more
| than those afforded by the instruments of the orchestra. Violins and
| other stringed instruments all must commence with one single sound of
the bow. That is the only consonant they possess ; and are only required
i in certain vigorous passages, otherwise the attack should be undetected,
and must commence (as it were) on a soft vowel. ■ It is only by an
aural sound I could give any one any idea of what I mean by soft and
harsh vowels. To attempt to describe these sounds in writing would be
I impossible to me. I have no anatomical notion of the throat; I teach
and act completely by instinct and by my gift of causality. To please
phrenologists I take the opportunity of saying that the bumps of
j causality are the only ones I have strikingly developed, that they almost
■ hurt my forehead at times, and, though it savours of some kind of con¬
nection with a certain old gentleman, I feel sometimes as if little horns
| would some day sprout there ! Georgina "Weldon.
| Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, W.C.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA. .
By the mail which arrived last Monday, files of papers
■ from Cape Town to Sept. 15 th have been received. Warm
I discussions are taking place in the local newspapers on the
subject of Spiritualism. A writer in the Cape Daily
News speaks highly of Dr. Slade from personal knowledge.
A correspondent of the Cape Times says :—
2 One clever medical gentleman told me that if there
were any truth about the matter it could only be the
work of devils, or of spirits who would deceive, were it
possible, even the elect. Now, sir, I am somewhat of a
Calvinist, but I allow liberty of opinion and action to all.
It struck me forcibly that if the devil could wield so mighty
a power, other and brighter intelligences could not be
debarred from the exercise of similar power and influence ;
and, as the good book itself decidedly confirms this theory,
I determined to investigate for myself. With this view
I attended a few sittings while in Cape Town, and while
there saw quite enough and heard enough to make me feel
very shaky concerning my own scepticism. On my return
to Port Elizabeth, I at once commenced a series of sittings
at my own family circle; the result is that several dear
spirit friends have communicated with us, and by their agency
placed the fact of spirit communion beyond doubt so far as
we are concerned; and I would earnestly advise any real truth-
seeker to adopt a similar course of investigation. We have
spirit-writing, partial materialisation, inspirational addresses,
thought-reading, symbolic representations, and spirit-lights
The most remarkable of all is the power our medium has ot
thought-reading and spirit description, one illustration oi
which may suffice. A friend called in at mid-day. The
medium saw at once that he was attended by two spirits, a
male and female ; both were most accurately described, and
in the most minute detail; he then in most unbounded
astonishment admitted the absolute truth of each descrip¬
tion. The attendant spirit friends were those of his father
and mother. The medium then stated that the latter had
passed away thirty-seven years ago, the former fourteen
years and three-quarters, a fact which was verified ; the
house of the friend’s early days was then vividly described,
also, every masonic emblem on the apron of the spirit
father—and certified to be correct in every particular. Now,
sir, the medium is not a mason, and knows nothing of the
craft, much less its emblems; therefore, I feel quite satisfied
there is neither humbug nor unconscious cerebation. The
friend has since sat with us and met a dear little spirit child
of his. We have also a lady friend who has joined our
circle, whose rank, position, and education are above re¬
proach, and so thoroughly satisfied is she, that she never
misses one opportunity of sitting with us. The communi¬
cations to her have been marked and wonderful, recapitulat¬
ing the early scenes of her life with exactitude; her spirit
friends too have appeared, and the tests were admitted to be
pre-eminently faithful, some of the communications being
given in pure French, of whicji the medium knows com¬
paratively nothing.”
Oct. 20, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
143
STRONG PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN MANCHESTER.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
A powerful display of unexpected manifestations here,
on the 8th of October, has completely routed a line of
sceptics who desired to measure swords with the defenders
of our cause. On my being asked to draw up a report of
them, the foremost sceptics unanimously volunteered to put
their names as witnesses of what occurred, a step which
overtook me with surprise, considering the state of prejudice
people here have been in because of misrepresentations. We,
about a dozen, which number increased later on, assembled
in a large private room, without thinking at all of having a
seance. After a time, Mr. Donoe, a friend of mine, came
in with a gentleman, Mr. Swallow, from Manchester, whom
he introduced as a powerful private medium, who in London
had. had several remarkable private stances. His kind offer
to try at once for manifestations was accepted.
We joined hands round a heavy circular table, after
turning down the gas; the upper part of the windows, how¬
ever, admitted enough light to let us see faint outlines of the
table and surroundings. I sat with my back against the
billiard-table, and held the left hand of Mr. Swallow, after
expressing my desire to fill this place. The gentleman at
my left, Mr. Westbury, desired an explanation of my wishing *
that seat; I calmed him with my word of honour not to
assist in any kind of fraud, and, in the meantime, encouraged
him to take no notice of what might transpire in my neigh¬
bourhood. No sooner was the circle formed than the table
began to shift and tilt vigorously, causing laughter, more or
less suppressed, evidently resulting from a mental fight
between belief and suspicion. Heavy raps all round were
like stones thrown into the waves of prevalent scepticism.
Something dropped on the table. It was a piece of chalk
from the billiard-table. Then a hat came and landed on one
of the sitters. Confusion, the result of the sudden influx of
perplexity, now began. “ Who did it ? ”—u Who touched
me? ” the usual exclamations of beginners in this kind of
work. Suddenly my sceptical gentleman to my left found a
hat on his head; but our attention was soon turned in
another direction.
Mr. Swallow sank, deeply entranced, to the floor, and Mr.
Donoe, his neighbour, was greatly alarmed, having never
seen the like before. “ Oh, he is dead!” he cried, with
choking voice—u Oh, strike a light!” “Never mind,” I
said; “it will be all right. Shall I light up?” A tre¬
mendous “ No” was rapped immediately. The table then
heaved violently, raps came with deafening power. Mr.
Donoe was heard to groan, and a faint “ Oh, oh, don’t!”
was followed by his dropping down too. A signal for
“ light” we at once responded to, and there lay the two
gentlemen like corpses, their arms, with closed hands,
through the railing of the chair. It was the remarkable
chair test, the chair having been threaded on without the
disjoining of their hands, and the group of flabbergasted
gentlemen around this scene was picturesque and suggestive.
The light being put out, there was a shuffling noise, and on
relighting the chair was removed. Scarcely had the dis- j
entranced gentlemen resumed their seats when my sceptic
to the left began violently shaking, and with a peculiar
shriek went down under the billiard-table. I never parted
with his hand. “ What are you doing with me ? They
(who ?) are pulling my coat. Oh, I say, strike a light!”
and surely there was his coat nearly pulled off. “ Oh dear
me, sir,” he asked, like a terrified child, “ what does this
mean? Is it dangerous? I never ” “Be at ease,” I
replied; “you are only a medium, that’s all.” But our
friend, I am grieved to say, soon quitted the field, having
been perfectly frightened.
The tumult attracted several guests from the ground floor.
Among them I noticed a German, Herr Stade, who has
sometimes expressed himself sharply and bitterly against
Spiritualism, so I did not much like his presence. I thought
that his tone of mind would disturb the flow of power.
Pointing out the disadvantages of having outsiders, I invited
him to join our chain of hands, and soon it became clear
that we had another medium in our midst. Something fell
on the table. It was his pocket-knife. But I was not over¬
quick in believing as genuine anything that took place near
I! him; and when I plainly saw an arm moving near his person ;
when a hat was put on his head, I requested him to stop
I that kind of joke. “ You have put the hat on yourself,” I
said, with the certainty of a judge, and honestly indignant.
“ I beg your pardon, Mr. Reimers, you are wrong; I had
I nothing to do with it, as far as I know.” At the same time
the gentleman to his left assured me that he never ceased
I holding his hand. Now I understood that I had seen a
[ “ materialised” hand and arm. I observed several times, in
I the increasing moonlight, similar rapidly moving hands
| throwing and carrying things. Now began a perfect un-
| fettering of power with which my pen cannot hold pace.
| Herr Stade, having constantly received proofs of the
i presence of invisibles, suddenly whispered, “• Oh, hush,
hush, hush!” then dropped on the floor, and after
| striking a match, there we found him, deeply entranced,
| with his hand firmly in that of his neighbour, who looked
j fairly bewildered at seeing the chair hanging on his arm !
He had never before been at a seance, and had been totally
sceptical up to this point, where he probably arrived at a
change of opinion. After recovering his normal state, Herr
I Stade resumed his seat, and the “ baptism of mediumship ”
j came upon Mr. Donoe, "who was carefully landed on the floor,
| after the chair had been pulled from under him, his neigh¬
bour to the right all the time exclaiming, “ Oh ! let go my
j hand, you squeeze it horribly.” On striking the light, the
| chair was hanging on that very arm. This third chair test
| was the most convincing of all, for the gentleman had never
| left his seat, and all doubt was further stamped out, when,
| although with concentrated attention he held on to his
| neighbour’s hand with a vengeance, the chair was in a few
| seconds found detached again. Loud raps on the distant legs
| of the billiard-table and floor were scarcely appreciated in
the constant shower of manifestations.
I now proposed to our chairman, Mr. Boysdon, that he
| should sit on the table to keep it quiet with his eighteen to
| twenty stone weight. In order, I suppose, to restore his
hold upon the now shaky ground of scepticism, he seized his
| pipe to secure one of the known realities of this world, and in
I cheerful humour took his seat on the table, which then tilted
f and jumped with renewed pleasure as in glee. After shak-
! ing the rider soundly, we heard a kind of groan, and the new
! medium was found stretched out in a profound trance, the
| pipe gracefully in his hand, his eyes closed. After darkening
| the room again his legs raised themselves at right angles to
| his body, a feat he could not accomplish in his normal state,
j without a strict Banting course of several months. His re-
| turn to consciousness was marked too with that peculiar ex-
| pression of feature betraying the influence of something
j strange. The scene at each relighting was indescribable. A
| couple of mediums entranced, others bending down towards
] them like figures on a little battle-field.
Lastly, I requested the spirits to restore the medium, and
j to close the seance. A remarkable discovery of the secret
] doings of the spirits was then made. I never saw anything
| like it before. One missed his watch, the other his pocket-
] book. Mr. Swallow had Mr. Donoe’s overcoat on; Mr.
( Donoe that of Mr. Swallow. He missed his diamond ring.
| It was on the finger of another gentleman, firmly and tightly
| attached to the finger. In searching for the two missing
| watches, we discovered them hanging by their chains on
| the lamps of the billiard table, carefully hooked. I had in
my pockets a glass tumbler and three billiard balls. There
I was much laughing, a general exchange of sundry articles
j found here and there. Herr Stade, who sat opposite to
| Mr. Swallow, produced the pocket-book of Miv Swallow
j out of his (Herr Stade’s) pocket; among its contents ;m
j accepted bill of £350 was discovered, for which no ownpr
I came forward at the time. Mr. Donoe missed two cigiir
| cases, one of which was discovered minus cigars, the other
| in the hall down stairs, in a corner, where nobody thought
j of finding it. A cigar of a relative bulk to a 81-ton gun,
j in comparison with the usual size, was in that case, but
i nobody present had the remotest idea to whom it belonged.
In conclusion, I may state that this stance has probably
done more to create a wide-spread interest here than many
others more beautiful and harmonious. It has exploded a
rock of scepticism.
| I have received the following letters about the seance;—
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 20, 1876.
“ 26, Old Millgate, Manchester, Oct. 12th, 1876.
“ Mr. Reimers, Dear Sir,—I cannot possibly resist the temptation
of writing to you (whether it is the influence of a spirit acting upon me
or not I cannot say, but write I must), to express my great surprise at
the effects I felt at the seance last Saturday evening. It was the first I
was ever present at, but I hope it will not be the last. I can well under¬
stand sceptics not believing in it, but I would say ‘ let them attend
one.’ I was sitting beside you with my hands firm upon the table,
when all at once I felt myself drawn under the billiard table, and my coat
being pulled off my back; but for the turning on of the gas it would have
been taken off. Altogether it is something marvellous, and I only wish
you would enlighten me upon the subject, for I am so hard of belief that
I must have some further proof. Hoping you will give me the oppor¬
tunity of attending another seance, I remain, yours respectfully,
P, Westbury.
To the Editor of ff The Spiritualist”
Sir,—Being casually the other evening at a leading club here of
which I am a member, I wish to endorse other evidence which I under¬
stand you are in possession of as to the phenomena which then occurred,
and which I fancy, indeed, think, are partly due to my mediumistic
powers. I may further state that within the last few days I have been
present in London at a similar seance, and the same manifestations were
apparent. A. H. Swallow.
Parkfield, Rusholme, Manchester.
P.S.—I may refer you to Mr. W. Cook, 99, Regent-street, or Mr.
Campbell, 7, Russell-square, W.C.
To the Editor of(( The Spiritualist."
Sir,—With regard to the seance on the 8th, as far as I know I did
not loose the hand of Mr. Donoe when the chair was put on and off
his arm. J. Hall.
1, Beach-street, Manchester, June 15th.
One of our Manchester papers, the Free Lance, has been
moved to burlesque the above seance by describing a A Dark
Seance at the D’you-see Club, by a True Believer,” as fol¬
lows :—
I am a Spiritualist. I am also a member of the D’You See Club.
Why do you laugh ? Do you perceive any especial affinity between
spirits and the institution in question ? Ah, you mean with hot water
and sugar. My friend, let us be serious. What I am about to relate
to you are facts.
They occurred only so recently as Saturday night last. We had a
dark seance. ’Twas I who suggested it. I have been much exercised
lately by the mysterious communications addressed to an ungrateful,
sceptical world through the medium of Dr. Slade and his wonderful
slate. I have been to London and had a guinea’s worth. I inquired
of the spirit in attendance what was good for an ecstatic imagination.
He replied, “Gin and water, and have your head pumped on three
times a day.” I tried the former on Saturday night at the club, which
numbers amongst its members, I regret to say, many scoffers. By-
and-bye I overheard fragments of a subdued conversation between two
gentlemen present. They were discussing my beautiful and charmingly
indefinite religion. I listened. They, too, were believers. I could
contain myself no longer.
“ Are you a Spiritualist, sir ? ” I inquired of him who had taken
the principal part in the conversation.
“ I am, sir,’’ he replied gravely. “ And my friend here is a medium;
ain’t you, Jack ? ”
“ Just so,” replied the gifted John.
H Gentlemen,” I exclaimed, enraptured at my own idea, “let us have
a seance.”
“ Agreed,” replied Jack. “ Waiter, another Scotch whiskey cold.”
We sat round the table ; believers, scoffers, and all. The latter
were to hear a convincing proof of the truth of Spiritualism before the
seance was over. The lights were turned down, and a profound silence
reigned. Then the medium spoke.
“Is there any spirit present?” he demanded, in a voice rendered
tremulous and impressive by the whiskey and water.
The response was in the affirmative.
“ Will the spirit be good enough to give a manifestation ? ” inquired
the medium. The spirit was good enough, and—Oh! happiness!
selected me to manifest upon. In a twinkling it had knocked my hat
over my eyes, and tied my legs to the chair. Gould any thing be more
conclusive ?
The lights were turned up, and I could see (when my eyes had
been extricated from the interior of my hat) that the scoffers were
staggered.
Soon afterwards it was my turn to be staggered. The lights were
again turned down, and another manifestation invited. Then I felt a
blow on my left ear that knocked me off my chair.
The spirits were now actively at work. There was scuffling all
round the table ; scuffling and demoniac laughter, which curdled my
blood to hear: Eviwaite, who draws the scale at eighteen stones, was
lifted up bodily and thrown on the chandelier, alighting on top of me
with great force. A sovereign which I had in my right hand waist¬
coat pocket was changed into a half-crown ; my cigar case was de¬
posited at the far end of the room, under the billiard table, the
medium’s whiskey was poured down the small of my back, and my
pocket-book was by some mysterious force abstracted from my breast
pocket and deposited under a spittoon. When it came to be examined
I found that it was bereft of several banknotes, for which tailors’ bills
were substituted, the numbers of which are known and payment
stopped. The notes and sovereign were afterwards found in the
medium’s iriend’s left boot, and the half-crown proved to be a bad
| jj one. On getting home I found some cold tapioca pudding in my coat-
| tail pocket, and an obsolete order for two to the dress circle of the
| ?f Royal, stuck into the band of my hat.
ju More manifestations are expected at the D’You-See, and I am glad
j)! to say that nearly all the scoffers are now converted.
j/j More recently I have been present at another stance,
i|| which was a failure, because of the inharmonious conditions.
Hj Ducie-avonue, Manchester.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING AT MALVERN,
j ! The Malvern News, of Oct. 14th, contains a report, two
| | and a half columns long, of seances with Mr. Eglinton, also
I i some comments on the Slade prosecution. The reporter
| | narrates how all the members of the circle held each other’s
| | hands in the dark, and describes the pranks played by a
| j spirit, who called himself u Joey ” :—
u The musical box had been wound up twice by the sitters,
| | and had run itself down, when, after a short time, Joey came,
jf& saying he wanted some more music, and proceeding to wind
| I, it up. After playing for some minutes it was lifted up and
| ! carried about the room, and placed on the head of thegentle-
| | man who held the medium’s right hand. While that was
H| being done he was asked if he held the right hand of Mr.
I! Eglinton, and he assured the sitters that he did. The box
I j was then placed on the table. The tambourines were
j ) lifted and heads struck with them, and at last so great was
| ! the force that the parchment of each was broken, and the
| j instruments left on the heads of the gentlemen. Presently
| I these were removed and placed on other heads. A soft
|j| delicate hand how touched each sitter on the head, face,
| | arms, hands; and for fully two minutes one was pulling
i(.| about our hair and beard. A voice said, i I have come to
| l help you to-night with the physical manifestations—they are
Ijl just going to begin, but don’t be alarmed.’ Thereupon a
IS shout was heard, ‘My chair is gone!’ and from the other
ijjj side, f And so is mine! ’ The circle was yet complete, and
|j| the medium was levitated till his feet were above the
! | shoulders of his holders, one exclaiming, ‘He’s kicked me
| | in the eye ! ’ The sofa was turned on its side, three chairs
|j| placed one on the other, the table tilted, drawn away; a large
| | print, in frame and glazed, was unhung from the wall, and
ijl gently placed, glass downwards, on the table. All this time
I I the medium was groaning; when Joey asked for a light.
| | This being instantly obtained, Mr. Eglinton was stand-
|P ing on his feet, but perfectly insensible, still being held
|j| by each hand. In a couple of minutes he came round, and
lj| saw the confusion made in the room. In the tilting of the
| | table everything fell off, among the articles being the
i jl musical box, after whose safety he anxiously asked, and
| |. would not be satisfied till he had set it in play. He found
i jl it was unhurt. After a short time the circle was re-formed,
| | and instructions given by Joey what was to be done next.
|j| He said they would not be able to materialize that night, but
|j| Mr. Eglinton’s coat sleeves, at the wrist, were to be sewn
| | together behind his back, and his coat sewn up in front.
|1 He was to sit in the cabinet with his knees exposed to view,
ijl on which were to be placed a book, bell, and writing
| | materials. This was done, and some writing executed on
I the paper. The bell was rung and thrown on the floor.
| I The book was then opened, and each sitter told to put a hand
|h between the curtains. They were then touched by a hand,
| | squeezed, or pinched, a hearty shake being bestowed on one
j young lady. At Joey’s request the curtains were held back,
lj| the book being fully exposed to view, and so exhibited it was
| opened and shut several times without anything visibly
touching it. When Mr. Eglinton came out of the cabinet,
II the sewing was intact, as he entered. And thus closed the
| fourth seance.” ' 
Suicide.—Sometimes the motive for suicide verges on the ridiculous,
as in the case of Diedrich Braunlieben, 62 years of age, and old enough
to have known better. This precious fool cuts his venerable throat
because his second wife refused to go with him and assist him paying his
respects to the grave of his first wife. The only creditable feature of
the affair is that he had the good taste to cut his own throat, instead of
getting mad with the second Mrs. Braunlieben and cutting hers.-—
Chicago 'Tribune.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS. .
A wrapper with .a halfpenny stamp on it and the Exeter post-mark, has come
to hand through the Post-Office’without contents.
Oct. 20, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
-Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Vs. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes-
' sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, I6s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
■WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with tbe early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitiens,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. Ring. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ahiuty, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens ■ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as ihe visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during tbe whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. I2s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s. .
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. t
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS | OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady.. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORV
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10*
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s.
Nature’s Divine Revelations
"he Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
II.
HI.
IV. „ .
- v. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
7 8
7 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriaMUAiisT Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Shn-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese -by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
- by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiskc, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. ,. j> 2 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . ,.3 6
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . • . . , is
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10'
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1, Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas P.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angeli. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet. ‘ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. Sd-
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the medium ship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD' TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R, T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
Balism, .obtainable ; oi"W. H. Harrison," Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. •
[For purpose? of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented Oh the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. bht the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.] r
'* • Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
i >oHms from the inner lire; By
I - LIZZIE- DOTEN^Tenth edition.'-” This volume op6ns
with the Wonderful experiences (of .the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trttnce jhedihm and public speaker. Her
platform.Jabours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence -far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the- instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of* the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhytlynic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given ;
to the world. The peculiar influence which each'.spirit exer-|
cised over the medium is stated; and "the ‘unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. -The book is a .valuable addition to thej
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ’ ennobling
tendencies.;—Boston, -U.B.: Colby'and Eich. • London'
Office.
• Published.at 7s. Gd. g Eeduced to 4s. jr ,
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with ekpefiments.,aid obser^
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena,
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by .
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the .Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Palis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement r-of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.:
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Eugby. that-he
said;—“I should like to hear something fresh.k’»out an*mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curij»ity. What1
our fathers have done still leaves an enornfous A^ai for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies ytfthHeg&Ir know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves w .opera-,
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinkiv . a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other poinis there is
room’for infinite discovery, to say nothing of . the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Eeduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NNALI BELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Bivista Psicologica di Nicefdfd Filalete.’ Published
on the 15th of every month, at! Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino. No. 23.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. - Published- by the Saciiti
Anonyms, 7. Bue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE EOR
MEDIUMS AND FOE EYOOATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kabdec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Reflexionen aus: der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Becord of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications 'given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. ] Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Braneit Office.
Another Work on Occiilt Spiritism,
By the Author of -
- S “ A E T M AG I 0 . ”
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
Author of Art Magic, entitled
GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Besearches into the Mystebihs of Occult Spiritism.
Illustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &C., &0.
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinge Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and commenced in the Western Star some
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land ” papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another book from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
know more about its author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s.' Orders may be sent to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C,
THE SPIRITUAL I S,T.
EWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.—Mr. T. P. Barkas,
F.G.S., will deliver a LECTURE in the Hall of this
Society, on Monday, October 23rd, at 7.30 p.m. Subject, “ The
British Association, Dr. Slade, and Original Researches in
Psychology.” Relevant questions invited. An invitation to
all. Admission Free. Collection to defray, expenses.
Leigh spiritualists5, association
MEETING BOOM.—Any books ind pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by, George F. Turner,
Brown-street,’’ Leigh, Lancashire.
D R. S L A D E?..
“ THE SPIMTUALLST’’ OF- Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE. EJIDENCE. ON BOTH SIDES, j
HIGH was given for and against Dr.‘Slade
in the Times newspaper. - Ifccontains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professoruiankester, F.E.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin;,Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. At Clarke; Mr. A. B. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E. • Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison;' Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade’.—2j’d.',-post free..
W; H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
NEW AYORKS QF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.;
. , i .: ' ; $ ta PUBLISHED BY THE
m MUSIC ; ANfr V-ART ' 'ASSOCIATION,.
^ > ’39, Great Marlborough, Street. ’1 » I
rbN (THE SEA;,OF,;GALILEE. ; Arranged .by E. Tinel as a
g ■.-.. Pianoforte-.Duet and-Vo.cal Solo. Price 6s. -
LA .YENEZIANA. 1 Pianoforte. Solo, 4s.
•FETE’ DE JUfTTER.- Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.;
JOAN OF ABC. French Vocal ,Score, 10s.
.BALLAD OF THE PAGE,- English and French words,:4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin-’
■ cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her1
t Majesty the'Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and/.!2’\pi8c'e‘2's. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration ofjDavid Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hathrMy Heart, 4s.
Chidiook Tichborne, -4sj> j
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
'made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION/
MISS TBEHEENE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
1 by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4st • >■
ALFRED RAW LINGS .—Lullaby, words by iEradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. . Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. ( Part-soiig,i
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
• Bafcarola,-4s'. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4S. Mazurka, 4s.
F..CLAY.—Enid’s tong. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s.- Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAM1LT0N_CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
t ’ arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices) a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody. ]
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
■ benefit gf Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on. application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATIONj
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure donaestic comforts
without 'the inconvehience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause; led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists. ■ w •■■ ■
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
By Royal Letters Patent. ■
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.- ■
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
flhe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery‘as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
.Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse,- 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Oct. 20, 1876.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
1 MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.O.S.,
Begs to announce.that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nejson-street, NOwcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of-eSch week, commencing shortly. *
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.30.'
^LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will presi^eA
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved in raisingsthe
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.!’ -
LECTURE II.—Thos. Foster, JEsq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
r preside. ! Subject—“.Bnewmatics ^or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with'remarks on the Navi*
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
, Subject-^11 The,Structure and Functions of, the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.’!...
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.’’ md .
LECTURE y.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside.’ Subject—
“Heat: its History and Philosophy."u-i.—
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about, one hour each,' and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant’’ questions will • be
answeted.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams’ a’ndjnodels.
- - -Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, 'and Mr. Blake,'49, Grainger-street. Front Seat’s/is. 6d,
’ the tfoUVse V’EAresferved’Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
. MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION. DF
IN OUTRE RS vINTO . SPI RITUAL IS M»
' quebe6 11 haLl) ■ '' '
. 25, Great Quebec Street, Marylebone Road.
. . October 5th, 1876.
At the .Committee Meeting of the above Association, held in
their Hall on Thursday, the 5th inst., it was proposed, “ That
at the next quarterly meeting of the Association to be held bn
Sunday, November the 26th,’ a Gonfbrence of- metropolitan
societies be convened for the purpose of co-operation and
expressing,fraternal greetings.” In order that the proceedings
may he conducted in a systematic manner, a meeting will be
held on Thursday, the 19th inst., ftt the;above hall, at 7 p,in.
for 8 pm. All Spiritualists interested are cordially invitedVo
be present; those unable to do so by kindly communicating
with the secretaries their opinion will he put before the
meeting.
; W. O. DRAKE,- & G. F. TILBY, Hon. Secs.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM/
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(barrister-.at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
>■ of the, Associixtim for .Vie Reform grvi Codification of.
‘ the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.' *
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
, Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afleeting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to, investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seance*-are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The ias< Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
. In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members 'of the
Association have the privilege of attending the pulMc seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of . which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of. utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
■ subjects; All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of scawces,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .-—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving * of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can bqcome
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bqte-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purjpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assiSt him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very littlo
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism.- Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
EAST LONDON SPIRITU AL MEETINGS.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’u
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Cfiurch-streetj Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances’. &a.: 'Sundays’, Healing, at li.'a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m.. Tuesday, <Se«tece at' 8 p.m.';-] s.’ Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, IS. Satutday,‘Development Class at
g p.m.; subscribers only. -
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ay«
Maria-lano, London, E.C,
