RECORD OF THE PROQF{E££ OF THE JSCIEJsfCE AND ETHIC3 OF FPI^ITUAEI£M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 50.—(Vol. ill.—No. 11.) LONDON: APRIL 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
aTontentg*
Organisation among Spiritualists   ... 162
Painless Surgical Operations in the Mesmeric Sleep—Five Mesmeric
Operations; An Amputation of the Thigh in the Mesmeric Trance;
Mesmerism as a Soother of Pain     ... v. 162
Spiritualism in Australia ...■ ... ... ...     ... 167
Lectures on Spiritualism at the Crystal Palace  368
Spiritualism in Marylebone     109
The London Anthropological Society    ...   ... 170
Marriage Customs in Morocco  171
A Ghost on a Railway Engine    371
Poetry—Inspirational Poetry; Love •  1     173
Correspondence—The Rev. J. Murray Spear; Mesmeric Phenomena;
Spirit Photographs; Spiritualism in the Provinces; Sapia Padalino’s
Case  .-. ...   ... 174
The Best book for Enquirers—The latest phenomena!
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
An account of the astounding phenomena of Spiritualism affording positive
proof by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; that Spiritualism is sanctioned by Scripture
and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens of com¬
munications received; extracts from its literature; advice to investigators;
addresses of mediums, and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; post free 38 stamps, or four copies for 10s. 6d. from Messrs.
Ireland & Co., publishers, Manchester, from whom copies of the table of
contents can also be had for distribution.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Dalston association of enouirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
0 Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 13, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NE^JV CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPSES COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frkderick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’-Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
: Chester.
William GimberGoodliffe, Accountant General, IndiaOffice, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bask
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57^, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred' upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head C>tfta.-BRO WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
‘ Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being furtlier descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of *F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Mam lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 15, 1873.
Cjxe
CHARaE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the' first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualise is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
OoiutESPONDENCB.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts -may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Ant I delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOR'EIGN. COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Itichestcr, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 33-3, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order.,- The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
Is one shilling.
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Foe a long time past a feeling has been growing
among Spiritualists that there should be a national
organisation, including, as nearly as possible, every¬
body interested in the movement throughout the United
Kingdom. At present there are none'but local associa¬
tions in London, and metropolitan Spiritualists are not
represented by any president or organised society. The
result is that much good work which might benefit the
movement is left unexecuted, and the Spiritualists in
this country have not yet adopted the most powerful
method of making the influence of the" movement felt
by the public at large. If a president and council were
elected, and funds began to flow in from individual mem¬
bers, a portion of the receipts might be regularly set aside
as a building fund, which in time would accumulate to
such an extent as to permit an edifice worthy of the
movement to be erected in London, to be used for the
good of Spiritualism; the remainder of the receipts
might be used from time to time for various purposes,
such as the establishment of public conferences like
those once held in Gower-street, and tjie remuneration
of lecturers who possess sufficient ability to be recog¬
nised by the association. Moreover, such an organisa¬
tion wmild have great offensive and defensive powers,
the former of which it is to be hoped would rarely have
to be wielded, and scarcely a week passes without some
events transpiring relating to which the want is felt of
a central controlling influence like that now proposed.
The general feeling is certainly ripe for such union,
and as circumstances are likely to make organisation a
fact, there may be no harm in considering in advance
the principles on which a national association should be
founded. Should a meeting be called to consider the
question, much time would be saved if somebody brought
forward a definite scheme, the various points in which,
with the amendments, might be voted for or against,
after careful and prolonged consideration before the day
of the first meeting. We have no intention to bring
forward any scheme, but suggest one merely for the
purpose of raising definite points for discussion in these
pages, so that after general opinions have been elicited,
those who may introduce an actual plan will have
some published opinions which may influence them in
drawing up the same. How would the following plan
do ?—
TITLE :—^HE INSTITUTION OF BRITISH SPIRITUALISTS.
Object.—To watch over the interests of Spiritualism in the
United Kingdom and the British Colonies, and to take such
action as may be deemed likely to best effect that object.
Membership.—Any Spiritualist may become a member on
payment of an annual subscription of not less than .
Donations may be made by well-wishers, whether they be
Spiritualists or not.
Constitution.—The constitution of the association, and
the method of electing the council and officers, to be considered
at the first meeting of the promoters of the step. The first
council to be self-elected, with power to add to its numbers,
but after the lapse of the first year to be elected by ballot.
Perhaps most of the following gentlemen might bq
willing to attend a preliminary meeting to consider the
desirability of organising:—Dr. J. M. Gully, Messrs.
C. F. Yarley, A. R. Wallace, J. C. Luxmoore, James
Wason, Benjamin Coleman, Charles Blackburn, Enmore
Jones, Andrew Leighton, H. D. Jencken, N. F. Dawe,
J. T. Taylor, William White, S. C. Hall, C. W. Pearce,
William Tebb, T. Everitt, Morell Theobald, and other
trusted workers,, The Countess of Caithness,Mrs. De Mor¬
gan, Mrs. L. M. Gregory, and other ladies might be invited
to aid. Perhaps an honorary secretary should be
appointed in every great provincial town to represent
the national association when necessary, so that the
local societies shall have a recognised officer of the
institution near them, to communicate with when they
have any matters of sufficient importance to bring under
the notice of the central body; for instance, Mr. Wason
might perhaps be invited to occupy the post of honour at
Liverpool, Mr. Blackburn at Manchester, and so on.
If the ladies and gentlemen mentioned would be
willing to accept office, and if some association were
formed, there is no doubt that the benefit to the move¬
ment would be immense, although the association need
not necessarily be exactly the same as that which is
now suggested in order that our readers may have
some definite plan before them to consider.
PAINLESS SURGICAL OPERATIONS IN THE
MESMERIC SLEEP.*
BY JAMES ESDAILE, M.D.
Hooghly, where my first experiments were made,
being an obscure country station, I was compelled to
appear frequently before the public in the invidious
character of my own chronicler, or permit the import¬
ant facts that fell daily under my observation to die in
obscurity. I was soon saved this disagreeable task,
however, by the visitors of my hospitals coming for-
* Extracted from Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance, by James Esdaile,
M.D. London: BailUere and Co., 1852. The early experiments in Mes¬
merism were so misrepresented, and so withheld from the general public
through prejudice, that we make no apology for publishing these old ex-
-poriments, which are very useful as evidence of the beneficial influence of
mesmerism.
April 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
ward voluntarily in their own names to vouch for the
reality of what had- been reported by me. They were
gentlemen of all professions, and generally strangers
to me.
The following are only a few of the letters sent to
the newspapers by the visitors to my hospitals ; and I
take this opportunity to thank the gentlemen who have
done the public and myself the justice to declare man¬
fully what they saw.
Por the medical evidence, I beg leave to refer the
reader to Mesmerism as an Ancesthetic, &c., lately pub¬
lished.
To the Editor of “ The Englishman.”
“ Sir,—Being on a visit at this place, it was my in¬
tention to have been present at the hospital at Hooghly
on Monday next to witness "'some surgical operations by
Dr. Esdaile upon persons in a mesmeric trance, that
were to be, and I expect will be (with the exception of
the following cases), performed in the presence of seve¬
ral gentlemen from Calcutta. This morning I met Dr.
Esdaile, when our conversation turned upon the pro¬
posed proceedings of Monday next. He expressed
much regret that he should be unable to show us two
interesting cases which he had endeavoured to reserve
for the occasion: the one a man from whom he was to
have removed a tumour of about one hundred-weight,
the other was the amputation of a woman’s leg. His
disappointment arose from the following causes.
“ These two persons, with some others, had been
several days in a state of readiness for operating upon,
being under complete mesmeric influence. The man
either got tired of waiting day after day, or lost his re¬
solution and quitted the hospital: and the woman was
sinking; she had been attacked with fever, and had
become less susceptible to mesmeric influence. She
was this morning, however, to all appearance, in a per¬
fect trance, and he felt that he should be doing her a
great injustice to delay the operation any longer, as he
considered that her life would be endangered thereby;
he had therefore resolved upon amputating the limb at
once. I expressed a desire to be present, and accom¬
panied Rr. Esdaile to the hospital, and the following
are the facts of the case as I observed them:—
“ The woman was lying upon a charpoy (native cot),
and one of the assistants was leaning over her head,
mesmerising her. The charpoy was then removed and
placed opposite to a window.which was opened to admit
light. I then looked attentively at the patient who, to
all appearance, was in a most tranquil sleep.
“ Dr. Esdaile prepared for the operation, and I placed
myself so as both to see what the doctor did, and to
observe the countenance and movements (if any should
take place) of the patient. The leg was taken off a
little below the knee, and I was surprised at the small
quantity of blood that flowed from the wound, being
not more than two, or at the most three, tablespoonsful.
The thigh and knee from whence the leg had been
taken were, as well as every other part of her body,
perfectly motionless; and the only evidence that existed
that the doctor was not operating upon a corpse, was
the heaving of her chest in respiration. She was not
held, or tied down in any way, and during the whole
operation not the least movement or change in her
limbs, body, or countenance took place; she continued
in the same apparently easy repose as at first, and I
have no reason but to believe that she was at perfect
ease.
“ After the operation, Dr. Esdaile left her to awake
naturally, which she did in about a quarter of an hour.
As soon as she was awake, I observed the stump of her
leg begin to shake or quiver, as if convulsively, which
I had observed, as above stated, was not the case pre¬
viously.
“ The conversation that followed between the patient,
the doctor, and his assistants, was in Bengalee, and un¬
intelligible to myself; but was translated to me as it
proceeded. It was to the following effect:—That the
burning pain was gone from her anMe (the seat of the
disease for which the leg was amputated), and that she
now felt a sort of priclcly pain ; that she had had a good
and undisturbed sleep without dreams or pain; that
she was ready to have her leg amputated, whether the
doctor could get her sufficiently to sleep for the purpose
or not, as she vjas so desirous of recovering. Upon re¬
ceiving ocular demonstration that the operation had
been performed, her countenance expressed surprise
and pleasure; and, as if doubtful of the fact, I observed
her hand pass over the stump, apparently to test the
reality of what she saw. She then said that she lenew
not how it had been done.
“ Shortly afterwards I quitted the hospital, leaving
her apparently composed, and waving a punka over her
face.
“ Such are the simple facts of this case.—I am, sir,
your obedient servant, F. W. Simms, C.E.
“ Chinsurah, May 30th, 1846.”
FIVE MESMEEIC OPEEATIONS.
“ Being accidentally at Chinsurah, owing to the dan¬
gerous illness of a near relative, and having obtained
Dr. Esdaile’s kind permission, I proceeded on Monday
morning last to the Hooghly Emambarrah Hospital,
where I had been informed several surgical operations
would be performed on patients thrown artificially into
magnetic or mesmeric sleep.
“ On my arrival at the hospital I was shown a native
woman whose left leg had, two days before, been ampu¬
tated, while she was in a mesmeric trance, and found
her not only quite easy, but absolutely lively. The
Bengalee language being familiar to me, I spent ten
minutes in conversation with this woman, during which
she told me that, when her leg was taken off, she did
not-feel the least sensation of pain ; indeed, that, even
on her waking, she was not aware that the operation
had been performed, and could only believe it when, she
had ocular demonstration of it. She moreover added
that, since the operation, she had experienced no un¬
pleasant feeling, except a slight heat or burning at the
end of the stump. I was quite satisfied that she spoke
the truth when I perceived that the only concern she
seemed to have, was to know how she would manage to
move about when permitted to leave her bed; and she
felt not a little comforted when I told her that no
doubt she would be supplied with crutches, which would
render locomotion practicable and easy.
“ At a quarter-past eleven, the operations for the
day commenced. These were five in number, and
several evidently of the most dangerous description. I
must say, that, in my opinion, three of these at least
could, under ordinary circumstances, not have taken
place without violent struggles, shrieks, and other ex¬
pressions of deep anguish being elicited from the patients;
and yet all five, during the operations,' remained per¬
fectly calm and passive, and apparently in the soundest
sleep—no movement of the body being perceptible,
with the exception of the usual heaving of the chest
when breathing. One only was occasionally slightly
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1873.
groaning, though, as will appear in the sequel, uncon-
Bciously to himself. A medical gentleman present,
whom I requested to feel the'pulse of the patients,
declared it was natural, and indicating no excitement
whatever. Their features, all the time, were composed
as in natural sleep, without exhibiting any contractions
of the muscles, or any other external sign of suffering.
“After the five operations had been successively
ended, and the patients had recovered their conscious¬
ness, I went to the bedside of each of them with a
number of the gentlemen present, and asked all sepa¬
rately whether they had felt any pain during the
operation. Every one for himself, and without having
heard what the others had said, replied he had expe¬
rienced no pain whatever, and, indeed, had no idea
till after waking that anything extraordinary had been
done to him. I further inquired of them whether they
then felt any pain ; two answered they felt none at all,
and the others said they had merely a sensation of un¬
usual heat about the parts operated upon. I then put
the question to the individual who had occasionally
groaned during the operation, as to why he had done
so ? He replied that he was not at all aware of having
groaned, and that all he knew was that he had just
awoke from a sound sleep.
“ My decided opinion, from the expressions of the
'patients, which were uttered in the most artless and
unambiguous manner possible, was, that they had not
experienced the slightest pain or pang while the opera¬
tions were being performed, and, afterwards, that the
burning sensation which two of them complained of,
was evidently so trifling as barely to deserve the name
of pain. My own eyes, moreover, convinced me that
they had not dn the least moved or shrunk during the
painful operations, and that, subsequently, they were
calm, collected, and even cheerful, to a degree I should
have thought impossible in any persons placed in the
same circumstances. The above are simple, unvar¬
nished facts, from which the reader of this statement
may draw his own conclusions.
“ Not being a medical man, I feel incompetent to
describe the operations that were undertaken, nor do I
deem it necessary to give here an opinion on the subject
of Mesmerism in general. Suffice it to say, that, after
witnessing what I did, I do consider Mesmerism as a
valuable gift of God’s Providence, which, when season¬
ably used, may prove the means of alleviating much
human suffering and misery, and which, therefore,
ought to be thankfully receive'd and acknowledged. At
the same time, I cannot but express my deep convic¬
tion, gathered from what I saw, that Mesmerism, in
order to be rendered' really beneficial and safe from
abuse, should on no account be practised by' any but
medical men; and even by them, for medical purposes
only. ' “ A. E. La Croix,
“ Missionary of the London Missionary Society.
“ Chinsurah, Thursday, June 4th, 1846.”
AN AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH IN THE MESMERIC TRANCE.
To the Editor of1 ‘ The Englishman.”
“ Dear Sir,—Having seen many discussions in the
papers touching mesmerism and Dr. Esdaile, and
opinions being divided on the subject, I and others will
deem it a.favour if you will publish in your paper the
following account of a visit which the under-mentioned
and self paid to Hooghly on Tuesday last, the 11th
instant. Let me first premise, that the visit was quite
unexpected by Dr. Esdaile, and unpremeditated by us,
and that we were perfect strangers to the Doctor. A
note of introduction secured to us his attention. , On
our arrival at his house, we made known to him our
wishes, and he then told us he was afraid he could not
gratify us by showing any operations under the mes¬
meric trance, as he did not think there was a subject
for it; he would inquire, and would show us all in his
power, if we would accompany him to the hospitals.
Accordingly we proceeded together to the Charity, or
Emambarrah Hospital. After some inquiries, a man
was shown to him who had severe inflammation, or
rather a mortification of the right leg. Drl Esdaile
told us that, as this patient hadmot yet been mesme¬
rised, he was afraid he could not be thrown into a state
of coma on that day, but that the trial should be made:
and accordingly a native student was desired to com¬
mence operations on him. The man was then awake,
lying on his cot. Finding that it would perhaps take
some hours before the coma could be produced, we
proceeded to visit another hospital, and there we were
disappointed in finding no patient as an object. How¬
ever,- the Doctor to oblige us, called in a native, on
whom he had a short time previous operated for hydro¬
cele, when under a mesmeric trance ; and, after most
ably demonstrating to us the uses, manner of operating,
and the effects of mesmerism on different individuals,
he proceeded to mesmerise the native just mentioned,
and in a quarter of an hour succeeded in throwing the
man into what we conceived a deep sleep; but sleep it
was not, for he was totally insensible to all pain. We
proved this by trying many experiments on him;
amongst others, the Doctor applied nitric acid to a sore
or wound, in a most tender part too, but not a muscle
of the patient’s body moved; he seemed to sleep as
tranquilly as an infant. Some quarter of an hour after
these experiments, the patient was awakened by the
Doctor, by pouring water on his face and body, blowing
into his eyes, shaking, &c. On awakening, the man
was quite composed, and, on being asked if he had
suffered any pain, he replied, ‘None whatever.’ We
then told him to look at the sore which the acid had
effectually acted on ; he then said : ‘ Ah ! now I do feel
a burning sort of sensation there.’ About this time,
the Doctor received information that the patient in the
other hospital, before alluded to, had been successfully
mesmerised, and was then in a fit state to be operated
on. We all adjourned there, and found the patient
lying still, and apparently in a deep sleep. The Doctor
decided on amputating the leg, and shortly after the
leg was taken off about six inches above the knee.
During the operation we watched most minutely the
patient, and the result was most satisfactory; for not a
muscle moved, the pulse was steady and regular, there
was no perspiration on the forehead, no paleness of
countenance; in fact, he was as motionless as a dead
body. After the operation had been completed, he was
removed to another cot, and, some short time afterwards,
he awoke in the most natural manner, by stretching out
his arms, yawning, and rubbing his eyes. We particu¬
larly remarked that his eyes were quite clear and placid;
they would have been different, I take it, if any drug
had been administered to him; in fact, had he been
drugged to the extent necessary to make him quite in¬
sensible to the knife, saw, &c., the chances are, he would
have never come to life again: there was no mistake
here. His answers to the questions we put to him were
distinct and clear; viz., we commenced by telling him
he bad slept long, and asked how he felt after it. He
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
April 15, 1873.
replied: ‘Yes, I have had a good sleep, and feel all the
better for it.’ We then asked if his leg pained him as
much as ever. He replied : ‘ No, not so much as it did
before I went to sleep, but there is a throbbing sensa¬
tion which there was not beforethis was the beating
of the large artery after being tied up. We showed
him some spots of blood on his arms and clothes, and
asked him to account for them. He appeared perfectly
astonished at them, and could not account for them.
We then told him that Tie must necessarily soon die,
if he did not consent to have the bad leg amputated.
He replied: f It was God’s will, and that if it was
taken off he should die also, and he would rather
remain as he was.’ On this the amputated limb was
shown to him; he appeared perfectly astonished, and,
as it appeared to us, did not believe it had belonged to
him, until the clothes were taken off, and the stump
shown to him. Then we all remarked his look and
manner denoted how happy he felt that the operation
was over,' and he alive and well after it. The poor
fellow evinced his gratitude in the usual native manner,
by placing his hands together on his breast, and mut¬
tering blessings on the Doctor. Thus ended this second
exhibition of the triumph of mesmerism. I would here
remark, that Dr. Esdaile told us (at least we so under¬
stood him) that if a patient, about to be operated on,
was informed that the operation would take place when
he had been put into a mesmeric trance, that the
agitation of the nerves, caused to the patient by such
imprudent information, would perhaps effectually bar all
chance of success ; in fact, that he could not be thrown
into the mesmeric trance; and it is to be hoped that,
in common justice to Dr. Esdaile, in the public trial
about to be carried on, care will be taken to guard
against such imprudent disclosures to patients.
“ Now, Mr. Editor, I have stated the facts as they
occurred, and were witnessed by the undersigned, and
two other persons from Calcutta, whose names I cannot
remember, having lost their cards. I will make no
comments, but conclude with stating the belief of one
and all of us, that Dr. Esdaile is destined to be a bless¬
ing to mankind, and an honour to his profession.
“We are, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
“ M. Cobfield, Major, 20th Eegt.
“ H. W. Dennys, Adjt., 20th Regt. N.l.
“T. Rattray, Lieut., 64th Regt. N.l.
“ J. G. Briugs, Lieut., 40th Regt. N.l.
“ Barrakpore, 13th August, 1846.”
MESMERISM AS A SOOTHER OE PAIN.
From the Indian Letters of Count de Gortz in the Allgemeine
Zeitung.
“ Calcutta, December 26th, 1846.
“You little think with what I shall conclude this letter
—with an account of mesmerism and surgical operations.
You must know that they have here lately thought of
applying the full insensibility caused by Mesmerism
for the purpose of making the most severe operations
painless.
“ Dr. Esdaile, as yet a' young physician in the Com¬
pany’s service, has for the last eighteen months used it
in the treatment of his Hindoo and Mahommedan
patients, who, like the Chinese in Canton, delay con¬
sulting the European doctors till their cases, become of
the most desperate description.
“ His experiment completely succeeded; he gave
himself up to it, and worked wonders; and thereupon
the doctors made war upon him with fire and sword.
But he so gained the public confidence by his open
conduct and the absence of all charlatanry, that the
Government felt compelled to submit his experiments
to a commission for practical demonstration. A com¬
mission of doctors, having witnessed his experiments,
decided in his favour; and for the last two months he
has been placed at the head of a mesmeric hospital,
where he performs the most dreadful operations without
the patients’ feeling them. He has performed upwards
of one hundred operations without one death occurring,
some being the removal of tumours from 60 lbs. to
100 lbs. in weight. In consequence the poor heathen
think it help sent from heaven, and regard Dr. Esdaile
as an incarnation of Vishnu.
“ What particularly pleases me in Esdaile is his clear,
sound, common sense; for he makes no pretensions to
cure all diseases by mesmerism. He is a doctor, like
any other doctor, and a bold operator. He only says :
‘ My facts prove that I can perform painless operations,
and I only wish you, for the sake of humanity, to
acknowledge this simple and incontestable fact.’ He has
long followed this honourable conduct, and therefore
I hope it may bring him fame and fortune.
“ I was very kindly received by him, and he may
perhaps prefer the opinion of an unprejudiced layman
to that of a prejudiced colleague. I went to see his
hospital, as one must see these things to remove dis¬
belief, and to be able to reprove it in others, and saw
myself an operation performed, which from the nature
of the complaint was most bloody, dreadful, and pain¬
ful. The patient never felt it, and was awakened five
minutes after all the bandages had been applied, and
spoke to us all unconcernedly, feeling no pain in the
wound till it was shown to him ; and it was only then
that he started, and, putting his hands together,
thanked God that his complaint had been removed.
The thing pleased me much, and it appeared to me to
be an immense advance. Besides the chief advantage
gained, the other direct advantages are these,: that the
patient does not become exhausted with fear and pain,
and that the surgeon can operate with the greatest
ease, as if on a corpse. I should never have been able
to witness such an operation if I had also been obliged
to behold the sufferings of the sick man. But thus, it
did not excite any disagreeable feelings in me, and I
am at the same time happy to be able to speak of the
case with the weight of an eye-witness.
“ As regards a very important question, whether
mesmerism does not leave behind it any noxious influ¬
ence, and make an after cure more difficult, I may
observe, that-Dr. Esdaile most confidently denies this,
and points to the fact of one hundred operations having
been performed without a death.”
The following is a list of the mesmeric operations
performed by me in the Government hospitals of
Hooghly and Calcutta:
Amputation of thigh .. .. .. .. 2
Amputation of leg .. .. .. .. 1
Amputation of arm .. .. .. .. 2
Amputation of breast (one of 71bs., another of
10 lbs. weight) .. .. ... .. 4
Amputation of thumb .. .. .. .. 1
Amputation of great toe .. .. .. 1
Amputation of penis .. .. 3
Amputation of one testis .. ..' .. 3
Amputation of two testes.. .. .. .. 2
Amputation of enlarged nymphge and clitoris 1
Amputation of scrotal tumours of all sizes, from
10 lbs. to 103 lbs. .. .. .. .. 200
Cancer of cheek extirpated .. .. .. 1
Cancer of Eyeball .. .. .. .. .. 1
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1873.
168
Cancer of scrotum .. .. .. .. 2
Cartilaginous tumours on ears removed .. 2
Cataracts operated on.. .. .. • • 3
End of bone in compound fracture sawn off .. 1
End of thumb cut off .. .. .. .. 1
Great toe nails cut out by the roots .. .. 5
Gum cut away .. .. ... .. .. 1
Heels flayed .. : . .. .. .. 3
Hypertrophy of penis removed .. .. 3
Hypertrophy of prepuce .. .. • • • • 1
Lithotomy .. .. .. .. .. 1
Lithotrity .. .. .. .. .. .. 1
Piles, suppurating, cut out .. .. .. 1
Prolapsus the size of a child’s head reduced in
a trance .. .. .. .. .. 1
Strangulated hernia reduced in trance .. .. 3
Straitened contracted knees .. .. .. 3
Straitened contracted arms .. .. .. 3
Tumours in groin removed (a fungoid un¬
descended testis) .. .. .. .. 1
Tumour in Antrum Maxillare removed .. .. 1
Tumour on. leg removed .. .. . . 1
Total .. .. 261
No account has beeh kept of abscesses opened, teeth
drawn, nitric acid applied to large sloughing sores,
hydroceles operated on, setons introduced, unhealthy
sores pared down, &c.
The deaths in two hundred operations for scrotal
tumours have been five per cent. And it is a remark¬
able fact, that though twenty at least of the tumours
were from 50 lbs. to 103 lbs. weight, and many of the
patients were fifty, and several of them sixty years of
age, yet in no instance did death ensue directly from
the operation, but took place many days or weeks after,
in consequence of lock-jaw, fever and dysentery, cho¬
lera, and ultimate exhaustion of the system.
The deaths among the other operations were four.
In surgery, the benefits of mesmerism are not confined
to the extinction of pain during operations, but are of
the greatest general and particular advantage in the
after' treatment of the patient. If local pains occur
they can be readily extinguished by the mesmeric sleep,
or by local mesmerising.
It is impossible to say with perfect confidence be¬
forehand to what precise extent the insensibility will
befriend us : the trance is sometimes unexpectedly
disturbed by the knife, but it can generally be re¬
established ; the patient sinking back, into perfect
repose, and recollecting nothing on awaking. In my
early operations I availed myself of the first fit of in¬
sensibility, not knowing whether I could command it
back again. But the surgeon may safely calculate on
the trance becoming deeper daily, and, when operating
in public, it will be prudent to take the precaution of
several preliminary trances.
Flexibility of the limbs, when moved, or their re¬
maining stiff in any position in which we leave them,
is characteristic of the trance; but on attempting to
move the limbs, they are often ffound to have become
rigid, and cannot be bent, or the whole muscular system
is in a state of complete relaxation, and the arms and
legs can be tossed about like those of a person struck
dead by lightning.
I cannot tell which state indicates the deepest
degree of insensibility; but, when any one of these
conditions of the muscular system exists, and the
patient bears pricking around the navel with a knife,
or severe pinching of the nipple, without awaking, the
operation may be proceeded with.
In concluding the surgical part of the subject, I beg
to state that I have never seen (nor has any one else)
any bad effects to attend or follow upon operations per¬
formed in the mesmeric trance, and that the influence
is essentially of a strengthening, instead of a depressing
nature.
I also wish to remark that I have never seen any¬
thing to indicate that the trance was connected with a
congested state of the brain. That the mesmeric torpor
of the brain does not depend upon sanguineous conges¬
tion is evident from the perfectly tranquil state of the
general and local circulation, as well as the appearance
of the eyes. Many persons, when suddenly aroused,
do not see at first, though their eyes are wide open,
and they are in the full possession of their general
consciousness. The pupil is seen to be dilated and
insensible to light; they know that their eyes are wide
open, but that they cannot see, and the circumstance
alarms them : they instinctively rub their eyes, and the
sensibility of the retina and iris immediately returns.
For any one to see this, or hear of it from a credible
quarter, and still to affect doubt and talk of imposture,
is to convict himself of an incurable moral blindness,
which it would be folly to attempt to cure. “ None are
so blind as those who will not see.”
We commenced rather inauspieiously in the Experi¬
mental Hospital, several imperfect operations having
occurred during the first month, to the no small grati¬
fication of those who came to spy out the nakedness of
the land ; but, as this led to important practical results,
I will here give an extract from my hospital reports
regarding these cases:
“ It is no small triumph of science, and no trifling
boon to humanity, to render men insensible even to
half the horrors of terrible operations; but, having
been long accustomed to save my patients all know¬
ledge of the injuries inflicted upon them, I was dis¬
satisfied with the half-successes that occurred last month,
and suspected that there was some disturbing influence
at work which had been overlooked, or that I was
ignorant of. As many imperfect operations happened
in one month", as in the last year and a half, and I re¬
solved not to move a foot farther till the disturbing
cause was detected.
<£ In the hot weather the patients are all but naked,
and in this state are entranced and operated on. But
last month they were mesmerised under two blankets
and a sheet, with their faces only exposed. Having
been tested in the mesmerising-room, they were carried
on their beds into the operating-room, through which a
current of the cold north wind blew; and, that every
movement of the body might be seen, they were exposed
stark naked to the spectators. I remarked on several
occasions that a deep inspiration, and other involuntary
movements, immediately followed this exposure of the
body to the cold air, although the persons had a moment
before been quite indifferent to the loudest noises,
pricking, and pinching. The de-mesmerising influence
of cold, when artificially applied, was familiar to me, as
will be seen in my Mesmerism in India, and it will ap¬
pear surprising that I should not have been more on
my guard against it as a natural agent. I can only
plead in extenuation the stupefying influence of a suc¬
cessful routine; but failures, when improved, are often
more instructive than complete success. It was proved
that cold was the secret enemy at work.”
The celebrated medium, Mrs. H. J. Jencken, will tem¬
porarily leave London towards the end of May, to pay a short
visit to her relatives in the United States.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
April 15, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
One of the Australian daily newspapers, the Bendigo Star,
of December 23rd last, published a full page supplement,
entirely devoted to the reporting of a lecture on Spiritualism,
by Mr. W. D. C. Denovan, delivered at the Rifles’ Orderly
Room, Sandhurst, on Sunday evening, December 22nd. The
circumstance of a daily paper taking such a step, shows that
truth has a tendency to spread more rapidly in countries un¬
fettered by conventional habits, and by effete institutions
propped up by vested interests. Can any of our readers living
in Brompton prove the identity of the Alfred Longmore
mentioned in the following extract from Mr. Denovan’s
lecture ?—
You do not know,-in your hasty condemnation of Spiritual¬
ism, the happiness you are denying yourselves. To know for
a certainty that your friends live and that when you shall have
“ shuffled off this mortal coil,” you will also live, is joy un¬
speakable. You wonder at the spread of Spiritualism, and
the general interest excited by it; but knowing, as you must
know, the uncertainty which prevails in the public mind
concerning a future life, and the contradictory doctrines
taught of it, is it surprising that intelligent, responsible
human beings (despairing of ever obtaining reliable infor¬
mation or repose for their souls in the decaying churches)
should seek after that which-brings home to the senses the
. very evidence they are in search of ? Twelve months ago or
little more, whilst agreeing with the other religious teachings
of Spiritualism, I laughed at the idea of spirits demeaning
themselves to communicate with mortals at all, far less at
their doing it at tables ; but I listened to what its pronounced
advocates had to say, and being naturally of an enquiring
turn of mind, became impressed with their sincerity and good
sense, thought I ought to know more of it before-refusing to
believe in it, and that I would read and investigate for myself.
Having come to this resolution, I resolved honestly to abide
by it, to learn all that could be learned on the subject, irre¬
spective of trouble or expense (for I at once saw, if it really
were true, its importance to my fellow creatures could not be
over estimated), and to decide after an impartial investigation,
according to the evidence. I am here to-night to pronounce
judgment; and that judgment is now unreservedly in favour
of Spiritualism. I cannot, if I would, deny its truth. I have
read all the standard works of Spiritualists—as well as many
of the minor ones—which I could lay my hands on, have read
them carefully, and digested their contents ; and my decision
is, that the evidence in favour of the truths of Spiritualism is
overwhelming. It- is not because the bulk of the evidence
has been attested by living witnesses of high social position
(for the honest poor man’s word is as good as the word of the
proudest peer in the realm), but because it nearly all comes
from disinterested sources, from persons who were, actuated
by the same motives as myself in conducting their investiga¬
tions, and who, therefore, could have no motive in delibe¬
rately deceiving themselves, or lending the strength of their
honourable names to the deception of others. In addition to
this book evidence, and what was related to me by others,
who had confirmed it in their own experiences, I resolved to
form a circle to test, if possible, the truth of it as others had
done, so that I could say, when speaking on the subject,
“ and I have seen those things with my own eyes.” Friends,
holding you all in the bonds of high esteem and affection, and
being desirous that you should share in the comfort and hap¬
piness which a knowledge of Spiritualism brings vyith it.
I say to you, “ Go thou and do likewise.” But you wish to
know the result of my twelve months’ investigation. Well, it
amounts to this : our circle, of course, were but new beginners,
and had much to contend with. There was a great difficulty
in obtaining a suitable place of meeting, and being, all of us,
entirely ignorant of what course to follow, we had just to learn
as best we could. Most of us were in earnest, and have perse¬
vered through good report and through bad report. By
degrees evidence upon evidence has been coming to us. We
had not long commenced ere we were all able to avow openly
that the table phenomena were genuine ; that they were
neither produced by imposture nor brain force. Subsequently,
evidence came to us through a motive medium—a young girl
of highly respectable parents—that these phenomena were
caused by unseen intelligences, who seem ed very willing to
communicate with us, but had great difficulty in doing so.
With a kerosene lamp burning brightly on the table, and in
the presence and sight of some fifteen persons, we saw a half-
crown dropped into the open hand of the medium ; and three
persons who were present have since publicly attested with
their signatures the fact that they saw near the ceiling a
spirit-hand, draped in white, drop the money. I did not see
this, but I saw the money fall into the girl’s hand; and I, nor
any of us, were not deceived. Deception, under such circum¬
stances, was out of the question. That money, along with
more which came the same evening, was found to have been
brought by invisible intelligences (I believe by spirits of the
departed), from the house of the medium’s parents, half a mile
distant from where the circle was sitting. The lady at whose
house we were, in the clairvoyant state, foretold the latter
portion of the manifestations of that evening.. Months after¬
wards, by the same means, a ladies’ work-box was brought
into the circle. We havd also had even stronger evidence o
the presence of spirits at our circle. A most respectable
young man, who is our principal medium, is usually entranced
by his controlling spirits, and made to write instructions and
messages to us; and about two months ago he was suddenly
controlled by a strange spirit, who made the medium write in
the dark whilst entranced, with his eyes shut, in a clear bold
hand, altogether different from that of his own. This spirit,
perfectly unknown to anyone in the circle, announced himself
as follows :—“ My name is Alfred Longmore, aged thirty-five
years ; died fifteen years ago at a place called Brompton,
London.” This spirit promised, if we would have patience,
that we should have as good manifestations as the Fox family,
but would have to wait a little longer for them. Since he has
controlled our medium, our circle meetings have become
doubly interesting. One night, he brought a red rose to a
lady present, who had been promised a flower, and, as is usual
with all flowers brought by spirits, the stem became black, as
if burned by electricity. Another night, there was placed on
a table before me a copy of The (London) Spiritualist, which,
on opening, I discovered, to my amazement, was my own
copy, with my name written on it, and which I had sent to
a friend on Saturday afternoon, who resides at Quarry Hill,
with a request that he would return it on Monday. On his
calling on that day—the circle having all agreed not to tell
him of what had occurred—he said he called to inform me
that he had lost or mislaid my Spiritualist. He missed it on
Saturday night, when he went to change his coat. On putting
his hand in his inside pocket, expecting to have a quiet read,
he found it gone. He could not account for it; but he wished
to purchase another for me. Having thus heard his state¬
ment, I then, to his utter astonishment, pulled the paper out
of my desk, and explained the whole occurrence to him, which,
you must all admit, was a very extraordinary one. A gentle¬
man was present in my office at the time my friend called,
and can verify the truth of what I have told you. The circle
are the witnesses respecting the arrival of the paper. The
spirit made the medium write, “ I found the paper.” The
distance from Quarry Hill to the house of Mr. Martell, where
the circle was sitting is, I should say, at least three-quarters
of a mile. I leave you, as wise men, to judge what power
it can be that thus can go into people’s houses unseen, bring
out things and convey them through the air for long distances
into rooms with the doors locked, and the windows bolted.
Nor is this all. One evening, at the same place, and quite un¬
expectedly to all of the circle, raps came for the light, all our
hands being on the table at the time, when we found the
medium with his coat off, his hands behind his back, and tied
together at the wrists with his pocket-handkerchief in a most
extraordinary manner, and so tight as to be painful to witness.
Not one of the circle, including the medium—who was in a
deep trance all the time—were clever enough to have produced
the phenomena ; nor, without the assistance of a knife, could
they have untied the knot. I, fortunately, had read of similar
phenomena occurring at the seances of the Davenport Brothers,
and asked the spirits to untie the medium for us. We put out
the light, and in about ten seconds, on relighting, we found
him unbound and seated in his chair with his coat on. Since
then, at many sittings, he has been tied to his chair, one
evening horizontally to the legs of it without the chair moving
from its equilibrium, and on others in all sorts of ways. A
member of the circle has several times been made to tie him
in the light, and in a few seconds we have found him untied
and re-tied by the spirits themselves in an entirely different
manner. On a recent occasion a lady, who is a clairvoyant,
informed me, as chairman of the circle, that she saw the
coat of the medium held up by some unseen presence, and saw
the medium himself put his hands into it just as anyone of us
would do who had our coats held up for us to put on. The
168
THE' SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1873.
same lady saw “ a very large, coarse, spirit hand” in the dark,
as if beckoning to me. She was not deceived, as she saw both
occurrences quite plainly. I, myself, have been repeatedly
touched by invisible intelligences, and on one occasion a spirit
hand warm, but softer than our own hands, came over my
hand. ■ Later the same night a similar hand, but malformed
as if to remove all doubt from my mind, again covered mine.
Lately, brilliant lights have been seen for a moment by several
members of the circle, and cloudy figures near to or on the
table ; but, as yet, too vague and fleeting for us to be able to
say with any degree of certainty what they are. Thus friends,
you will see that here, in Sandhurst, we are gradually and
surely accumulating evidences for ourselves of the leading
facts of Spiritualism. We only now want the connecting link
to be able to say that in our own personal experience,
Spiritualism is true. What I mean by the connecting link is
this, seeing the spirits materialised, conversing with them, and
shaking hands with them, all of which has been done thou¬
sands of times in other lands, and is now being done in several
circles in old England,
LECTURES ON SPIRITUALISM AT THE CRYSTAL
PALACE.
On Wednesday afternoon, April 2nd, Mr. George Sexton,
M.A., M.D., LL.D., gave the first of two lectures on | The
Phenomenal and Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism,” in the
Opera Theatre of the Crystal Palace at Sydenham. The theatre
was nearly full on the occasion, although the Palace authorities
made an extra charge for admission. Mr. Benjamin Coleman
presided.
Mr. Coleman said,—Ladies and gentlemen, I take leave to
say that I am not fulfilling a prominent part here to-day
from any wish of my own, having had a recent illness ; but
we were, at the last moment, disappointed in the gentleman
who was to have taken the chair. Many of you know, never¬
theless, that I have been a convert to Spiritualism some twenty
years, during which time I have made other converts from all
classes of society, embracing some of the most prominent
men of the day, who will tell you, what I also think, that
there is nothing in Spiritualism opposed to true religion, to
sound philosophy, or to common sense ; and I hope that Dr.
Sexton, whom I now have the pleasure of introducing to you,
will satisfy your minds upon these points. (Applause.)
Dr. Sexton then gave nearly the same lecture as that which
he delivered at Dalston, and which was published in the last
number of the Spiritualist. He said that'there were various
kinds of belief, but the best belief was absolute knowledge
founded upon facts. He intended, that morning, to bring
facts before them, which should be judged by the same rules
and laws as those which are applied in every other branch of
science. Those persons who denied the facts because they
had not seen them, were out of court in the discussion, and
not competent to give any decision upon the subject. In the
course of the lecture Dr. Sexton spoke of Professor Pepper's
last attempt to expose Spiritualism ; but Professor Pepper
soon found that he had made a mistake, and at last he said
that he would have nothing more to do with it, for he had
discovered that some of the deepest thinkers of the age were
Spiritualists.
At the close of the lecture, the Chairman said that a limited
number of questions might be put to Dr. Sexton, and the fol¬
lowing queries from different gentlemen were the result :—
Is not materiality essentially connected with the mind?
I am a materialist of fourscore years of age, and I wish to
know whether mind can act independently of matter.
Dr. Sexton replied that he should hardly like to say that
mind could act quite independently of matter, but that the
mind could act independently of what people upon earth call
matter he had been endeavouring to teach all through the
lecture.
When the brain is destroyed, thought cannot exist.
Dr. Sexton replied that that theory implied that the brain
produced mind, whereas the brain was a piece of mechanism
us ad by the mind.
How is it that your theory does 'not reconcile itself with com¬
mon sense?—We do not like revelations to come through a
wall. God allows us to communicate with Him, and not
through tables. (Applause.) How is it that messages come
from such infidel sources as tables and walls, which themselves
can be resolved into gas ?
Dr. Sexton said that last question showed a thorough want
of knowledge of the whole subject. Spiritual messages came
from scores of sources besides chairs and tables: but even
were they confined to those two sources, he could see nothing
ignoble in them. The message itself was the more important
thing; people did not ignore ordinary telegraphic messages
because they had been signalled by the rappings of a tele¬
graphic instrument, (Applause.)
Are not the messages frequently 'puerile and untruthful?
Dr. Sexton replied that the last question was a very important
one, and it was perfectly true that many of the communica¬
tions were frivolous, and some of them untruthful. The next
world, however, is but a continuation of this one,, and when a
man is a great liar here, he does not change his nature in five
minutes, while passing through the process of death ; but he
continues to be untruthful still, until he begins to improve
himself. The fact that many men do not speak the truth on
earth, does not prove that human beings do not exist, and the
fact that some spirits are untruthful is no proof of their non¬
existence. Spirits and their messages should be judged just
the same as men and their sayings.
Where do spirits exist, and how do they exist?—Suppose, as
theologians say, the earth has only existed for 6,000 years, the
bodies of the men who have died upon it since would form a
layer upon its surface very many feet thick. Where then are
all the bodies of the spirits ?
Dr. Sexton replied that it would require time enough for
another lecture to deal with the question of the abodes of
spirits, and the inquirer should read spiritual books on the
subject. The last part of the question involved no great ditfi-
culties, as it was easy to conceive that there was plenty of
room in the universe for any number of spirits.
You have tickled the ears of the people here at the expense of
their intelligence (laughter).
Dr. Sexton—I consider that to be a direct insult to the
chairman and myself (applause). I have talked to you only
of hard facts, and of a scientific mode of accounting for them
in a scientific manner (applause).
The proceedings then closed.
On Friday afternoon, April 4th, Dr. Sexton gave his second
lecture at the. Crystal Palace, under the presidency of Mr.
Benjamin Coleman.
Dr. Sexton, after arguing that there was no reasonable
foundation for Dr. Carpenter’s assertion that Spiritualism is a
mental epidemic, said that every great discovery made in the
history of the world had been opposed on the very same
grounds that Spiritualism is opposed at this day, namely, that
it is contrary to common sense, and “ contrary to the laws of
nature.” The last expression really meant “ the preconceived
ideas of the objectors as to what the laws of nature really
are.” The force .which controls simply acts more powerfully
than the force which is controlled; for instance, when a
weight is lifted by the hand in spite of the force of gravity,
the law of gravity is not abolished, but is overcome by another
law for the. time being the same thing occurs when a table
rises in the air by spirit power; vthe law of gravity is not
thereby set aside. It was argued that a thing which is mate¬
rial cannot be lifted by a thing which is immaterial ? How
did they know that ?' When he lifted a weight, nerve energy
set in motion various mechanical powers in the body, but
volition originated the nerve energy, and volition was not
material. Spiritual phenomena were said by some to be due
to psychic force, which was no doubt true, as psychic force
meant spirit force ; but some of the people who advanced the
objection meant that it was a force not controlled by spirits,
but by nerve power acting unconsciously. But the theory
does not explain the phenomena. For instance, the psychic
force has been known to call itself “ John,” and the believer
in psychic force asks “ whether John is happy,” and “ how is
he getting on in the next world ? ” and the force answers
forthwith. If they believe it to be a force, why do they call
it John and talk to it as if it were an intelligent individual T
The men who say to a force, “ How are you to-day ? ” must be
much more nearly mad than Spiritualists are sometimes sup¬
posed to be. “ Psychic force ” he thought to be an expression
invented by men who were afraid to incur the unpopularity
of Spiritualism. Sometimes Spiritualism is said to be mes¬
merism, but mesmerists of many years standing admit the
objection to be untenable, whilst those who advance the
objection very frequently do not believe in mesmerism them¬
selves. Some suppose Spiritualism to be due to the action of
diabolical agents, but as scarcely anybody present was likely
to believe that objection, it was worthy of little consideration.
Men talk glibly of how much they know of matter, and how
little of spirit, whereas the reverse is the fact; they know
much of spirit and nothing of matter. This statement may
THE SPIRITUALIST.
169
April 15, 1873.
seem at variance with general experience, but a moment’s re¬
flection will show that it is correct. What is matter, and
what do we know of it ? Let a materialist attempt an
answer to this question, and he will soon discover how diffi¬
cult a task he has to accomplish. Matter is only known by
its attributes. The substratum that underlies phenomena
cannot be recognised. Yet this very substratum it is that is
meant, when matter is spoken of. The properties of matter,
such as extension, resistance, and others, are not matter, yet
we know of nothing else in connection with matter. Abstract
all the properties of matter mentally, one by one—this done,
the philosopher has not removed a single atom of a material
character. Now imagine “What is left behind ? ” Will it be
a substratum without properties, or nothing at all ? The
former is an impossibility, the latter a nonentity. That which
is called matter is just the one thing of which men know
nothing, and can know nothing. If, however, it be said that
matter is only the name given to a collection of attributes, and
that these, being all bound in one by a strong bond of some
kind, constitute the thing, this is to get rid of mrtter alto¬
gether, for no one of these properties is an entity, and the ad¬
dition of a dozen nothings cannot make a something. Is this,
then, a material world at all? Most certainly, but only exist¬
ing as a shadow of the great spiritual sphere which underlies
it, and from which it originally sprung. If spirit were not,
matter could not exist for a moment. Moreover, even the
attributes of matter are not known except as ideas, which he
supposed would be admitted to be immaterial. If we look at
an object, what is it that we see ? Not the object itself, for
that clearly is an impossibility. The eye receives the rays of
light, passing from the body in question, these, after penetrating
the various coats and humours of the organs of vision, forming
a picture on the retina of the eye of the object to be seen.
Now, even this picture—which we must bear in mind is not
the thing itself—cannot enter the mind, but has to result in a
perception before it can be taken cognisance of by the spirit,
or what the materialist calls the mental part of man. It
must be clear to the meanest capacity that the consciousness
of our own existence, and the capability of receiving know¬
ledge, must precede all knowledge that is received, and must
at any stage of our existence be better known to us than any¬
thing in the external material world. Hence, in ourselves
the knowledge of spirit is more perfect than that of matter.
The material body is but the clothing of the soul adapted to
this material state, but useless in those spiritual spheres to
which we are all tending. Day by day it changes, and is ulti¬
mately thrown off and its elements scattered over the earth
dispersed and decomposed ; but that Which moulded its shape,
lent it vitality, preserved it intact, and by whose power it was
moved, dies not, but lives on for ever. (Applause). Dr.
Sexton closed his address by thanking the directors of the
Crystal Palace for the facilities they had given towards the
deliverance of the lectures. He also thanked the chairman,
Mr. Coleman, who was one of the oldest Spiritualists in
London, and who had fought many of its hardest battles.
Moreover, Mr. Coleman had attended at- personal inconveni¬
ence, as he was unwell.
Several questions were then put by some of the listeners,
the first one being—
Did you ever know life without matter ?
Dr. Sexton—Did you ever know life with matter ? Spirits
live without that physical organisation which men or earth
call matter.
Did you ever know spirits to do anything useful, such as re¬
vealing the perpetrator of a murder?
Dr. Sexton replied that spirits had better work to do than
to act as spiritual policemen, although there are instances on
record of their revealing crimes. Spirits did not wish, as a
rule, to bring murderers under the vindictive punishment of
the law ; they preferred to reform even the worst. If a spirit
told the name of a murderer, what would be the use of it ?
Suppose a man carried a message of the kind to the police
authorities, wnuld they act upon it? Would they not, in the
present state of the public knowledge, consider him to be a
madman P
What benefit has Spiritualism conferred upon anybody ?
Dr. Sexton—For twenty years I doubted the reality of a
future life ; Spiritualism taught me that materialism and
atheism are false, that God loves man, and that there is a
world beyond the grave. (Loud applause.)
We do not need Spiritualism to teach ns that.
Dr. Sexton—That means that you do not need it; but I
did, and so do thousands besides. If spirits came to earth ,to
teach men how to make money, which is what the British
public usually mean by the expression “ something useful,”
I should despise them, and look upon the whole thing as con¬
temptible.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that Dr. Sexton had spoken well,
and he moved a vote of thanks to him for his lecture.
Mr. Ford, of the Dialectical Society, seconded the motion,
which was carried unanimously, with acclamation.
Dr. Sexton, in acknowledging the compliment, said that he
did not ask them to accept any statements he had made with¬
out testing them, by making experimental trials in their own
homes.
Among the ladies and gentlemen present at the lectures were
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Miss Ayling. Miss Deekens, Mr. William
White, Major Owen, Mrs. Owen, Mrs. Hamilton, Mr. W. Tebb,
Mrs. Tebb, Miss Cooper, Mr. and Mrs. Ford, Mrs. Edmiston,
Miss E. Edmiston, Mrs. Strawbridge, Mr. Enmore Jones, Miss
Jones, Miss A. Jones, Miss Florence Cook, Mr. Holt, Mr. and
Mrs. A. B. Tietkins, Mr. B. W. Pycock, Miss Belsey, Mr.
Shearwood, Mr. Haythorne, Mrs. and Miss Cutmore, Dr.
Ponder, Miss Ponder, Dr. Dixon, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Pearce,
and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
SPIRITUALISM IN MARYLEBONE.
On Monday, April Gth, at the quarterly meeting of the
Marylebone Society for the Investigation of Spiritualism, held
at 90, Church-street, Paddington, Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.,
Barrister-at-Law, presided, and there was a large attendance
of members and their friends.
The Chairman said that the report of the secretary set forth
that the society was formed a year ago, with only six mem¬
bers, the number of whom had since increased to fifty-two.
He was informed that the society desired to increase the
number of its members, and to raise money enough to obtain
the use of a hall, in which the researches might be prosecuted.
It was proposed that the members should follow the example
of the Dialectical Society, by forming themselves into com¬
mittees, in order that in their own homes they might learn
more about the wonderful phenomena of Spiritualism, and to
what extent they were true. When he (Mr. Jencken) began
to investigate, he was not convinced at once ; on the con¬
trary, he attended dozens of seances, and witnessed very many
hard, stern facts, to make sure that he was standing on firm
ground, and that his spiritual friends were not mad. It was
hard to believe that spirits were near to us, or to accept the
facts before seeing many positive proofs, the result of hard
real investigation, such as was necessary in making all ad¬
vances in scientific knowledge, and of all the sciences Spi¬
ritualism, with its mighty array of magnificent phenomena,
was eminently worthy of examination. (Applause.) The
members would first have to obtain and observe the pheno¬
mena, then to discuss them, thereby gradually clearing their
brains of cobwebs, as he had had to do himself at the outset.
The treasurer's report was not prepared, but every member
probably knew its leading features ; if not, they could pass it
without understanding anything of its contents, as was cus¬
tomary at the majority of general meetings, where far greater
interests were involved. (Laughter.) They might as well,
therefore, go at once to the subject of music. A library in
connection with the society would be formed soon. (Ap¬
plause.)
Miss Emily Maltby and Miss Agnes Maltby then gave a
duet on the piano—Fanfare Militaire.
Mrs. Charles Hunt read a poem by N. P. Willis, “ The
Mother and her Dying (. hild.”
Miss Malvina Claxton then sang “ The Future Life” in
excellent style, and received warm applause at the close.
Mr. J. G. Robson, a medium, then in the trance state, sang
“ There are some eyes so softly bright,” after which there
was an interval for refreshments.
Mr. Jesse Claxton next gave a song, accompanied on the
piano by Miss M. Claxton.
The Assistant-secretary gave a short address about Spiri¬
tualism, saying that although he was weak the cause was
strong. The members must expect to encounter difficulties
in their inquiries, and it was a mistake to expect spiritual
messages in perfection at the outset. Only a few days ago an
opponent of his at a public meeting ridiculed the idea of a
departed clown showing himself at a seance in a clown’s
dress, forgetting that if a spirit wished to be recognised, he
could not do better than show itself in the dress he wore
on earth. People argued much about the nature of matter
and spirit, of neither of which did anybody know the real
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
nature. They, as investigators, had chiefly to' do with the
fact whether departed human beings did or did not return to
earth, and appear to several persons at the same time. Spi¬
ritualism had already made converts of some of- the finest
minds in the nation he would instance Mr. Varley as one,
and it proved that men were not merely thrust into a brief
existence here, but had to travel on and on through the
countless ages of eternity.
Miss M. Claxton and Miss Bailey then played some Scotch
airs on the piano.
Mrs. Dickinson, a trance medium, then mounted the plat¬
form “ under influence,” and made a few remarks, which were
imperfect, said her controlling spirits, because she had been
developed for medical clairvoyance and not for public
speaking.
The Chairman asked in what way she was made to speak,
while personally unconscious ?
The reply was that she was mesmerised by one spirit, after
which another spirit by will-power was endeavouring to force
his ideas through her lips.
Mr. Henry Griffiths next sang “ The Freshening Breeze,”
accompanied on the piano by Miss Malvina Claxton.
The Chairman afterwards read the following kindly address,
which had been very beautifully engrossed. It related to the
entrance into spirit life of Mr. Maltby, one of the members of
the society :—
Marylebone Association of Spiritualists,
December 31st, 1872.
We, the members of this society, beg to express our deep sympathy with
Mrs. Maltby and family, on the passing away of one beloved by all.
Your present bereavement is indeed a painful one; fond nature bids you
weep; and in proportion to your affection, so must be your grief—’tis right
it should be so. The purest of beings “ wept’’ over the grave of his friend.
Let us thank the Great and Good Father even for our tears: sacred,
indeed, do those.tears become when we shed them over the object of our
most pure affection. But while you thus sorrow, the risen one, in his
translated state, ceaseth not to love you all, and your abiding affection,
responding to his own, will ofttimes attract him earthward to hold sweet
communion with wife, child, and friend again! And in the recognition of
this consoling fact, in the sacred enjoyment of this unspeakable blessing,
and with “ the sure and certain hope ” of meeting again in higher spheres,
where partings are unknown, and death cannot enter, we know you can
say, “ Our Father'doeth all things well.” And to His kind and merciful
protection we commend you, praying, that “ As your day, so your strength
may be.”
This was signed by Mr. B. Cowper, the president of the
society, on behalf of the members.
Mr. Maltby, overcome by emotion, and in a few words,
acknowledged, on behalf of his mother, family, and himself,
his appreciation of the kindness of the members.
Soon afterwards the Chairman had to leave, and Mr. B.
Cowper, who was voted into his place, gave a short address
about Spiritualism, saying that it brought men out of dark¬
ness into true liberty, to behold, not an angry God, but a loving
Father, and conferring pleasures which could never be given
by the “old theology.’'
Mr. Henry Griffiths next sang “ Emmeline,” and was accom¬
panied on the piano by Miss Malvina Claxton. This was de¬
cidedly the best piece of the evening, and was very warmly
received.
Mr. Charles White, the secretary, moved a vote of thanks
to Mr. Henry Griffiths for the beautiful manner in which he
had executed the illuminated MS, of the memorial presented
to Mrs. Maltby and family.
Mr. Charles Hunt seconded the motion.
The assistant secretary supported the motion, saying that
Mr. Griffiths wrote well and sang “ awfully ’’ well,so that there
was no necessity for the members of the society to inquire,
“ Who’s Griffiths ? ” (Laughter.)
Mr. Whitley told how-his experience in Spiritualism began
twelve years ago, and how he and his friends sat fifteen months
for manifestations before they obtained any, when they came
with power, displaying at the same time marvellous intelli¬
gence. He first obtained his information about Spiritualism
from the conjuror, Professor Anderson, and his assistant, Mr.
Nimmo. The result was that Spiritualism had made him a
new creature, and turned him inside out.' (Question 1)
Shortly afterwards the.proceedings closed.
The address of Mr. Charles White, the secretary to the
Marjlebone Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, is 11,
Little Marylebone-street, W. Hesidents in the neighbourhood
who wish to become members, should communicate with him.
Me. Tebb, in another column, suggests the. presentation
of a sum of money for the benefit of the Bev. J. Murray Spear,
to which he has subscribed £5; Dr. Hewton, £2, and “A
Friend,’’ £1.
April 15, 1873.
THE LONDON ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A new society, with the above title, was formed in the first
i nstance by the dissentient members of the Anthropological
Institute, and its first meeting was held last Wednesday
evening at 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the presidency of Drr
,R. S. Charnoch, F.S.A. The vice-presidents are Captain
B. F. Burton, F.E.G.S., and Mr. C. Staniland Wake ; trea¬
surer, Mr. Joseph Kaines ; council, Mr. John Beddoe, M.D.,
Mr. H. B. Churchill, Mr. J. Barnard Davis, M.D., F.B.S., Mr.
J. Fraser, Mr. George Harcourt, M.D., F.B.C-S., Mr. J. S.
Holden, M.D., F.G.S., Mr. T. Inman, M.D., Mr. Kelburne
King, M.D.. F.B.C.S., Mr. J. Barr Mitchell, M.D., and Mr. T.
Walton, M.B.C.S. ; honorary secretary, Mr. A. L, Lewis;
honorary foreign secretary, Dr. C. Carter Blake.
The following letter was read at the meeting:—
P Hotel de la Ville, Trieste^
Feb. 17th, 1873.
“ My dear Charnock,—I see by the papers that a ‘new
Anthropological Association has been founded, Dr. C. Carter
Blake and Captain Burton being amongst the promoters.’
“Absence from England prevents my taking such active
steps in aid of the Reformed Society as I desire to take : in
fact the only action left for me is to explain my reasons for
seceding from the ‘ Institute.’
“ Without entering into the cause celebre of Anthropologist
versus Ethnologist, or into the sharp practice said to have
characterised their annual meeting, and the discussion of the
second house list, I will briefly state my objection to the ‘ In¬
stitute,’ namely, that it is no longer in my humble opinion
what we intended it to be, and what we made it on January
6, 1863.
' “ The explorer and traveller’s chief want is some journal in
which he can discuss those highly interesting social problems,
physiological details, and questions of religion and morality,
which are judged unfit for a book addressed to the general
public. My object was simply and purely to supply this want
when I first took the chair, ad interim, until our energetic
and single-hearted friend, the late James Hunt, was ready to
become President of the Anthropological Society. Many
members joined us with the higher view of establishing a
society, where they might express their opinions freely and
openly, without regard to popularity, ‘ respectability,’ and
other idols of the day. We did not tremble at the idea of
‘ acquiring an unhappy notoriety.’ We wanted to have the
truth and the whole truth, as each man understands it. We
intended to make room for every form of thought—the orthodox
and the heterodox ; the subversive and the conservative ; the
retrograde equally with the progressive. Personally I was
desirous to see a fair and and exhaustive discussion of phreno-
logy; of missionary enterprise concerning which so little fact
is known in England ; of the pros and cons of negro slavery,
upon which subject exaggerated, not to say erroneous ideas,
dating from the early nineteenth century, when both sides
fought for faction not for truth, have sunk deep into
popular mind ; and of Spiritualism, now become the faith
of millions, which so-called science, supported by the
host of neophobes — allow me to coin the word — either
treats with rude hostility or with supercilious neglect.
Our general and special aim, however, is to establish a free
society in a free country, and by such means to attain the
level of discussion in Germany and France. The last but not
the least of our projects is to supply the English reader with
our versions of foreign Anthropological works written by such
authorities as Brocaaud Waitz, Pouchet, Gastaldi, and Carl
Vogt.
“ Almost needless to say that the existing ‘ Anthropological
Institute ’ no longer meets these wants, which are still as
urgent as they were. I therefore hail with pleasure your and
Dr. C. Carter Blake's action in this matter, and propose my¬
self as one of your fellow-workmen—this time, it is hoped,
not a “ dummy.” Let us again fight under the old flag of
January, 1863. Our battle will be against numbers far ex¬
ceeding ours, the victory will be only the more glorious.
“ Yours sincerely,
“ Richd. F. Burtox,
“ Ex-president, of the Anthropological Society.
“Dr. R. S. Charnock.”
The President then read his opening address, in the course
of which he reviewed the work the new society was about to
undertake, and mentioned Spiritualism as one of the subjects
which ought to be investigated. He made certain critical
remarks about the Anthropological Institute and its leaders,
April 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
pointed out a geographical error made by Professor Huxley,
and incidentally mentioned (to the great delight of the lis¬
teners) that Si£ John Lubbock was in the habit of calling the
mastodon a “mastodon” (rhyming with “ Culloden”).
Dr. Carter Blake moved a vote of thanks to the President
for his address, and that the address should be printed. He
said he was aware that there were many good and true hard
working men connected wdth the Anthropological Institute ;
he hoped those men would come and help the new society,
which, he trusted, would not conflict with any other.
Dr. Barr Mitchell seconded the vote of thanks, which was
passed unanimously.
Dr. Charnock said that he did not seek the office of presi¬
dent, and was willing to give it up to anybody else, especially
as within next month he had to be in Trieste, Germany, and
the north of Hungary ; but if the members desired him to
remain, he would do his best, and give everybody fair play
(applause).
The Honorary Secretary then read a paper by Mr. T.
Inman, M.D., on “ Ancient Temples in Malta.”
Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. C. W. Cook, Mr. Buckley, and Mr.
A. L. Lewis, took part in the discussion. The latter gentle¬
man said that the chief temple described was clearly and un-
mistakeably a temple for Phallic worship, a fact which
authorities had hitherto ignored, showing the necessity for
the formation of a new Anthropological association, to over¬
come that parochial striving after gentility with which the
average Englishman was so much afflicted (laughter). In
connexion with the subject, he remarked that young ladies
were in the habit of decking Englbh churches at harvest
homes, and on other occasions, with emblems of Phallic and of
Buddhist worship, without in the least degree knowing what
they were about.
The thanks of those present were given to the author of the
paper, and the meeting broke up.
MARRIAGE CUSTOMS IfsT MOROCCO.
It will be remembered that Miss Emily Keene was among the
ladies who assisted at the amateur singing given at the fare¬
well meeting, in the Cavendish Rooms, to Mr. J. M. Peebles,
the lecturer on Spiritualism, and the American Consul at
Trebizond. The following particulars relating to the subse¬
quent marriage of Miss Keene, were published in the Daily
Telegraph, of March 28th :—
“ Gibraltar, March 22.
“Intelligence from Tangier says that the French Minister,
M. Tizot, intends proceeding to Morocco, for the purpose of
having an interview with the Emperor. M. Tizot, accom¬
panied by his first dragoman, M. Destrees, and an Attach^ of
the Embassy, will embark on board the ironclad corvette
Sane on the 28rd for Mazagan, whence the party will proceed
by easy stages along the route to the Court of Morocco, Sir
John Drummond Hay, the representative of Great Britain, is
also about to proceed to the Moorish capital. Considerable
importance is attached to these simultaneous missions, the
projected mole of Tangier, as also the laying of a cable in
connection with the Gibraltar, Malta, and Falmouth line, being
concerned thereby.
The marriage of the Sheriff of Guazan to Miss Keene, and
his subsequent mode of life, his not having secluded her after
the manner of Mohammedans, and not having insisted upon
her renouncing her Christian tenets, is looked upon as a great
outrage upon the precepts of the Mohammedan religion. The
intelligence of the marriage is said to have caused a painful
sensation at the Court of Morocco, and, notwithstanding the
Sheriff’s exalted position, the Sultan has sent despatches to
the Governors of the Provinces, expressing his indignation at
the Sheriff’s conduct, ordering them to warn him that if he
does not immediately return to his possessions at Guazan, and
conform to the precepts of the faith, make atonement for past
errors, and lead a life of piety such as becomes the sacred (in
Moorish eyes) position which he bolds, his estates will be
confiscated, he will be deprived of his" prerogatives, and, if
caught, thrown into prison. This decree of the Sultan has
given great satisfaction to the Moorish community at Tangier.
Both the Sheriff and his wife have disappeared, and it is
supposed they are concealed in some foreign legation in
Tangier.
“ The position of Miss Keene is considered critical, she being
regarded by the Moors with feelings of hostility.
“ [We are askpd by relatives of Miss Keene—now the
Sherifa of Guazan—to state that they have received accounts
which prove the ^bove report to be much exaggerated, the
lady being-in no real danger, and Sir J. D. Hay having himself
expressed the belief that a reconciliation between the Sheriff
and the Sultan might shortly be expected.—Ed. op D. T.]
A GHOST ON A RAILWAY ENGINE.*
From the “ Syracuse (N. Y.) Journals
The leading sensation on the Binghampton Railroad
at the present time is the story that a ghost is haunting
the engineers and firemen of the locomotive “ Yon
MoltkeY The story has been current some days, but
like all ghost stories, the evidence has been as thin as
the spectral object, though latterly it has been some¬
what strengthened by circumstances. Conductor Eno,
engineer Kennedy, and Billy O’Brien, the fireman, tell
the same story, as will be seen by the following, from
the Binghampton Republican :—
O’Brien seems to be the_ special favourite of the
spectre, which assumes the form of a woman when
calling upon him, and his associates allege that the
object always comes clad in a plaid shawl. There is
one. thing certain, and that is, that the three men
named seem to fully believe the story they tell, and
that nearly all the employes of the road are taking a
lively interest in it.
Conductor Eno says that last Eriday morning his
fireman, Billy O’Brien, came back to the coach where
he was riding, and laid down upon a bench as if to try
to sleep. He noticed that Billy appeared to be unwell;
that he was very pale, and perspiring in large drops.
He would close his eyes for a few seconds only at a
time, and then start up and stare around like one sud¬
denly aroused by a strange sound or sight. The con¬
ductor paid no further attention to the strange conduct
of the fireman than to watch his manoeuvres to satisfy
himself as to whether he had been drinking much or
not, and he concluded that Billy was a little drunk,
although he had never suspected him of drinking
before.
After Billy had spent a few moments in those oft-
interrupted attempts to sleep, he went ahead upon his
engine, and the conductor saw or thought no more
about him until the train arrived at Marathon. There
he learned from the engineer, Johnny Kennedy, about
their strange visitant at Jamesville, and the mysterious
voice that had been heard upon the engine at short
intervals, all of the way from Jamesville down to Mar¬
athon.
When the train left Binghampton for Syracuse on
Friday evening, they were afraid to go on duty again
without more company, and conductor Eno and others
took positions on the engine. Nothing extraordinary
appeared to the vision or hearing of any of the com¬
pany, except tho fireman, for several miles ; and the
company, all except the conductor, engineer, and fire¬
man left the train. The fear of the fireman, however,
continued, and he dared not go back upon the tender
after coal without first opening the arches to throw a
glare of light back upon the coal-box, and then he
would keep his eyes upon the tender only just long
enough to throw the coal into the arch, which was done
* Tlie Daily News and Globe recently published a brief notice stating
how some American railway employes had been frightened by'a ghost.
We here give a full account of the matter from an American newspaper,
from which it appears that the stoker is simply a powerful physical
medium, and that the phenomena observed in his presence are the same
as those which are common enough now at spirit circles here in Eng¬
land.—Ed.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aphil 15, 1873.
as quickly as a scared child would scramble into its
mother’s lap.
Between Lafayette and Jamesville there is a water-
tank standing in a lane, placed for the accommodation
of freight and coal trains. At that tank this train
stopped to take water, and the fireman was sent back
to fill the engine-tank. The conductor was there sit¬
ting on the fireman’s bench, in a drowsy condition, and
did not pay much attention to what was transpiring,
until the engineer nudged him, and told him that the
woman was back upon the tender. The conductor
could hear a strange muttering, and rushed to the
tender to make an investigation. As he touched the
tender he heard the voice say, in an angry and excited
manner—“ Now, Billy, I’ve got you, and will throw
you into the water.” The fireman, with the ability of
desperation, seized a three-link coupling-chain, and
drew it back with both hands to strike. The conductor
reached him in time to stay the descending weapon.
He-told him not to strike a woman, but to grasp and
hold her. Search for the woman at that instant was
prevented by the overflow of the tank and the rushing
of the water upon the conductor, and it was with the
utmost difficulty that he made the affrighted fireman
understand the order to shut the gate. When the water
was finally shut off, search was made for the woman,
but she had vanished.
This was the only adventure the conductor had with
the weird shadow, or substance, or whatever it might
have been. He says he does not believe in ghosts,
never was afraid of them, but there is certainly some¬
thing about this affair that he cannot understand. He
certainly heard a voice, and he believes it was not
O’Brien’s voice, but there was no other person there to
speak. The only explanation that can set his mind at
ease is that Billy is a ventriloquist, and he is certain he
is not. By the conductor's misgivings in the matter he
really admits that he shares, to some extent, in the
ghostly hypothesis.
It will be remembered that the visitor introduced
itself to the fireman and engineer at Jamesville last
Thursday night, claiming to be the apparition of Nellie
Hill, whom the firemen had seen in the penitentiary the
previous Tuesday. On his return to Syracuse he went
straight to the penitentiary, and was much relieved to
find that Nellie was still in the flesh. But when
retiring from the penitentiary the apparition met him
on the side walk, and upbraided him for drinking some
whiskey he had just imbibed. In an attitude like that
of the witch of Endor, when she foreshadowed the fate
of Saul, the apparition pointed to the place in Billy’s
face under his moustache, and prognosticated that
“ Whiskey would be the death of him.”
Billy told her about his visit to Nellie Hill, and the
evidence in his possession that she was a fraud. She
then gave him an opportunity to gaze squarely into her
face, and Billy recognised her as Etta Murray, alias
the “jumping weazel,” with whom he had been but
too intimate in her better days.
However, a meeting in which they should be alone,
in front of Mike Joy’s saloon, in Syracuse, between
twelve and one o’clock on Sunday morning, was arranged
for, provided she would not appear to him again before
that time. Both kept their words, but what transpired
Tn the long and earnest conversation, of which some
of Billy’s companions were distant spectators, Billy does
not divulge.
Neither Billy O’Brien nor Johnny Kennedy, the engi¬
neer, dared to run the g Yon Moltke ” over the road on
Saturday night, and engineer William Milane and
fireman Mike Eox were detailed by Superintendent
Yorhees for the forlorn hope.
Before the “ Yon Moltke ” was taken out of the
yard, and while Milane was oiling her, a girl with
a plaid shawl came up and asked him if Billy O’Brien
was going out on that engine. Without looking up—
for he had not seen her yet—he replied that “ he
guessed not.” “ Are you sure?” Milane looked up
and saw the plaid shawl. He did not like Hamlet
say,—
Thou com’st in such a questionable shape,
That I will speak to thee,
but he took his oil-can and went into the cab, not
caring whether the “Yon Moltke’s ” machinery squeaked
or run smoothly. As soon as he received reinforcements,
he sallied out to look for the girl in a plaid shawl, but she
had vanished. She did not appear to him again, but he
was constantly on the watch for her.
The “Yon Moltke ” left for Syracuse again last even¬
ing, in charge of Milane and Fox. Milane has become
more resolute, and is determined that if any girl with
the plaid shawl comes within speaking distance of him
again, he will ascertain by his sense of feeling, whether
she is substance or shadow. Milane also had full con¬
fidence in the bravery and agility of Fox, and thought
he could be depended upon to watch and catch any girl
in a plaid shawl between Binghampton and Syracuse,
whether—
Spirit of health, or goblin damned.
On Tuesday, April 1st, at the ordinary fortnightly meet¬
ing of the Anthropological Institute, the president, Professor
George Busk, F.R.S., made some critical remarks upon a large
collection of ancient Peruvian skulls, just received.
Spiritual periodicals should be ordered through local
newsvendors, and not by post direct, since, in the former
case the journals have to pass through the hands of many per¬
sons in business, who thereby have Spiritualism introduced to
their notice as a practical fact.
The Labours of Science.—The labours of critical
science plainly certify that several old persuasions and faiths
are not only amenable to revision, but are actually undergoing
the process, and that the method applied to them leaves no
escape from the irresistible and definite treatment which is
fast showing them to be mere assumptions and unsusceptible
of longer credence. Men of science are saying in effect: We
ask no co-operation, not e/ven consent, from the people, as a
reason or foundation for any change in their ideas of things or
facts with which we deal. We simply demonstrate quite
apart from their admission or denial, ay, even from their
intellectual comprehension of the processes, that things they
have hitherto believed are in themselves no longer truth or
fact, and their consent to the demonstration is quite immate¬
rial.—Liverpool Daily Atbion.
The Marriage Laws.—The Morning Advertiser, in
criticising the recent regretable rejection of the Deceased
Wife’s Sister’s Bill, by the House of Lords, said :—“ We are
utterly at a loss to account for his Royal Highness the Prince
of Wales, and the Duke of Edinburgh recording their opinions
in favour of legalising marriage with a deceased wife’s sister.
It appears, however, that they have done so ; for appended to
the official division list of the House of Lords on the Deceased
Wife’s Sister’s Bill is the list of Pairs for and against the mea¬
sure ; and higgledy-piggledy in this list, without any distinc¬
tion of rank or alphabetical order, we find among the ‘ fors,’
‘ Wales, Prince of,’ and ‘ Edinburgh, Duke of.’ Of course
their Royal Highnesses, as Members of the House of Peers,
have the privilege of voting on any measure brought before it;
but as they have hitherto, perhaps wisely, eschewed voting,
and so seldom exercised their privilege even on questions
which are only partly political, their coming forward in this
particular instance to give a definite expression of opinion on
a question of a very delicate nature, and which has created
a very strong feeling socially, is certainly noticeable.”
April 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
INSPIRATIONAL POETRY.
Occasionally some remarkable specimens of poetry given through trance
or other kinds of mediumship have been published in these pages. A lady
in private life, who is not generally known to be a medium, has sent us
one of the poems given through her mediumship; it is entitled, “ Indian
Summer in the South.” Some of the verses are a little forced, and the words
do not flow smoothly. The invisible author of the poem, after narrating
how the golden haze does not suffice to quench 'the oppressive noonday
glare, adds
The sun with'crimson glory crowned,
"Wheels slowly towards the west,
Like some fierce king of battles, bound
Homewards with gleaming crest.”
The low streams are described as running languidly between “banks of
dreary grey
Where long since gave the grass its green
To the fiercely burning sun;
Brown, brown and burnt the sylvan scene,
Dull brown, and yellow dun.
LOVE.
The following lines are uttered by the Fairy Queen, in Mr. W. S. Gil¬
bert’s comedy, The Wicked World, now acting at the Haymarket Theatre:—
"With all their misery, with all their sin,
"With all the elements of wretchedness
That teem on that unholy world of theirs,
They have one great and ever-glorious gift
That compensates for all they have to bear—■
The gift of Love.
It nerves the wearied mortal with hot life,
And bathes his soul in hazy happiness.
The richest man is poor who hath it not,
And he who hath it laughs at poverty.
It hath no conqueror. When Death himself
Has worked his very worst, this love of theirs
Lives still upon the loved one’s memory.
It is a strange enchantment, which invests
The most unlovely thing with loveliness.
The maiden fascinated by this spell
Sees everything as she would have it be,
Her squalid cot becomes a princely home,
Its stunted shrubs are groves of stately elms;
The weedy brook that trickles past her door
Is a broad river fringed with drooping trees ;
And, of all marvels the most marvellous,
The coarse, unholy man who rules her love
Is a bright being, pure as we are pure,
Wise in his folly, blameless in his sin,
The incarnation of a perfect soul,
A great and even glorious demi-god.
Where are all the lecturers on. mesmerism ? Spiritualists
desire to learn about mesmerism, and to witness public ex¬
periments. The Psychological Committee of the Anthropo¬
logical Institute wishes, we believe, to fully inquire into the
same subject, yet mesmeric lecturers are few and far between,
and difficult to find.
Spiritualism in Barrow.—For some considerable time
no little curiosity has been excited in this town to witness
certain manifestations which have been attributed to the
spirits of persons who have “ gone to that bourn from whence
no traveller returns.” Indeed, seances have been held almost
nightly in the private houses of those who have a desire to in¬
vestigate the subject of Spiritualism—and, as the results
have been freely discussed, large numbers of persons have
been seeking admission to the circles in order that they might
have the opportunity of applying some test or other, with a
view to elicit the truth or falsehood of the wonderful and ex¬
traordinary statements they had heard.—Barrow Times.
Spiritualism in Darlington.—Mr. J. P. Hinde in¬
forms us that the Darlington Association of Spiritualists is
doing useful work, chiefly through the assistance of the
mediumship of Mrs. Butterfield, whose recent addresses in the
trance state, given at the Cavendish Rooms, created such a
favourable impression among London Spiritualists. Mrs.
Butterfield holds a meeting in her own home every Sunday
morning, Spiritualists only being admitted, and on Sunday
evenings there is a public service in the room of the Associa¬
tion, where many earnest faces may be seen listening to her
"inspirational addresses, which are beautiful because a child
may comprehend them, and a philosopher may study them.
A developing circle is held at Mrs. Butterfield’s house on
Wednesday evenings, and there are numerous circles in full
operation elsewhere, some of them in strict privacy, in cases
where the members are afraid of popular clamour. Eighteen
months ago, nothing was known in Darlington about Spirit¬
ualism, and it began its work there solely in consequence of a
shopkeeper having exposed one of the spiritual periodicals for
sale in his shop window. The local newspapers opposed
Spiritualism at first, but the opposition seems now to have
died out.
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, professional'mediums, have left
London for Brighton and the provinces, and will return early
in May. They have many engagements.
An announcement in the Medium newspaper that a spirit
had been seen by many spectators to fade away outside the
cabinet, at one of Miss Cook’s seances, was made in error,
and is not founded upon fact.
A grave ex parte accusation was made on hearsay testi¬
mony in the last number of the Medium, respecting a well-
known medium, but unsupported by evidence. As the whole
of the circumstances will have to be published, readers had
better wait till all the circumstances have been made known,
before forming opinions upon the subject.
In London some dissensions have been springing up
lately among Spiritualists, traceable in several instances to
the jealousies and quarrels of a few physical mediums ; it is
a pity that Spiritualists should allow themselves to be influ¬
enced at all, either in thought or action, by mesmeric sensi¬
tives.
The “Spiritualist” Fund.—Four of the six £5 subscrip¬
tions originated by the letter signed “Justice ” have been re¬
ceived from friends, and on the receipt of two more the list will
be closed. The support given has been unexpectedly generous,
especially when the constant demand upon Spiritualists for
subscriptions for various purposes during the past three years
is taken into consideration. We stood out for several years
against the principle which has all along been in vogue, of
supporting spiritual periodicals by subscriptions, incurring, of
course, heavy losses in consequence of being so unequally
weighted in the race, through standing aloof from the esta¬
blished system. There is a general desire that the Spiritualist
should be published weekly, which may be done at any time
on request, and with a very moderate amount of further aid,
because constant shorthand writing and editing is given freely
and willingly to the work, also moderate money expenditure.
This spiritual periodical is therefore produced at several hun¬
dreds of pounds per annum below the normal expenses of
any similar paper, consequently can be issued weekly
at a very slight expense to the friends of the movement.
For instance, if those friends who expedited the fortnightly
publication would unanimously agree to repeat their sub¬
scriptions any time within the next six months, and if those
who subscribed the smaller amounts would increase them a
little, that a total sum of ^150 may be raised, we should
be happy to issue the Spiritualist weekly forthwith.
A Spiritual Soiree.—A feeling has been prevalent for
a long time among London Spiritualists, that a meeting
should be called where the friends of the movement could
attend, and consider many questions of interest connected
with Spiritualism. Mrs. M. E. Tebb and some of her friends
thought of making preliminary arrangements for a soii'6e at
the Cannon-street Hotel, in connection with Spiritualism;
tickets two-and-sixpence each. Mrs. Tebb, however, has had
to leave town for a few weeks. Mr. T. Blyton, of 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E., has expressed his willingness to undertake
the actual work involved in making the necessary arrange¬
ments, if Spiritualists desire him to do so. It is not probable
that there will be any money loss over the meeting, but if a
few leading Spiritualists wrote to him, asking him to do the
work, each guaranteeing to make one of ten to subscribe
enough to cover any possible loss that may be incurred, he
will do as desired. Mr. Tebb, Mr. Luxraoore, and a few
others, have volunteered to join in such a guarantee fund.
It is proposed to hold the meeting on or about May 10th.
Refreshments would be served the first part of the evening.
Afterwards, as on the occasion of the presentation of a testi¬
monial to Mrs. Everitt at the same place, the proceedings
might assume the character of a general meeting. The ques¬
tion—“ Shall we organise?” might well be considered. Perhaps
some of the gentlemen mentioned in our first article in this
issue will take the matter up ; and if they would like Mr.
Blyton to arrange a small private meeting at once, to-make
preliminary arrangements, he would very willingly do as
desired, with his usual energy in promoting everything
tending to benefit Spiritualism. If the question of organisa¬
tion is to be brought forward, there should be some prelimi¬
nary meeting to prepare a definite plan to lay before the
larger assemblage.
Answers to Correspondents and a few letters are
kept over, because of want of space in this number of the
Spiritualist, which is published rather later than usual to-day
(Tuesday), in consequence of its being holiday time.
174
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 15, 1873.
trap nti ence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
HIE EEY. J. MUEEAY SPEAE.
Sir,—Mr. John Murray Spear has been for several years
a missionary of Spiritualism. During this period he has
travelled in twenty-nine of the States and territories of the
American Union, in Central America, and in the Canadas. He
has twice visited England, and been in Scotland, Ireland, and
Wales, and also France. These missionary labours on behalf
of Spiritualism have been undertaken at the instance and by
direction of a Society of Spirits, associated for beneficent pur¬
poses, and have done much to extend the knowledge of
Spiritualism in principle and practice.
Mr. Spear has had no private fortune, and there has been
no society or fund to sustain or assist him in his workv
and though his needs have been provided for (often in ways
that seem singularly providential) no provision has been made
for his declining years; and it has been felt by some of his
numerous friends on both sides of the Atlantic, that now that
he is permitted (in the seventieth year of his age) to retire
from public labours and seek the repose which his advanced
years and previous toil make so desirable, some substantial
token of their personal regard) and in recognition of his
public services should be presented him, which may help to
secure a comfortable home where he may quietly pass his re¬
maining days, and experience xthe happiness which flows from
a well-spent useful life, and the firm assurance of an immortal
life of higher and unending progress in the better world
beyond.
Contributions for this purpose may be sent to Mrs. Tebb,
20, Rochester-i’oad, Camden-road, N.W., London, and Mr.
Andrew Leighton, 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool. Sub¬
scriptions will be acknowledged in the Spiritualistic journals.
Mrs. Tebb will undertake to reserve and forward to America
any nearly new bed or table linen, blankets, counterpanes,
curtains, and other portable articles of this kind, which are
much less expensive in this country, and which will be very
useful in furnishing a home for Mr. Spear. Quite new articles
would be subject to duty.
20, Rochester-road, N.W., William Tebb.
April 6th, 1873.
MESMEEIC PHENOMENA.
Sir,—Having read the Spiritualist from its commencement,
and knowing the importance it attaches to mesmerism, by its
publishing Canon Calloway’s paper on Psychological Pheno¬
mena, I thought my experience might not be without in¬
terest, should you have at some future time to compare the
experiences of mesmerists. I am a working man, and I find
very few of the working classes have any sympathy with the
spiritualistic movement, save those who have just tasted the
bitterness of death in the removal of those whom they love
and mourn as lost for ever.
I suffered from lung disease during seven years, and went to
see Dr. Newton several times, but received no benefit, though
two persons who accompanied me, and whose names were
published in the Spiritualist, received benefit. I felt his
power so that I became for a few moments unconscious, and
often since then I have become unconscious, and felt a strong
impulse to speak, remembering, as in a dream, what I am say¬
ing. When I return to my normal condition I fail to recollect
what I said. My health is very bad ; I perspire freely from
hands and face, and sometimes perceive a blue cloud of
vapour floating towards me. I have laid my hands upon
several persons, and found that this power affected them so
much that I could make them do whatever I willed, and I
could tell the sensitiveness of the individual by the apparent
density of some fluidic medium between us.
Never having heard of any mesmerists experiencing the
same sensations, and they treating my experiences as a delu¬
sion, I suggested an experiment to two gentlemen, Mr. T.
Wilkes and Mr. Ortton,of the Dalston Association. The result
was, they experienced similar sensations, Mr.Wilkes describing
it “as if his hand were passing through flour.” Mr. Ortton’s
statement I forget.
One day I went to tea at Mrs. Craiger’s, North-street,
Cambridge Heath, I was unwell, and consequently this
mysterious power was stronger. She was suffering from acute
rheumatism—periodical attacks for months, if not years.
I held my hands over her head, she staggered a little ; all the
pain then went, and there was no returning. On inquiry,
two months afterwards, I found that her husband, who has no
sympathy with Spiritualism, but regards it as Anti-Christian,
will bear testimony to this. She is not a Spiritualist, but sees
spirits. I know a member of a Baptist chapel who sneers at
Spiritualism, yet told me he saw his. mother, after she was
buried, look into his room and beckon to him.
Of all the persons I have had under me for the relief of
suffering by mesmerism, only in one case have I afforded no
relief ; it was a case of paralysis.
The least shock to my system in broad daylight makes me
see innumerable particles of silvery light floating round me,
all oval-shaped, and about one-eighth of an inch long. What
are they ? If I enter a place where there is a powerful
preacher, I feel carried away, and imagine myself to feel what
the preacher says. C, Williams.
46, Ada-street, Broadway, London-Fields, E.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Sir,—In consequence of the recent controversy on the
above subject in your valuable journal, and many others, it
has unfortunately been shown that a considerable portion of
the pictures obtained have been of doubtful origin. My pur¬
pose, however, in trespassing upon your space is to solicit the
attendance at my studio of any' earnest inquirers into this
phase of Spiritualism, who would co-operate with me in care¬
ful experiments.
I am willing to give a fair amount of time and material to
the matter in hand, but am at a loss to obtain the attendance
of necessary mediums. If this appeal to the spiritualistic
public is, as I hope it may be, cheerfully responded to, and
•should future experiments meet with any successful results, it
will probably be more satisfactory to all concerned than the
past efforts have been.
I wish your readers to distinctly understand that I am per¬
sonally unbiassed in the matter, although at the same time I
am exceedingly anxious to test the subject thoroughly under
my own hands.
Communications addressed to me at 45, Cheapside, E.C.,
will meet with every attention. W. H. Gilbert Tate.
45, Cheapside, E.C., April 2nd, 1873.
[It there should be too much demand for the presence elsewhere of the
best London mediums to permit them to attend for experimental purposes,
there is one person who appears to have considerable medial powers in the
direction of the production of genuine spirit photographs, but who has lost
public confidence because he was tempted some time since to increase his
profits by mixing up sham with real spirit pictures. He has suffered for
his misdeeds, and perhaps if he publishes all the' circumstances under
which he took the first spurious picture, it will be seen that he was some¬
what less to blame than is generally supposed. If he would attend in the
studio of a respectable photographer, like Mr. Tate, whereby the public
would gain a guarantee that when spirit forms did not come out on the
plate naturally, they were not put upon it artificially, the result might be
very interesting.—Ed.]
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
Sir,—I travel much in the provinces, and have observed
the satisfactory manner in which Spiritualism is developing
itself in many of the larger centres of industry, for the facts
of Spiritualism evidently spread easily in the face of every
opposition. The energy of the movement has of late received
impetus at the hands of the Spiritualists of Liverpool, where
there is a society called the Liverpool Psychological Society,
which is under the presidency of Mr. J. Wason, the registrar
of the Birkenhead County Court. The society meets every
Friday evening to investigate the nature of Spiritual phe¬
nomena. The members have also instituted services on
Sunday afternoons and evenings, the platform being occupied
by trance, inspirational, and normal speakers from all parts.
These meetings have been in full and successful operation for
the past six months, overflowing audiences testifying td the
maintenance of the interest thus created. This satisfactory
state of things is not especially confined to Liverpool, but
may be also observed in towns farther north,—Preston,
Barrow-in-Furness, Darlington, and Bishop Auckland, pre¬
senting indications of the ultimate triumph of Spiritualism
within their several precincts. Manchester is also doing good
work, and reaping satisfactory results. Blackburn, though
behindhand in the matter of organisation, has several very
earnest and intelligent Spiritualists. One noticeable feature
in my experience is that I find increased attention is being
bestowed upon the scientific investigation of the phenomena,
with a view to the elucidation of the laws and conditions
governing the manifestations. The provincial press is very
THE SPIRITUALIST
175
April 15,
1873.
much improving in its treatment of the subject, indicating a
decided change in popular opinion. With a few more really
competent lecturers in _ the field, progress in the provinces
would very soon eclipse all metropolitan achievements.
Thinking men and women in every district are rapidly con¬
ceding that Spiritualism is the only rational because scientific
religion. . Fides.
SAPIA PADALINO’S CASE.
Sir,—If Signor Damiani would induce his medium to eat
an uncooked onion every day for a week or a fortnight, never
allow her to attend a dark seance, and, when assisting at a
seance, let her burn a little incense in the seance room, I
believe that she would be cured, in a very short time, by these
simple means. I have known of two or three cases of obses¬
sion so cured. But it was said by a good man of old,—
“ Shall I receive good and not evil at Thy hands, 0 God ?”
And does not this apply to Spiritualism? Do we not mani¬
fest great selfishness in driving these poor undeveloped ones
away ? They are our fellow-creatures, and they need our
help and sympathy, without which they have no power to
progress towards a higher state.
I know of some very touching casesjs where spirits of this
class have been elevated by the sympathy, teaching, and
prayers of a medium whom they had nearly worried out'of
his life for months, and, in one or two cases, for years. These
are now all gratitude, and among his dear friends.
One who Feels eor the Undeveloped.
[Is the incense supposed to act chemically or psychologically? Is it neces¬
sary that the patient should believe it to possess mystic virtues, or does it
stand upon the same footing as the onions ?—Ed.]
f Sir,—Dr. Newton, by his healing mediumship, cured a case
of obsession, and I think the particulars were recorded in
your journal at the time. Spirits should be tried by their
peers more ±han by mortals, consequently a good healing
medium might have power enough to help Sapia Padalino.
It might also be well to give her open-air work regularly in
the sunshine ; also, in fact, to try upon her all the experiments
stated in your last number. X.
March 28th, 1873.
MR. and MRS. HOLMES, from New Orleans, La,
U.S.A., will hold a PUBLIC LIGHT AND DARK SEANCE on
Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings at 8 o’clock. Fee 5s.
Private stances on Tuesday and Friday at 8 o’clock ; also any day at 4
o’clock by special agreement. On Saturday evenings a special seance for
Spiritualists only. 16, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, Marble Arch, W.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
DR. HUGH McLEOD, Magnetic and Eclectic Physician,
103, Bell Terrace, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, treats acute and chronic
cases of disease—distance from Vie patient of no moment. Examinations
made by either hair or carte. Dr. McLeod is assisted by one of the best
clairvoyants in the world. A guinea fee covers all correspondence. Testi¬
monials, and the highest references.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
• TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice; Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE,
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 • Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
• Newcastle-on- Tyne.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.'
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from ... ... 0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests   0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe . 110
Tweed Suit    ... £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same-moderate charges.
WANTED A SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPH.—The author
of the new book entitled, “ Where are the Dead 1 or Spiritualism
Explained,," wishes to publish in his book a copy of a genuine spirit photo¬
graph. Any person having such an one which has been identified, and
which he would not object to publish with his name and address appended,
will greatly oblige by communicating with “Fritz,” care of Messrs. A Ire¬
land and Co., Manchester.
GHOSTS” and “ SPIRITS.”—The STEREOSCOPIC
COMPANY have recently produced a series of “ Spirit ”
Photographs of a very extraordinary character. The
“ Spirits” appear in a Library, a drawing-room, and in
a Country Lane; the books, furniture, and landscape
being respectively seen through them. Album size, 12
stamps. Stereoscopic, 18 stamps, post free. 110 and
108, Regent-street; 54, Cheapside; and Crystal Palace.
Portraits daily, 12 for 10s.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist —
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.  .'   15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”   10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“ A Friend.”... ... ... ...    5 6 0
W. Tebb, Esq |    5 0 0
Ercmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S .".   5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox     5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
J. G. Luxmoore, Esq  5 0 0
Justice    5 0 0
F. S. A J  5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder   '  1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder ...        ... 1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd   10 0
“Longfellow”    10 0
Mr. Withall    10 0
Mr. E. Bird      10 0
Mr. Georgp Dawson   10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers   JO 0
Mr. Rogers      ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald    ... 10 0
Mrs. Gunyon    10 ’ 0
  8 0 0
“Bitterness’  4 4 0
“ A Friend,” Temple  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq  3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S  3 3 0
James Wason, Esq.    ...     3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness     2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston   ... 2-2 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq  ... 2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq .’      2 0 0
John Beattie, Esq  2 0 0
‘“A Friend,’’Manchester   1 1 0
Benjamin Coleman, Esq     110
E. Musgrave, Esq  110
“V.”     .,.110
A Clergyman of the Church of England   1 1 0
B. W. Pycock, Esq  1 1 0
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D  1 0 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell      1 0 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)      1 0 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S    ' ... 1'0 0
Miss Kislingbury  1 0 0
Mrs. MakdougaU Gregory.;    1 0 0
Miss J. H. Douglas ...    10 0
“AFriend”   1 0 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B    10 0
Mrs. Hennings   1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq     0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account ... ... 0 8 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq.,' treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W,; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
176
April 15, 18731
BOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family frieftds and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. ^Nevertheless, it is a very common thing’for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected..
Consequently, to save time, investigators should- do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hpur during the sitting, of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms* of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacb other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters-. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few Seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leading the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits' more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps..
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
Well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witnin the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart, M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869," as follows:—
“H.G-. Atkinson, Esq.. F.G.ST, G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. It. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq. M.D. ; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
PhD.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq..
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.’’
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That .sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance. , t ■, . . .
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force" by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person, jd f
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and;in,
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
o f signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
1 ‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members nf the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this, position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first'
aboutyfee inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“Thehands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about afoot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being’ about eighteen inches from the
table, and haying the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on. eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBBIATES AND THEIB FBIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. Cd.; cloth 2s.,
ON TNEBRIET.Y, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Besult of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harris, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
Foolscap Svo., cloth. Published at 3s., How offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE : illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Bev. "W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “ The Happy Islands,” “ The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M‘Geachy, 89, Union-street.
jJ^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President—The Eight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Tempbrary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
A CARD.
ISS ANNA BLACKWELL begs to offer a copy of
Spiritualism and Spiritism to enquirers who will calif or it at Mr.
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C., or send a half-penny stamp
for postage.
Paris, March 10, 1873'.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
