AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 76.—(Vol. IY.—No. 6.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 6, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence,
tonfents.
National Organisation 
Other World Order  
London Society on Modem Mysteiies
Spirit Forms     
Home Experiences in Spiritualism
Spiritualism at Wandsworth
Lecture by Mrs. Tappan  
Correspondence.—Spirit Forms, 69
tion of New Troths 
The Outrage at a Spirit Circle
Paragraphs.—The National Association, 67; Spiritualism, 67; The An¬
thropological Institute, 67; Mesmeric Statistics,'67; Mr. Gerald
Massey, 72; Phenomenal Spiritualism in New Zealand, 72;
Mrs. Dickinson’s Mediumship, 72; London Anthropological
Society  ’ 
Answers to Correspondents  
Inner Breathing
69
The recsp-
. Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those ws mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and ajl useful inforndation. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland &' Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Sbipkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. —lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE . ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rcoms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—^-29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits. .
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and Lon Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
RS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, CLEVELAND-STREET, OXFORD-STREET.
Committee: —
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Coonaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club,'’ Suffolk-strcet.
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq, 136, Euston-road, N. W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick- quare, S. W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Qray’s-inn-square, ,G., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held fee above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lec'ures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, gouthampton-row, Holborn.
In ord“r to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion cf the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Reserved seats 2s. and Is. each; Back seats 6d.
Body of the Hall free.
THE
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton,
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
.Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamout.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
_ 1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion,
January 9th, 1874.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWAHD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
6. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
18. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
81. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument. '
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Ziferwy
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. OfthelntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.,
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
1?. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. SupersensuousPercep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAT BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co,, Patemoster-row.
mHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
A THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mrs. O. A. Blyton, I Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, | Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tern.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the coUection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Va.e first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. halfryearly; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.-—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in ^Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assoceiation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement. .
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist ot seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy,8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jbens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
NEW WORK BY ROBERT DALE OWEN.
Crown 8v0. pp. 344, cloth 7s. 6d.
mHREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Auto-
JL biography.
A most interesting volume, being a narrative of the first twenty-seven
years of the Author’s life; its adventures, errors, experiences; together
with the reminiscences of noted personages whom he has met, etc.
' - London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
VOiLUJVIE FOUR; JHUJVIBEF^ ^IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6th, 1874.
Cju Spintmlbt
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten. initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Seduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
lhan by the first post-on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions!—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. >
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publish&>\ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he informed of such impediments and im'egulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George.Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. L6uis.—Warren, Chase and CO., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 176, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Biunswick-street..
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
StawelJ.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most-of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shOling.
J1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning _
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Now that the British National Association of Spiri¬
tualists is very nearly upon the point of taking public
action, it may be of service to briefly review the cir¬
cumstances under which this first step in the direction
of national organisation has been taken.
Among Spiritualists there are a large number of
persons who desire to work in friendly harmony with
each other, and who are averse to dissension and dis¬
integration. As it is impossible that large numbers of
people can be unanimous upon every point, united
action can only take place where they are agreed upon
a few leading principles, and if minor matters should
in practice give rise to differences of opinion, obviously
the fairest way of settling such diferences is by vote,
leaving the majority masters of he position for the
time being, the minority cheerfully yielding upon these
minor points, for the good of the cause. These princi¬
ples have been carried out in the work already done by
the National Association. Although all the members
of the Council have been agreed upon main points,
there have been difierences of opinion upon minor
matters at a few of the meetings of the Council and
its committees, and so close, we are told, have been
some of the divisions that in certain cases the resolu¬
tions have been carried by a very narrow majority, and
in a single instance by a majority of one. In all these
cases the minority cheerfully yielded to the decisions,
so that the members of the Council have worked ih a
friendly and united manner, without quarrelling over
small differences of opinion.
At a public conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool last autumn, two papers were read in favour of
National Organisation, and some forty or fifty delegates
from Spiritualists or spiritual societies connected with
nearly all the leading towns in the United Kingdom,
declared themselves Unanimously in favour of national
organisation, consequently the new Association is sup¬
ported by an enormous force of public opinion.
Scarcely a dissentient is to be found anywhere. Some
three or four private individuals, unsupported by any
followers, have expressed isolated opinions against it,
the only argument being that a National Association
might grow into a great ecclesiastical power, and try to
wield authority over Conscience, whereby it would do
more harm than good. Such a line of argument is dis¬
ingenuous in the highest degree, being founded upon a
suppressio veri. Those who have advanced the fore¬
going argument should have stated the whole truth,
and not suppressed that it was generally understood
by all the founders of the Association, that it should
have no power or right to interfere with religious
matters, but deal only with those relating to temporal
business, such as influencing Parliamentary legislation,
hiring halls, protecting mediums or individuals from
persecution, and bringing public pressure or funds to
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1874.
"bear wherever necessary for the good of the cause,
How can an Association formed on the understanding
that it is not to attempt to interfere with the theological
opinions of Spiritualists, attempt to break one of the
fundamental conditions upon which it is founded?
Besides, who ever heard of gigantic tyranny exerted
by officers who are freely elected annually by vote by
ballot ? If Spiritualists do not like the work of their
officers, they can elect others, or cease to support the
Association altogether, or start a new one; in fact, there
will be perfect freedom, and the unanimous vote on the
point at the Liverpool Conference, displays the common
sense verdict of Spiritualists at large.
In the natural course of events, smaller Associations
are sure to spring up, some perhaps consisting of
theological, and others of anti-theological Spiritualists,
all entitled to liberty of opinion, and deserving of all
respect for acting up to their highest convictions. But
that is no reason why there should not be a large Associ¬
ation to push on the interests of the common cause, upon a
platform whereupon all may meet. Why should we not
have a National Association to push on the interests of our
movement, just as the interests of other religious and
scientific bodies are advanced by their organisations,
which, by the bye, are not considered by their sup¬
porters to be gigantic engines of tyranny, but as cor¬
porations whose use is undoubted. Why, then, should
Spiritualists be denied the advantages which other
religious bodies gain by organisation ? As a straggling
army we are weak, but shoulder to shoulder in squares
and columns of regular troops, we are strong.
An immediate and a very great advantage to be
gained by organisation, is economy in expenditure.
As already pointed out in these pages, about two
hundred pounds per annum, judiciously expended
by an organisation, could establish regular Sunday
evening meetings in four or five different parts of Lon¬
don, simply by presenting halls one night per week rent
free to local Spiritualists, on condition that they find
speakers, because not a few gentlemen are willing to
give lectures without making any charge, and in the
case of professional lectures, or in other instances
where it is only reasonable and just that the speakers
should be remunerated, local Spiritualists can then very
well afford to pay them, since they will have no other
expenses to bear. Irregular meetings are far more ex¬
pensive than regular ones, because they necessitate a
great deal of advertising, as well as sundry printing
and placarding expenses, which outlay is not necessary
when meetings are held regularly, for Spiritualists and
others living in the locality then know that some
public business in connection with Spiritualism is sure
to be in course of transaction upon one particular even¬
ing, at a particular place. Thus, in return for the
moderate expenditure just stated, five or six times
more good can be done for Spiritualism in London, than
has been done by three times the outlay in the metropolis
during the past four or five years.
The method of organising has answered well. Mr.
Everitt, the president of the Liverpool Conference, was
asked to call together in London a few gentlemen known
as good workers, to draw up a plan of organisation, to
gradually enlarge the Council as the work went on,
also to elect governing officers when the proper time
should come to do so. During the past two or three
months, Council and committee meetings have been held
with great regularity; a well considered set of rules has
been drawn up, also a prospectus; honorary correspond¬
ing members in foreign countries have been communi¬
cated with and appointed; the chief spiritual societies
in the United Kingdom, and their officers have expressed
themselves in favour of the step, and agreed to give it
every support; thus, the Association stands upon a firm
and very broad foundation of public confidence. Con¬
sidering the jarring elements which more or less are
always to be found among large bodies of people, there
does not seem to be any probability that any other
attempt to secure friendly united action among Spiri¬
tualists, is likely to be so successful as the present one,
for many years to come, and it is in consequence of our
desire for friendly action, and for elected officers, rather
than papal authorities, that we have so strongly advo¬
cated more union among Spiritualists, and the sinking
of petty disputes.
The Council of the National Association now consists
of some forty or fifty members; its president and the
whole of its vice-presidents have not yet been elected.
We think that the president for the first year should be
some gentleman of literary or scientific ability, and one
of no very strong theological or anti-theological bias, so
that he may be tolerably popular among both orthodox
and unorthodox Spiritualists. Of course there are
several gentlemen whom all Spiritualists would like to
see in the position of chairman, but as they cannot all
be made president at once, they may be appointed year
by year as their turn comes. The vice-presidents, we
think, should be the oldest and most respected workers
in the movement, who have fought the battles of
Spiritualism for years, and in days when the movement
was far more unpopular than it is at the present, in
times when its advocacy subjected men to persecution
of which its later followers have little conception; It
should be a source of great satisfaction to our older
workers, to be at the head of a movement supported by
such unanimous force of public opinion, both at home
and abroad.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OE THE “ LIFE OE
SWEDENBORG.”
It is one of the hardest things in the world to get
accurately understood; and when misunderstood we
rather than our own perspicuity are apt to consider
the reader’s perspicuity at fault. Far indeed is it
from my intention to offer a license for all iniquity
or for any iniquity. No: if there is anything
clear it is this, that a force of order pervades the
universe, at variance with which no health or prosperity
is possible; that whoever is conformed to that force is
strong and happy, and that whoever thwarts it is bound
to misery and destruction.
In saying so, I do not imagine that I am announcing
anything new. 11 merely iterate what all prophets,
with one intent and in divers manners, have testified.
What is the ruling idea of the Hebrew scriptures but
this, that welfare is identical with righteousness, and
that righteousness is subservience to divine law ? As
Moses adjured Israel, “ All blessings shall come on thee
and overtake thee, if thou sbalt hearken diligently unto
the voice of the Lord thy God to do all his command¬
ments ; but if thou wilt not hearken, then all curses
shall come upon thee and overtake thee.” And king
David contributes his experience in confirmation of
Moses, “ I have seen the wicked in great power, and
spreading himself like a green bay tree; yet he passed away,
Feb. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
and, lo, lie was not: yea, I sought him, but he could
not be found.,, Israel continually lost sight of the
secret of righteousness in sensuality and ritualism,
whilst it was revived in declarations like that of
Micah, “ He hath showed thee, 0 man, what is good;
and what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to do
justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with
thy God.” And Christianity, whilst it begot fresh
motives, could no deeper go. "What better is possible
for any creature than such compliance with the
Divine Will as shall constitute him servant or son of
God ? Ho philosophy can get behind or beyond
obedience—the simple prescription of the Catechism,
the doing our duty in that state of life in which it has
pleased God to place us. St. Paul did no more than
re-enforce Moses when he wrote, “ God will render to
every man according to his deeds: eternal life to those
who patiently continue in well-doing; tribulation and
anguish to them that do not obey the truth.” In such
sayings we have the pith of all religions, and where the
pith is hidden or absent there is superfluity, or illusion,
or imposture.
“ And if so,” it may be asked, f* wherefore all these
words about Other World Order ? You tell us happi¬
ness pertains to the obedient and unhappiness to the
disobedient, but that is a very old story.”
True: I have admitted that it is a very old story;
and I have used it simply to introduce a proposition,
which seemed to me to require such introduction.
If a company of orthodox divines were asked how
the disorder of humanity could be removed, they would
reply, By each sinner getting “ a new heart,” or (in
other words) an unselfish and angelic motive created
within him. Thus, and thus only, they would say,
could a new moral world be constituted. And they
might further add, that without such creation sinners
must remain miserable sinners to eternity.
It would be much the same with a Company of
divines accounted heterodox. They might not speak so
much of the creation of a new heart as of the develop¬
ment of a seed of good in every heart; but they would
trust to the development of that seed, here or hereafter,
for the redemption of the sinner. In short, the judge¬
ment on both orthodox and heterodox benches is that
the salvation of a devil is equivocal to his conversion
into an angel.
And it is just here that ! dissent.
What I venture to maintain is, that a devil (that is
a man or woman governed by self-love) may remain a
devil, and at the same time be useful to others, com¬
fortable and prosperous. I do not require for the re¬
demption of sinners that they get “ new hearts,” or
that “ seeds of good ” be developed in them ; but tak¬
ing them as they are, I believe that they may be so
placed that their natures (such as they are) may have
full scope, and yield nothing but satisfaction to them¬
selves and their neighbours. In fine, that there may
be a Kingdom of Hell as well as a Kingdom of Heaven
in which the Divine Love and Wisdom shall incur no
reproach.
“And thus,” remarks my critic, “you do as I said.
You indeed offer a license to all iniquity.”
Surely not. My critic confounds the activity of self-
love with iniquity. Admitted that iniquity is only un¬
restrained self-love; but my argument is, that the love
of self may not only be restrained, but is restrained ;
and that under complete restraint it will yield results
wholly beneficent. The fallacy of my critic consists |
in the assumption that we cannot be righteous and en¬
joy the fruits of righteousness unless we act from un¬
selfish motives. Something like his case is thus tersely
put by Dr. J. H. Newman:—
“ All virtue and goodness tend to make men power¬
ful in this world; but they who aim at the power have
not the virtue. Again : "Virtue is its own reward, and
brings with it the truest and highest pleasures; but
they who cultivate it for the pleasure’s-sake are selfish,
not religious, and will never gain the pleasure, because
they never can have the virtue.”
Spoken from the heavenly side, so much is unques¬
tionable ; but the truth is not fully stated. Whilst the
deepest righteousness springs from love to God and
man, and is accompanied with joys ineffable, yet it is
possible to be righteous from self-love and to reap the
external benefits of righteousness. For example, a
man with the instincts of a thief, may be so happily
placed as to be a financier, and conduct himself with
energy and efficiency; knowing that if he stole he
might be detected and degraded, or, that if he did
escape detection, a policy that gave public satisfaction
would conduce most certainly to his advantage in the
long run. Thus righteous for selfish ends he enjoys the
benefits of honesty. Again : one might have no con¬
cern for the spiritual offence of gluttony, yet because
over eating is attended with certain inconveniences he
is abstemious. Thus, righteous for selfish ends, he enjoys
the rewards of temperance. Again: a man might be an
adulterer in disposition, yet from a regard for reputa¬
tion and dislike of danger and annoyance, lead a blame¬
less life. Thus, righteous for selfish ends he enjoys the
blessings of chastity. Again : one might be vindic¬
tive and cruel, and if wishes could dishonour or slay, he
would be a slanderer or murderer, yet from fear of the
law he holds his tongue and refrains from violence.
Thus, righteous for selfish ends he enjoys the fruits of
truthfulness and peace. It would be easy to extend
this catalogue and show how the divine righteousness
of love for others may be imitated by the baser right¬
eousness of love of self, and how the outward advan¬
tages are alike in either case. Indeed, the morality of
such a philosopher as Franklin was little else than the
advocacy of righteousness on the grounds of selfishness.
“ Be righteous,” was his advice, “ because righteous¬
ness tends to wealth, respect, and length of days.”
Now what I wish to point out is, that though
Franklin’s world is to a heavenly (that is a beneficent)
mind, not only imperfect but repulsive, yet it is a
practicable world; that the community wherein we
abide is largely held together by the motives to which
he appealed, and that the Kingdom of Hell is nothing
else than the assemblage of such as are held to duty by
the hope of what they may receive, and by the dread
of what they may suffer; thus contra-distinguished from
the Kingdom'of Heaven, which is the assemblage of such
as are held to duty by the love of others, and the love
of God, subordinate to which loves, be it carefully
noted, are all the motives which govern the infernal
world. The Angel includes the Devil; the Devil ex¬
cludes the Angel.
"Whilst, therefore, believing in the existence of a
Kingdom of Hell, where every creature, however im¬
perfect, will find place, satisfaction, and perfection
through association in universal humanity, no license is
thereby given to iniquity. Iniquity is the fruit of in¬
organic and disorderly self-love, and is temporary and
self-destructive, as all wise men, from Moses to Carlyle,
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1874.
assure us. Iniquity can no more be indigenous to Hell
than to Heaven. Indeed, I would say that Hell is a
kingdom characterised by the most rigid propriety,
where any infraction of order is severely repressed, and
where manners and morals are developed to the most
exquisite perfection. But how such consequences may
be predicated of a kingdom wherein self-love is su¬
preme, I reserve for another occasion.
“ LONDON SOCIETY ” ON MODERN MYSTERIES.
The last number of London Society contains a very
long and interesting article by Mr. Henry Dunphy,
barrister-at-law, on “ Modern Mysteries.” Most of it
consists of description oi Miss Cook’s seances, of which
he has seen so much, but he begins by narrating how
Spiritualism was first brought under his notice by a
gentleman whose name is not given, but is well known
to the readers of these pages—Mr. Benjamin Coleman.
Mr. Dunphy says :—
“ It is now, I think, some fifteen years since I be¬
came acquainted, quite in an accidental sort of way,
with some circumstances connected with alleged
spiritual manisfestations.
“ I was travelling on the South-Western Railway,
and when we reached the Basingstoke station, a gen¬
tleman whom I had never before seen opened the door
of my carriage and stepped in: I was seated alone in
the coupe, and he entered at once into conversation with
me. J don’t in the least remember what we first talked
about, but presume it was the weather, or some equally
original topic. We had not, however, been long together
before my new friend began to unburden himself of a
subject which evidently was uppermost in his thoughts.
He told me that he had witnessed the most amazing
phenomena; that tables had raised themselves in the
air, that knocks caused by invisible agency were heard
in different parts of the room, which responded in an
intelligent manner to questions put, and that the
medium (a mysterious young man from America) was
unquestionably in communication with spirits. He
added that Lord Brougham, Professor Paraday, and
other owners of great intellects were amongst those
anxious to discover the source of the phenomena, and
finally wound up a somewhat exciting narrative by in¬
viting me to his house to witness the manifestations. I
thought this was very kind of him, and I have been
grateful to him ever since. I did not, however, accept
his invitation, as the American gentleman in question
was unable to keep the appointment he had made to
meet us.
“ The astounding stories of my railway friend were
not of a character to be easily forgotten by one who,
rightly or wrongly, had always been disposed to believe
in the existence, or rather, in the occasional and very
exceptional appearance of what are commonly called
ghosts, or apparitions. Not that at the time I speak of
I had any personal experience on the subject. Never¬
theless, I then believed, “and do still believe, in the
occasional appearance of forms more or less material,
which, under certain conditions, may become manifest
to our senses.
“ Some persons are, no doubt, more susceptible than
others to superstitious influences, and are disposed to
take for granted a good deal of the marvellous. I can
with truth, say that I am not of the number.”
Mr. Dunphy then describes a great many of Miss
Cook’s seances, and it is very creditable to him that he
speaks out so boldly upon the very unpopular subject of
spiritual phenomena. The following is his description
of the seance which has caused so much contention :—
“ On Tuesday, the 9th of Dec. last (the first day of the
memorable fogs), I had, however, some involuntary ex¬
perience of an attempt to grasp and retain the appari¬
tion of Kate King at Mr. Cook’s. There was a seance
that night, at which the Earl and Countess of Caith¬
ness, Count de Pomar, Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. Blackburn,
of Manchester, myself, and others were present. I was
seated between Lady Caithness and Mr. Blackburn,
holding a hand of each. The apparition appeared
several times and came out into the centre of the room.
It was arrayed in a long white dress with a double
skirt, had naked feet, and wore a veil over the head,
and falling down below the waist. Count de Pomar
asked whether he might approach it; and, having ob¬
tained permission, left the circle and walked straight up
to it. Katie held out her hand, which he took, and
subsequently returned to his seat. The apparition then
advanced to the portion of the room farthest from the
cabinet, when a person, who to me was a perfect
stranger, jumped up, caught the figure round the waist,
and held it, exclaiming, “ It is the medium !” Two or
three gentlemen present rushed forward and caught
him, and a struggle ensued. I watched the result with
considerable interest, and observed that the figure ap"
peared to lose its feet and legs, and to elude the grasp,
making for that purpose a movement somewhat similar
to that of a seal in the water. It eventually disap¬
peared behind the curtain. No particle of the veil was
found in the room. The medium was subsequently
observed to be tied by the waist and sealed as when we
left her; and on being afterwards searched by the
ladies of the party (who never lost sight of her) no
white garments or veil were discovered. The medium
appeared, however, to have sustained a. nervous shock,
and complained, when first released from the tapes, of
a burning sensation in the throat. She was not, she
said, aware of anything that had passed. If the ob¬
ject of seizing the figure was to detect imposture and
discredit the medium, it signally failed; as, although
the person who made the attempt was apparently well
able to hold on to anything he might happen to clutch,
the apparition glided out of his grip, leaving no trace
of corporeal existence, or surroundings in the shape of
clothing.
“ I have not attempted in this paper to describe other
occurrences of an inexplicable character which have
come under my own observation, with and without test
conditions, in the presence of non-professional media,
and in the houses of private friends. I have preferred
to dwell upon the manifestations witnessed with the
mediumship of Miss Cook, for two reasons. Eirst,
because they were invariably conducted under strict
test conditions, and in the presence of persons of high
intelligence and character, well known for the interest
they take in the phenomena; and, secondly, because
the apparitions, being visible under the most powerful
light, and solid to the touch, must be regarded as
developments of an order higher than any previously
witnessed at this side of the Atlantic.
“I cannot, of course, expect that people who have
seen nothing of these phenomena can believe the fore¬
going. I own that I did not myself at first give credit
to the representations of the learned in such matters.
Their narrations were at right angles with all my pre-
> conceived opinions of the fitness of things; although, so
Feb. •6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
far as apparitions were concerned, I was not disposed
to doubt their possibility. There is a current of testi¬
mony in favour of their existence which it is impossible
to deny; but it was difficult for me to give in to the
idea that solid objects could be conveyed, invisibly,
through closed doors, or that heavy furniture. could be
moved without the interposition of hands. Philosophers
will say these things are absolutely impossible; never¬
theless, it is absolutely certain that they do occur.
Thousands of persons can attest the fact. I have met
in the houses of private friends, as witnesses of these
phenomena, persons whose testimony would go for a
good deal in a court of justice. They have included
peers, members of parliament, diplomatists of the
highest rank, judges, barristers, physicians, clergymen,
members of learned societies, chemists, engineers,
journalists, and thinkers of all sorts of degrees. They
have suggested, and carried into effect, tests of the most
rigid and satisfactory character. The media (all non¬
professional) have been searched before and after seances.
The precaution has even been taken of providing them,
unexpectedly, with other apparel. They have been
tied; they have been sealed *, they have been secured
in every cunning and dexterous manner that ingenuity
could devise, but no deception has been discovered and
no imposture brought to light; Neither was there any
motive for imposture. No fee or reward of any kind
depended upon the success or non-success of the mani¬
festations.
“It would seem, then, that the time has come for
directing public opinion to these extraordinary occur¬
rences. There may be, after all, nothing novel in them.
They may be as old as the Witch of Endor; but,
whether new or antiquated, it is desirable that their
existence should be admitted, and that the delusion
should be dispelled that the limits of scientific knowledge
have been reached.”
SPIRIT FORMS.
For many years, at dark seances in England, spirit
voice manifestations have been known, and such mani¬
festations have always been connected with, the forma¬
tion of spirit hands. When these hands have been
seen, while the mediums have been held or bound with
sealed tapes and ropes, or otherwise secured, the hands
have sometimes been found to be the duplicates of those
of the medium, and sometimes not so; It is on record
that at one of the Davenport seances, while an observer
was in the act of closing the door of the cabinet, the
duplicate of the hand of one of the Davenport Brothers
and of his coat-sleeve, came out and clawed the hair
of the investigator, who pulled the door open and saw
the mediums bound as he had seen them but an instant
previously. At rare intervals also, other parts of the
forms were seen, and sometimes faces of the mediums
were seen in duplicate. Later still spirit-form mani¬
festations have become known in England, and were
found to be directly connected with the spirit
voice and face manifestations which had for so
many years previously been known, for the “John
Kings ” and “ Katies ” now began to show themselves
through the.mediumship of Mr. Williams, Miss Cook,
Mr. Egerton, Mr. Herne, Mrs. Guppy, and others, and
the surprise was great when it was discovered in
all these cases that many of the spirit faces were the
duplicates of those of the mediums, although it was ab¬
solutely certain, in consequence of tests that had been
often applied, that the majority of the mediums did not
produce the manifestations by imposture.
An important point was raised by a correspondent in
a letter published in The Spiritualist last week,
whether since neither iron rings, nor ropes, nor tapes
are proof against spirit power (for the spirits can very
quickly get mediums in and out of such bonds) ;
the spirits did not sometimes release the mediums and
exhibit them in the state of unconscious trance ? Ap¬
parently not, for the following reasons : On one, two, or
three occasions Mr. Williams is said to have been seen
at the same time as the spirit form, but not
in a strong light, and the witnesses have not said
whether they saw clearly that both the forms were
living and breathing. Then we have the testimony of
Mrs. Burns, that once she held Mr. Williams whilst the
likeness of John King was being drawn, as he stood at
the opening of the cabinet. Mr. Harrison also recently
held Mr. Williams’s arm at a public seance, whilst his
double, or “ John King ” in white drapery, appeared
over the centre of the table; it was clearly Mr.
Williams’s double in white drapery, so far as external
form was concerned, and on this occasion John King
had on no great black beard. A remark by Mr. Glynes
somewhat intimates that at the seance with Prince
Wittgenstein, at Buckingham Palace Hotel, John King
had not his black beard. All Mrs. Burns and Mr.
Harrison can say is, that they held Mr. Williams by
his arm or hand; the natural assumption is that the
rest of his body was near also. In both cases the
double was too far off, for the real bust of Mr.
Williams to be in that position by any natural means.
In the case of Miss Cook, Mrs. Bassett, who was a
comparative stranger to her, was one evening tied up
and sealed with her in the cabinet; Miss Cook Was tied
up with her head reclining in Mrs. Bassett’s lap.
Shortly afterwards Mrs. Bassett said she saw Katie in
white robes, standing in one corner of the cabinet; she
then came out into the room; Mrs. Bassett stated that
her hands were then still upon the head of Miss Cook,
who was in a trance. A week or so after this strong
testimony in favour of Miss Cook had been published,
Mrs. Bassett visited Mr. Guppy’s house, and what took
place there may or may not be supposed to depreciate
the value of her testimony, for it was directly after she
had given this testimony that the affair took place in
connection with the youth James Clark, who had been
hard at work for a long time in preparing and altering
Mrs. Guppy’s cabinet before Mrs. Bassett entered it. A
splendid seance once took place with Mr. Herne, at
which some scientific men soldered him with wires to
a table, and to the bars of a grate; the results were
lost to the public because the witnesses were morally
too timid to publish the same, but as spirits can get
mediums in and out of bonds, this excellent seance gave
no proof of duplication of form, or the reverse. Mrs.
Guppy’s face seances, as a rule, have not taken place
under test conditions, for with few exceptions the faces
surrounded with white drapery, which appeared when
we were present more than a year ago, came in so dim
a light that it was impossible to say whether they were
living or dead. Mr. Guppy has published in these
pages that the faces he has seen through her medium-
ship strong resemble her about the eyes and nose, and
one day when we felt one of them it was solid enough.
Thus the faces, through Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship,
resemble those which have been seen through other
mediums under better test conditions.
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1874.
The general tendency of these facts is in favour of
the duplication of form theory, but cannot be said, as
yet, to demonstrate it absolutely. The spirits them¬
selves assert, when questioned separately, at the seances
of Miss Cook and Mr. Williams, that the forms they
show are of full weight, one-half of that weight being
taken from the medium, and the other half from the
sitters; they also assert that the medium is in the
cabinet, and is ;of half weight for the time being. If
this is not true, they are low spirits practising decep¬
tion. The spirit faces through these two mediums,
have a power of flotation, which we have never seen in
connection with the full forms. Katie has been seen
at the opening of Miss Cook’s cabinet, when there has
been nothing inside it high enough for an external full
form, like that of the medium, to stand upon, and when
Mr. Williams’s “ John King,” living and speaking,
showed himself over the centre of the table, that form
had undoubtedly no legs.
Materialism demands material phenomena from the
spirit world. If the readers of these lines were spirits
divorced from direct control of matter, but most in
alliance with the matter surrounding the spirit of their
medium, they would be obliged to do the best they
could with the appliances Avithin their grasp. This
speculation, which is good enough to work upon till
better knowledge dawns, helps to give a clue to the
explanation of many observed facts.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.*
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VAY.
I believe that Spiritualism will prove to be the great
harmonising religion of the future, and that we are but at the
beginning of its onward march. I therefore hold it to be a
duty on the part of every Spiritualist to give mankind the
results of home studies and personal experiences.
In Austria and Hungary, Spiritualism is almost unknown;
still we have a spiritual society, under the presidency of Mr.
Constantin Delhy, at Vienna, and under that of Dr. Griinhut,
at Pesth ; but I will begin by narrating to you how the phe¬
nomena first appeared in my home. From childhood I was
taught to regard mesmerism as something most injurious to
health. I remember when I was a child, in the years 1851-
52, when there was much talk about “table turning,” my
sister and I tried the thing, and our small children’s table was
soon galloping under our hands. The grown-up ones thought
we were only playing, but they soon discovered that their
heavy table also moved, when I put my hands upon it. My
dear mother soon forbade all table-turning, saying it was the
“devil,” and this belief I faithfully maintained until I
married, a step in life which occurred when I was very young
and childish.
I suffered much the first year after my marriage from pain¬
ful cramps. In 1865, we met a mesmerist at Pesth, who told
me, after looking at my forehead, that I was certainly a clair-
voyante and a writing medium, a remark which filled me with
suspicious fears. I did not understand the meaning of his
words, but he stated that automatic writing would surely
relieve me of my cramp. I, however, dismissed this idea alto¬
gether, knowing, as I told him, that mesmerism was of the
devil.
On another occasion, when suffering from awful cramp,
I felt so desperate, that I begged my husband to give me a
lead pencil, saying, ‘ ‘ Now it’s all the same to me, whether it’s
the devil or no, if only it will help me.” I took pencil and
paper, and to my great astonishment and terror, I felt my arm
violently shaken, and saw broad letters written without
having any idea what the words were. An old friend mani¬
fested, and gave us prophecies, which were soon afterwards
* The following books have been written through the mediumship of
Baroness Vay:—Betrachtungen fiir Alle (Meditations for All), von Adelma,
and Geisi Kraft Staff (Materials for Spirit Power), von Vay; both books
published by Rudolf Lechner, l£arnthen Strasse, Vienna. A third book,
with a few engravings of the medial drawings of Baron Vay, is coming out
at Leipsic, entitled Studien in der Geisterwelt; or, Studies of Spirit Life.
Oswald Mutze.—Ed.
fulfilled. This spirit also begged me to let him write, saying
that it would heal all my cramps, which in the course of time
proved to be true. My husband and myself were strongly
moved. I could not sleep the whole night. Next morning
I prayed fervently to God to take this power from me, if bad,
or to guide me in the right use of it, if good. I saw that
there was a power acting independently of my thoughts, as it
wrote mechanically upon subjects I was not thinking about.
I continued the writing. Several spirits wrote most fluently ;
some told us astounding truths ; others lied. I gave several
tests, and answered sealed letters. The tests, when they came
spontaneously, were perfect; when they were asked for and
forced, they failed totally, though 1 concentrated my will¬
power upon the writing; so I saw that there was a leading
will beyond mine. My leading spirits announced themselves
as Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Buddha ; they told us to
heal through mesmerism and homoeopathy, and from the year
1865 till this day, they have led us in a path of instruction,
love, and godly wisdom. My husband soon became a medium
through my mesmerising him, but only for drawing ; he never
could write a single word. Through his mediumship we
obtained, during these years, many most curious drawings, of
good and high spirits, with long luminous hair, which was
said to be their “ fluid; ” often they had crowns or turbans of
light upon their heads: then came pictures of bad or low spirits,
with all kinds of ugly horns, often like tails. . My hus¬
band had, whilst drawing the likeness of a good spirit,
an agreeable odic feeling; but whilst drawing low
ones, he often ;had a spasm in the throat. He made,
through Humboldt’s spirit, drawings of animals from the
planet Mercury, and of plants and trees from Venus. While
my mediumship was fast developing, we heard through a
physician of the spirit-circle of Delhy at Vienaa, and we
obtained Kardec’s books and the Revue Spirite to read. We
were most astonished and rejoiced to find that they contained
nothing new, but only the confirmation of all that we
onrselves knew and had experienced.
Several spirits, especially dear Buddha, had told us about
re-incarnation; others, lower ones, had denied it. Many held
it as a truth, and now we found this doctrine freely expressed
in Kardec’s books. For my part, I had a hard antipathy, a
dislike to the idea of re-incarnation ; I would not hear of it ;
now I see in this doctrine the great way of progress and
God’s love.
Buddha and Mary helped us to heal many hundreds of
sick people who came to us. We healed many of what our
leading spirits called “ spirit obsession.” In our book,
Studien in der Geisterwelt, we mention a few of the most
curious cures. Through the conversion of the bad spirit
whose influence once made sick, many patients were cured of
epilepsy, madness, and convulsions of all sorts. In the same
book, we publish some most curious revelations by different
spirits, which were all written through my hand with great
rapidity, without my knowing what I wrote. Handwritings
have been often thus given of departed ones, so as to be recog¬
nised as identical with that which they wrote when on earth.
Healing often came spontaneously.
In the second year of my mediumship, I began to see
visions in a glass of water, and upon window-panes, quite un¬
expectedly. The looking into the water-glass was now our
chief amusement, to me quite delicious and highly interest¬
ing ; I not only saw numbers of spirits of all kinds in it, but
also incidents which afterwards actually took place, as
beautiful allegorical pictures, were explained to us by spirit
writing. In this way I saw in my water glass, before they
occurred, many occurrences in political, social, and family life.
We often got warnings of the most useful kind.
The first book we published, Betrachtungen fur Alle, is a
simple prayer-book, written by several spirits. Re-incar¬
nation was always maintained; we got many proofs of its
truth. I will here only mention three proofs. We cured a peasant
of epilepsy ; the bad spirit, through whose influence he fell
into convulsions, was converted, and begged to be re-incar¬
nated in the body of this man’s wife ; the higher spirits said,
“God would allow it as an atonement for her former sins.”
So I told the good peasant, “ You will have a girl child,
whose godmother I shall be.” The man, highly astonished
and somewhat shocked, said, “ Dear lady, hoW should we get
a child ? I am a grandfather ; my wife, who is old, has
had no child for twelve years ? ” After a lapse of ten
months I was asked to come to the peasant’s cottage, as his
wife had got a girl, whose godmother I had promised to be ;
so the spirit had kept her word. The child died in its fifth
month, and manifested itself then, as a most happy spirit,
Feb. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
■who had been justified through incarnation and earthly death.
Some friends of ours lost their boy, a child they ardently
loved ; his spirit manifested itself to me, and said, that he
had come out of impatience too soon upon earth; his mission
would only begin in two years ; that then he again would be
re-incarnated as a boy by the same parents. All was fulfilled,
though the mother was very sick ; she got the boy back, after
the lapse of two years. .
I had from my childhood the feeling that a guillotine had
cut oft my head. I often mentioned this to my dear gover¬
ness, and my conviction was, that I should be guillotined in a
great revolution. A deep love for unhappy Marie Antoinette,
a keen interest in the French Revolution, was noticeable in
me. You can well imagine my astonishment, when, on
becoming a medium, Buddha told me that I had been one of
the victims of the French Revolution, Princess L . It
seems quite incomprehensible. And thus was explained the
mystery of feeling the guillotine on my neck. Once I went to
see a trustworthy somnambulist; his first words were, while I
was not at all at that moment thinking of my guillotine,:—
“ Do you remember when you were Princess L . Your
head was cut off ? Then you came back to this sad earth out
of love.” Two years later I met a Jewish blind seeress, who
described most distinctly, though materially blind, all people
and spirits who were about her. As I approached her she
stammered—“ I see a cut off head near your head, and hea)
the name L .” Here she spelled out the same name
which Buddha and the first somnamlule had given me ; the
remark made an awful and disagreeable impression upon me.
I have a dread of Paris, which town I never wish to see.
So, the fact that re-incarnation takes place as a means of
progress, purification, and atonement, presents itself as proved
to us. So, too, the fact, that under certain laws, bad spirits
have a sickening power, and good ones a healing power, over
mankind.
Gonobity, Austria; Styria via Graz,
January 24th, 1874.
The National Association.—A Council meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists was held last
Monday evening, atl, Great College-street, Westminster, S.W.
Mr. Thomas Everitt, president pro tern., occupied the chair.
The following gentlemen were elected as honorary correspond¬
ing members, viz. :—Mrs. CoraL. Y. Tappan ; Mr. Robert Dale
Owen, Boston, ,U. S.; Mr. Joseph Mylne, of Calcutta; and
Mr. C. Constant, of Smyrna. The draft prospectus, as pre¬
pared by the committee, was considered and referred to the
next meeting of the Council. Other business having been
transacted, the meeting broke up.
Spieitualism. —Mr. T. L. Harris says in his hook,
The Millenial Age:—“The mistake is this, persons imagine
that they can develope themselves into Biblical spiritual gifts
as a pastime, or iir experiments—that they can call out within
themselves tremendous faculties of conception and execution,
unroll organ after organ, as night, when she comes up with all
her multitude of stars, and at the same time, be hand-in-glove
with all the corruptions of the moral, or the social world. It
is infinitely impossible. God could not do it, because it
would be against the laws of moral rectitude and infinite
harmony. Now those who make a mere play of Spiritualism,
will find that in the long run it will do one of two things,
disgust them or ruin them. A large class will fly back dis¬
gusted with the miserableness or meanness of the results. The
fault is not in God; the fault is not in the universe, which is
a revelation of the infinite affluence of God ; nor in heaven
which is a sublime art-picture of the beauty and the perfect¬
ness of God. The fault is, that they utterly mistake the con¬
ditions upon which depend the accession of spiritual faculties.
. . . And so you will find as you tread this path, and that it all
depends upon the moral rectitude of purpose, or the virgin
purity of will, on the strict simplicity with which in all our
powers we yield the being, not for our own ends, but for the
Divine ends.. . . Men seek the gifts of the spirit in order that
they may gather possessions to themselves, and these gifts of
the spirit turn against them. Here is the sword of the spirit;
it lies before every man; he can grasp it, if he will, and carve
his way to victory; but if he wishes to have that sword of the
spirit for the purpose of carving the way to any selfish aim
and end, it will not be the hilt that God will hold towards
him, but the point; and as the man rushes on towards his
end; he only rushes upon the point of that blade, and falls
transfixed before the presence of the Creator,”
SPIRITUALISM AT. WANDSWORTH.
Last Tuesday night an inspirational lecture was delivered
by Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, under the presidency of Mr.
James Thornton Hoskins, of the Reform Club, at the Shaftes¬
bury Park Estate Hall, Wandsworth, London.
The Chairman, after a graceful allusion to the great services
Mrs. Cora Tappan had rendered to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism, proceeded to answer various objections raised
by opponents. He contended that the facts either exist, or do
not. If the former, Spiritualism is true. If the latter hypo¬
thesis be maintained, the evidence could not have existed.
The opposition to Spiritualism rests upon the assumption that
many millions of honest, sane, independent witnesses can give
false testimony to the existence and innumerable manifesta¬
tions of a greater number of spiritual gifts than those
enumerated by St. Paul. He said there was, in the history
of the world, no analogous instance of persons separated from
one another by long intervals of time and space, testifying to
circumstances, which had no foundation in fact. The up¬
holders, in short, of the “ imposture theory ” evinced an
amount of amazing incredulity, bordering upon idiotcy.
After a logical exposure of the equally absurd “ devil
theory,” which he showed to be very far from original, and
an amusing disclaimer of going so far as Taotse, the
ancient Chinese Reformer, who held that materialists were
“the fools and imbeciles of creation,” he contended that,
nevertheless, these gentlemen, when they quitted their own
special departments of scientific investigation, should, like
anyone else, be content to graduate humbly in the spiritual
school. They should refrain from hasty pronunciations against
the movement, on mere a priori grounds. The chairman con¬
cluded his address with allusions to Assyrian, Grecian, Chal¬
dean, Hindoo, and Scandinavian spiritual gifts. Modern
manifestations were, he thought, calculated to establish on a
firm scientific basis that Bible which, looked at from the
spiritual standpoint, is at once the oldest and the newest
book in the world.
Mrs. Tappan then gave an inspirational address, which was
listened to with great interest and attention. At its close,
several questions were asked by the listeners, and answered
by Mrs. Tappan; after which the meeting broke up.
The Antheopological Institute.—At the annual
meeting of the Anthropological Institute, held recently at 4,
St. Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, Professor George Busk,
F.R.S., was re-elected president. Mr. George Harris, F.S.A.,
asked what had become of the Psychological Committee,
which has held no meetings for a long time, but could not
get a satisfactory reply.
Mesmeeic Statistics.—During the many years that the
Mesmeric Infirmary, founded by Dr. Elliotson, was in ex¬
istence, records were kept from day to day in writing, of the
results of the mesmerising of every patient in the establish¬
ment, so that the most valuable and complete series of
mesmeric statistics in the world, were to be found in the
books of the Infirmary. Within a week after the Infirmary
was closed, some two or three years ago, Mr. Harrison tried
to secure these statistics by calling upon Dr. Chandler, the
superintendent of the Infirmary, about them. Dr. Chandler
told him he had left them in the hands of Mr. Fradelle, the
secretary to the Infirmary, and that he did not know Mr.
Fradelle’s private address, and Mr. Harrison, to his great re¬
gret, was unable to give the time to discover the residence of
the late secretary. A long time afterwards he gave Mr.
Frederick Collingwood, secretary to the Anthropological
Society, the address of Dr. Chandler (King-street, Finsbury-
square,) and requested him to urge the Psychological Com¬
mittee of the Anthropological Institute, to take steps to obtain
possession of these unique statistics, and Mr. Collingwood
said that he would attend to the matter. A fortnight ago
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, caused systematic at¬
tempts to be made to obtain the books if possible, and with
much difficulty it was ascertained that Mr. Fradelle was dead,
that his widow then had left England, but had since returned
again, and had taken up her abode at 128, Adrian-terrace,
West Brompton. She was called upon, and gave the informa¬
tion that at her request her son-in-law had long since sold the
manuscript books of the Mesmeric Infirmary for waste paper.
Thus the most valuable mesmeric statistics ever collected,
have been lost, because Spiritualists have had no National
Association or individual representative to attend to public
business connected with the movement. The loss in this case
is irreparable,
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
LECTURE BY MRS. TAPPAN.
Last Sunday night Mrs. Cora Tappan delivered an inspira¬
tional address, at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Port-
land-road, under the .presidency of Mr. T. Herbert Noyes,
jun,, B.A., who opened the service by reading a chapter from
the Bible, after which the anthem “ I will arise” was sung.
Mrs. Tappan then passed' into the trance state, and
uttered the following inspirational prayer :—“ Our Father,
Thou living spirit, Thou abiding light, Thou living soul, not
more beauteous is the central orb of all the worlds, not more
radiant is the sun by day, or the stars of the firmament by
night, than Thy truth within the soul; even as the light of
the soul Thou dost illumine our spirits. Thou dost abide with
us in the wilderness of time, Thou dost beacon us over the
weary waste of waters, and the soul is strengthened by Thee.
Thy spirit speaketh to man, but the discords of earth, and the
contentions of humanity, drown the ineffable sweetness of
Thy voice. Because of the passions of men, of their ma¬
terialism and their darkness, oh let them know that Thou art
in every time and place, in the lowest as well as in the highest
places of earth ; even where sin and crime abound, is Thy
presence. Thou art in the ocean and in the desert, and the
voices of the winds for ever breathe anthems to Thee. The
sea utters its sound of praise, every flower of spring-time
opens its sweet lips in praises unto Thee, and the stars in the
firmament shine responsive to Thy light. Shall, then, the
spirit immortal alone be voiceless ? Shall man build up ex¬
ternal temples upon earth whilst in the spirit is no responsive
echo ? Teach them that transcending sounds, and physical
praises, and the words of the lips, are the thoughts of the
spirit, the uplifting of the soul to that which is pure and en¬
nobling, and with more than lip service, may we proclaim our
love to Thee. Thou canst see, hear, and know, the secret
parts in every soul, and know when the soul itself is respon¬
sive to Thee. Oh Thou searcher of hearts, let us be pure, and
true, and good, let us cultivate those gifts which will bring us
nearer to Thee, and which make the weak strong. Let us
know that in condemning our fellows we always condemn our¬
selves. Let us have charity. Oh, Divine Soul, we would
worship Thee in every deed of our lives, and in every offering
of praise that springs to our lips now and for evermore.
Amen.”
A hymn, “ Thy will my God be done,” was then sung.
Mrs. Tappan, still in the trance state, said that she would
choose as the subject of her discourse verses from the twelfth
chapter of St. Paul’s Epistle to the Corinthians, “ Concerning
spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. . . .
For to one is given by the spirit the word of wisdom ; to
another the word of knowledge by the same spirit; to another
the gifts of healing by the same spirit ; to another the work¬
ing of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning
of spirits ; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the
interpretation of tongues.’’ She said that immediately after
the first manifestations of the power of .Jesus among His
disciples, spiritual gifts fell not only upon the apostles, but
upon many others who received and were influenced by His
teachings. At all times, and in'all ages, religious revivals have
been accompanied by similar manifestations, but whenever the
letter of religion takes the place of the spirit, and forms and
ceremonies usurp the place of true religion, the dawning of a
new erais at hand, and that new era is always accompanied by
the development of spiritual gifts. But when a man breaks
away from his old fastnesses, and gives way to the new spirit,
there is always some disorder, which is one reason why Paul
was obliged to warn the early Christians concerning their
conduct before men. The popular religious teachers of the
day state that there can be in these times no gifts of the
spirit. She would ask, “ Why not?’’ There was nothing in
the teachings of Christ and His disciples to show that these
gifts would not exist wherever the spirit was to be found.
Why then had these gifts died out from the Christian Church ?
Believers had been promised them, and notwithstanding the
great power and force of Christian belief, the fact that
spiritual gifts were not to be found in its ecclesiastical
bodies, was a strong point for the consideration of the
public. Spiritual gifts were once known both inside and
outside the Catholic Church, and both before and after
the Reformation. Luther and Calvin were the recipients
of some of those gifts which Paul enumerated, and most un¬
questionably Swedenborg had these gifts in profusion, although
the fact was denied by the greater portion of Christendom.
These spiritual gifts lie dormant in the human family, always
ready to make their appearance when desired. Buddha had
many of the gifts of Christ; the Persians, the Hindoos, and
Feb. 6, 1874.
other nations of the east, had at times a pouring out of the
Divine spirit upon them. But what about the great number
of modern Christians with their temples rising to heaven, and
filled with millions of devotees ? How was it that where there
was so much enthusiasm allied to the temporal power, the gifts
of the spirit did not abide also ? They were told by those in
authority that the Church was in danger, and that some of this
danger was due to Spiritualism, but the truth was that the real
weakness was inside the Church itself, for within the Church
its strongest enemies were to be found in the shape of the
literal nature and the materialism of its worship. With the
acquisition of property and power, dimness of sight in rela¬
tion to spiritual things often comes over the churches, and as
the power of Church and State grows, negligence about
spiritual gifts grows also, until the teachers lose the blessings
of the spirit, and the power of communion with the divine
mind. Still its teachers talk of the gifts of the spirit, but
contend that they are now at an end, because in their own ranks
they have no healing of the sick, no working of miracles, and no
speaking with tongues, for mammon holds the reins of power
instead of the divine spirit. If this was plain speaking, it
was because she spoke only of things which might be read by
men even while they ran; it was not claimed nor intended to
be claimed, that Spiritualism was a new advent of religion,
but it had unfolded not only a philosophy, but a continuous
chain of spiritual laws, clearly proving that man in every
age has been subject to spiritual things. At the present day
materialism was to be seen bowing the knee before the tem¬
poral shrine, while within the heart was doubt and misgiving.
What did these signs of the times portend ? The mission of
Spiritualism in the world was to rescue mankind from the
thraldom of materialism and doubt; it did not come as a
special visitation, but in accordance with established laws,
which abide as eternally in the spiritual as in the material
world. If what she stated were not true, how was it that the
blind are now made to see, and that the sick are healed ?
How was it some have the gift of voice, and some the gift of
vision ? How was it that the sight of spirits was common
throughout the land? Why were young babes made the
mouth-pieces of spiritual intelligences? Why was it that a
flood, of spiritual thought was now flowing over the civilised
world, bearing one solemn sound, like the monotone of the
sea “ spirits are with you ?” The fact that these things
occurred, that they were welcomed on the one hand, and
were anathematised on the other, was a proof that they were
true and needful. They were not supernatural; it was not
beyond nature, nor was it dispensation of. a special theolo¬
gical character. Spiritualism only proved that mankind has
always possessed this spiritual nature, and may always
receive inspiration so long as it is willing to receive it, but
that as materialism and love of the world increase, the latter
by natural law take the place of the spirit, and external
formalities take the place of the verities of the abiding soul.
In Christendom there were to be found on the one hand a
theology divided among its members, ■ and on the other
materialism declaring that man has no soul at all, and
it was universally acknowledged that a house divided
against itself could not stand; some solvent was there¬
fore needed to bind these warring elements together once
more. Facts were wanted whereby materialists should
be compelled to acknowledge an outside and superior power,
and Spiritualism came with these proofs just at the right time,
bringing also knowledge of the existence of departed friends.
Man has of late grown blind in spirit, deaf in soul, because of
his closing the avenues of communion with the world beyond
the grave. It was said by the doubter that it was “ not per¬
mitted that these things should be.” John, the revelator, had
said that nothing should be added to or taken from that book,
but nothing had ever been said by seer or sage to the effect
that there should not be another advent of the spirit upon
earth ; indeed, prophets had pointed out that all those who
believed should have the gifts of the spirit, and the facts spoke
for themselves, for they actually existed, unless the testimony
of more than thirty millions of human beings now living could
be denied. Unless her hearers could disprove the reality of
the phenomena, they would have to admit that they did exist,
and if they existed, they ought to subject them to the closest
scrutiny. They might search for these gifts of the spirit them¬
selves, and they would find them, more or less, though much
depended upon the bodily organisation of each individual.
The reason so little was known about the gifts of the spirit
could be readily explained, for what were the laws held up for
the reverence and obedience of the young ? If a child said
to its mother, “ I saw a beautiful angel last night; he came to
me in dreams, and brought my darling brother;” the mother
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
Feb. 6, 1874.
would say, “ It is only a dream—nothing but imagination,”
and the child would be told it must not encourage such fancies.
If it goes further, and says that it plays with its brother, it is
rebuked, and told that that brother is dead. Thus, the clear
vision of the child is cut off in early age, instead of being culti¬
vated like other gifts. If the child persists in seeing visions
and dreaming dreams, then the doors of a lunatic asylum are
opened for its entrance, or the physician is called in to
drive away the power by means of drugs—a course of materia
medica is prescribed to take away the effects of the imagina¬
tion. Such children might have grown up as seers, had the
gift been properly cultivated. Nearly everybody has at times
premonitions or intuitive warnings of coming danger, but this
same inordinate reason binds the recipients to silence, and the
voice within is drowned by the cry of foolishness. The edu¬
cation of the schools gives no opening for spirituality; indeed,
ignores the existence of the spiritual faculties; but strains
every nerve and every sinew to their task in other departments.
For the spiritual faculties there is no word of' encourage¬
ment, and intuition is never mentioned in schools. The
poet, however, is privileged and allowed the wings of
imagination ; he may discourse of the beauties of the spirit-
land, but that is only poetic license. The state of thought
among the materialists of the outside world is such, that an
acrobat is now more admired than a Spiritualist. In the
darkness of the Mammoth Caves of Kentucky there are stag¬
nant pools in which are fishes without eyes, for eyes would be
of no use to them there. Perhaps in like manner many are
now born blind—without spiritual eyes—since such gifts
cannot now be exercised in the midst of the dark materialism
of the outside world.
After the singing of another hymn, the service came to a
close.
(Eurwptt&etue.
[Ch'eat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT FORMS.
Sir,—I was much pleased with the intelligent letter in your
last number from “ M. R. S,” on the subject of the late out¬
rage at a spirit circle.
Having been privileged to attend more than thirty seances,
at which Miss Cook has been the medium, and having made
notes of many, if not nearly all of them, it may interest
“ M. R. S.,” and those of your readers who have not witnessed
these most remarkable manifestations, if I state the result of
some of my own observations with regard to the much dis¬
puted question of the identity of the spirit “ Katie,” apart
from that of the medium at these seances.
I have, in common with others, been struck with the
occasional resemblance of the features of “ Katie,” when
materialised, to those of her medium, but the points of
difference between the two, are to me—who have watched
very closely at fall times—still more remarkable, not only as
regards features, but as regards height, bulk, &c. When the
circle is small and harmonious, and the medium in good health
and good humour, the resemblance is scarcely perceptible
between “ Katie ’’and Miss Cook.
I was the first visitor who saw “ Katie” in the full form.
There was scarcely any resemblance on that occasion.
“ Katie,” with her naked feet flat on the floor, stood five feet six
inches high. She was stout and broad across the waist and
shoulders, quite a contrast to her medium, who is much
shorter and petite in figure. For a detailed description
of this then extraordinary manifestation, I will refer your
readers to my letter in The Spiritualist of 1st March last.
“Katie” has frequently stood by me, and leaned against
me, at seances, for several minutes together, permitting me to
thoroughly scan her face and figure in a good light. I have
also been permitted often to touch (but never to grasp) her.
At one sitting, she laid her right arm in my outstretched
hands, and allowed me to closely examine it. It was
plump and shapely, longer than that of the medium. The
hands, too, were much larger, with beautifully shaped nails.
I may here state that Miss Cook, ever since I have known her,
has had a bad habit of biting her nails almost to the roots.
I then held the arm lightly in one hand, and passed my other
hand along it from the shoulder. The skin was beautifully—
1 might say, unnaturally—smooth, like wax or marble ; yet
the temperature was that of the healthy human body.
There, was, however, no hone in the wrist. I lightly felt
round the wrist again, to make sure of this beyond doubt,
and then told “ Katie ” that the bone was wanting. She
laughed, and said, “wait a bit,” and after going about to
the other sitters, came round and placed her arm in my hand,
as before. Sure enough, the bone was then there / I joked her
on this point, and also said what fine finger nails she had got.
She took hold of my hand, turned it quickly round, and gave
a vigorous scratch on the back of it that raised the skin and
drew blood. This excellent test has also been given to other
sitters. I have had it on two occasions.
In two instances I have seen Katie with long ringlets
reaching to her waist, the hair being of a light brown colour.
The medium’s hair is cut short, it is not curled, and its colour
is very dark brown, almost black.
Katie’s eyes are sometimes a light blue colour, sometimes
dark brown. This difference has been noticed very frequently.
On one occasion Katie, on coming out of her cabinet, held
up her right arm, which was of a dusky black colour. Letting
it fall by her side, and raising it again almost instantaneously,
it was the usual flesh colour like the other arm.
One evening, recently, I made some jesting remark to
Katie, who stood near me, when she suddenly struck me
heavily in the chest with her clenched fist. I was startled
and, indeed, hurt by the unexpected blow : so much so, that
I inadvertently caught hold of her right arm by the wrist.
Her wrist crumpled in my grasp like a piece of paper or thin
cardboard, my fingers meeting together through it. I let go
at once, and expressed my regret that I had forgotten the
conditions, fearing that harm to the medium might ensue, but
Katie reassured me, saying, that as my act was not intentional,
she could avert any untoward result.
I could give many other curious instances, but will not
further occupy your space, except to state, that when these
manifestations first commenced, I seriously questioned Katie
as to what the result would be if the conditions were broken.
She affirmed that her medium would probably be killed, or
much hurt. Not quite satisfied, I put a similar question to a
well known trance medium (who had never sat with Miss
Cook), and got a like reply. At the close of one of the
Wednesday discourses at Gower-street, I asked the spirit con¬
trolling Mrs. Tappan, “ What would be the result to the
medium and the sitters, if the materialised form were grasped
at or detained ? ” The answer was, “ Death or serious injury
to the mediv/ni, possibly harm to yourselves.,'
In conclusion, I cheerfully take this opportunity of testify¬
ing my firm belief, based upon close and repeated observation
at these seances, in the good faith and integrity of Miss Cook
and her family, and I heartily thank them and their friends
for permitting me, without fee or reward, to enjoy the privi¬
lege of constant attendance at their circle, whereby I have
been greatly aided in my study and investigation of that
most extraordinary phenomenon of this our day, modern
Spiritualism. George Robert Tapp.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
INNER BREATHING.
Sir,—In continuation of my former letter on this subject,
I begin with the following short extract from “ The Redeemed
Body,” one of T. L. Harris’s sermons, given at page 131 of
the Millennial Aye. It shows that he considers the develop¬
ment of the “ inner breathing ” as an essentially spiritual
{i.e. religious) combat:—
“ We are on the eve of the conquest of the body by the
Divine Spirit. The first evidence of this is, that respiration,
which is a physical process with almost all in the world, with
those who have passed most deeply into the conditions of the
new time on which we are entering, has so changed its form
that now it is consciously a spirit-breathing from God, the
Lord, in the inner being, descending into the lungs of the
natural organisation, and so bringing the outward respiratory
system into harmony with—what shall I say ?—not alone with
the respirations of the internal spirit in man, but through that
into harmony with the respirations of Deity.
“ For God breathes. . . . And every act of conversion and
quickening upon the part of the creature is throughout the
Scriptures traced directly to the breath of God inflowing into
the lungs of the moral nature, filling up the respiratories of
the soul.
“When the man begins to breathe from God, through the
spiritual lungs into the natural, then the redemption of the
body has begun.”
Again, referring to the mental conflict that often comes to
spiritually minded people, he says
70
THE SPIKITUALIST.
“ The young Christian thinks that Christ has killed all his
foes, but he soon discovers that Christ has killed none of his
foes, but that he has simply descended into his own heart and
energised the will ; and that now, in the strength of Christ
dwelling in him, he has first of all to grapple with the inverted
passions that have taken up their habitation within him.”
It is only in the early editions of Madame Guyon’s life that
we meet with a full account of her experiences, which cor¬
respond closely with much that is known to be the develop¬
ment for the “inner breathing.” It is greatly to be deplored
that many editors of the present day make a practice of sup¬
pressing all such mystical experiences—mystical only to those
who do not read them in the light that Spiritualism alone can
throw upon them. Not having this edition at hand, I will
now give some short extracts from the Life of George Fox.
The perceptible influence of the Holy Spirit in the mind of
man was the fundamental doctrine of the founder of the
Quaker sect. He often speaks of having “ openings from the
Lord,” sometimes coming in the form of “ outer,” sometimes
“ inner ” voices. By these spiritual communications he was
guided, and taught of matters far beyond, and in most
respects different to the orthodox notions of the day.
At times he was under great spiritual conflict, and “ many
temptations beset him,” insomuch, that when it was day he
wished for night, and when it was night he longed for the
coming morning. But these states alternated with those of
intense joy. “I cannot,” he says, “ declare the misery I -was
in, it was so great and heavy upon me; so neither can I set
forth the mercies of God to me, in my misery. .... When
my torments and troubles were great, then was His love
exceeding great.”
Whilst he was in this, distressing state of mind, he says he
“ heard a voice as in the secret recesses of his soul, saying,
‘ There is one, even Christ Jesus, that can speak to thy condi¬
tion.' When I heard it,” he adds, “ my heart did leap for
joy. . . . Thus when God doth ’work, who shall let (i. e., pre¬
vent) it. My desires after the Lord grew stronger, and zeal in
the pure knowledge of God and Christ alone, without the help
of any man, book, or writing. For though I read the
Scriptures that spake of Christ and God, yet I knew Him not,
but by revelation, as He who hath the key, did open, and as
the Father of Life, drew me to His Son, lay His Spirit. . ..
And the Lord opened me, that I saw through all these
troubles and temptations. My living faith was raised, and I
said all was done by Christ the Life, and my belief was
in Him.” P.
[Swedenborg, T. L. Harris, A. J. Davis, George Fox, and other mediums,
at times experienced curious changes in their respiration when they passed
into ecstatic states. That they then, as Swedenborg and Fox thought,
came into direct communion with deiflc personages, can scarcely be
admitted; at all events, Swedenborg and his spirits bitterly slandered and
condemned the Quakers, so George Fox and Swedenborg could scarcely
have been inspired from the same source. We wish our correspondent
had minutely described the physiological symptoms of this “inner
breathing.”—Ed.]
THE KECEPTIOH OF NEW TENTHS.
Sie,—I think that many of your readers may desire further
information in regard to the stigmatic and other such-like
remarkable phenomena. A very full account of such matters
may be found in a work by the Rev. George Sandby, pub¬
lished by Longman in 1848, and called ittesmemm and its
Opponents, in which will be found a detailed account of a
remarkable case of ecstasy of my own. In conclusion, Mr.
Sandby said, “ In regard to the appearance of the stigmata
and the small wounds on the head of the Addolorata, Dr.
Elliotson and Mr. Atkinson both are of opinion that they
might be the effect of strong imagination and habitual con¬
templation upon a highly diseased frame.” Then follows a
full account of the lives of the ecstatics referred to, and the
occasion and order of the occurrence of the appearances
described, so that there can hardly rest a question as to the
cause, except with those who referred the whole matter to
imposture, or to a divine or supernatural source. Now, I fear
that Dr. Carpenter is learning very slowly indeed, or how can
he retain the hostile attitude he has shown towards the facts
daily and hourly occurring, however rightly or wrongly, under
the name of modern Spiritualism. I appeal to Professors
Huxley, Tyndall, and Carpenter to exert their unprejudiced
intelligence in respect to the whole rarige of psychological
and physiological facts now occurring and calling for atten¬
tion, as realities, or actualities, and in the name of science
and of truth, and 1 will add, as they value their names of
position in history,
If men would only reflect on history, and the history of
Feb. 6, 1874.
science and of thought, they would see how, at every
advance into fresh fields, truth and all novel revelations have
been scorned, denied, and trampled upon, not only by the
ignorant and the bigoted, but by the professors, because to the
new facts, seeming so unlike in kind, past experience does not
apparently apply ; anyhow, the old bottles will not hold the
new wine. It was not only the Pope who persecuted Galileo,
but the professors. Hear what Galileo wrote to a friend, “ 0 !
my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have one hearty
laugh together ! Here at Padua is the principal professor of
philosophy, whom I have repeatedly and urgently requested
to look at the moon and planets through my glass, which he
pertinaciously refuses to do. Why are you not here? What
shouts of laughter we should have at this glorious folly 1 And
to hear the professor of philosophy at Pisa labouring before
the Grand Duke, with logical arguments, as if, with magical
incantations, to charm the new planets out of the sky 1”
If this be too old a story, I may pass on to Newton, whose
great discovery was not acknowledged by the professors of
our universities until forty years after he was dead. After
Newton I may instance Harvey, and then Sir Charles Bell,
whose address to the students on his own experience of the
reception of new truths by the professors was most touching.
Whether Dr. Carpenter was one of those students, or not, I
cannot say. But it seems that he has taken five and twenty
years to appreciate the scientific interest in those marvellous
physiological phenomena of the stigmata and attendant re¬
lations. So I fear the phenomena of Spiritualism will hardly
be appreciated by him in his lifetime. How it may be with
him hereafter, if there be an hereafter, time will show. But
I fear that the untenable hypothesis of the table movements
by unconscious muscular action, accompanied by unconscious
cerebral action, will prevail with him to the last, though the
theory does not cover the very first fact, namely, the rappings.
It is never too late to mend, but Dr. Carpenter has too
seriously committed himself, and with too much arrogance
and presumption ; such a one must, as it were, be born again,
his prejudices disenabling him from applying his wise
analysis of doubts to his own advantage and conduct.
Of course I do not mean to affirm that Spiritualists are
wiser, or better, or less prejudiced than other men, but they
are masters of the position in respect to a class of important
facts, as Faraday was in regard to electricity, though very
unwise in reference to “ table moving,” and all of us have
our lines of action and prejudices; no doubt, men as a rule
are very much the same ; their opportunities and position,
and acquirements, chiefly causing the differences. There
are few men like Humboldt—of such enlarged mind and
wide interests, as to be able at once to recognise the value
and blessings of all new phenomena, come they from what
direction they may. But we must never forget that facts are
one thing and inferences another.
But the whole question of the action of mind on body ought
to be of the first and last importance to the scientific Spiri¬
tualist, since he has to account for or define the inter-relation
of body, spirit, and mind, since, according to Dr. Hitchman,
we have three bodies, and that both the spiritual body and the
mental body may be separated and both parted from the
physical body during life. Others even divide the mind into
an animal mindknd an intellectual mind; in fact, the theories
and fancies are without end, and it remains for the Spiritualist,
from his new facts and higher point of view to see what he can
demonstrate in respect to this deep question, on which both
physicists and meta-physicists are still all at sea. According
to my view, man, during life, is a unity and individuality,
and an organism having a function we call mind, being the
sensible interrelation of the physical man , with other persons,
creatures, and objects. That we have no sense, idea, or feel¬
ing, but relate to objects and the properties of objects, and in
which sense the body itself is objective to its own mental
states. The idea of the mental states influencing the body is
wholly fallacious, because mind, as the phenomena of con¬
sciousness, is not an entity or efficient power at all. The
entire action is physical in the interrelated cerebral relation
with the rest of the organism, and if the mind is the function
of a spirited body it would be the same. The whole efficient
power would be in the spirit, and in its conscious phenomena,
or under the term mind you must include the organic or spiri¬
tual action with its sense concomitant. In all cases, then,
the action is physical or spiritual in the interrelation of the
bodily or spiritual states, whether in muscular action, or in
the blush, or in tears, or in laughter, or in an abnormal fact, or
in stigmata, or in those cases where the shock of a child¬
bearing mother affects or marks the child. 1 could give many
Feb. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
remarkable and unpublished instances in relation to these deep
questions, but I fear that my letter would then assume the
appearance of a lecture—or not find admittance—the pages
of the Spiritualist being so much devoted to new instances
with the view to confirm the spirit hypothesis.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Kue-de-la-Douaine, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
THE OUTRAGE AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
Mr. Crookes has sent us the following letter;
Sir,—It has been my endeavour to keep as clear of contro¬
versy as possible in writing or speaking about so inflammatory
a topic as the phenomena called spiritual. Except in very few
cases, where the prominent position of my opponent would
have caused my silence to be ascribed to other than the real
motives, I have made no reply to the attacks and misrepre¬
sentations which my connection with this subject has entailed
upon me.
The case is otherwise, however, when a few lines from me
may, perhaps, assist in removing an unjust suspicion which is
cast upon another ; and when this other person is a woman,
young, sensitive, and innocent, it becomes especially a duty for
me to give the weight of my testimony in favour of her whom
I believe to be so unjustly accused.
Amongst all the arguments brought forward on either side
touching the phenomena of Miss Cook’s mediumship, I see
very few facts stated in such a way as to lead an unprejudiced
reader, provided he can trust the judgment and veracity of the
narrator, to say, “ Here, at last, is absolute proof.” I see
plenty of strong assertion, much unintentional exaggeration,
endless conjecture, and supposition, no little insinuation of
fraud, and some amount of vulgar buffoonery ; but no one has
come forward with a positive assertion, based upon the evi¬
dence of his own senses, to the effect that, when the form
which calls itself Katie is visible in the room, the body of Miss
Cook is either actually in the cabinet, or is not there.
It appears to me that the whole question narrows itself into
this small compass. Let either of the above alternatives be
proved to be a fact, and all the other collateral questions may
be dismissed. But the proof must be absolute, and not based
upon inferential reasoning, or assumed upon the supposed in¬
tegrity of seals, knots, and sewing, for I have reason to know
that the power at work in these phenomena, like love, “ laughs
at locksmiths.”
I was in hopes that some of those friends of Miss Cook, who
have attended her seances almost from the commencement,
and who appear to have been highly favoured in the tests they
have received, would, ere this, have borne testimony in her
favour. In default, however, of evidence from those who
have followed these phenomena from their beginning, nearly
three years ago, let me, who have only been admitted as it
were at the eleventh hour, state a circumstance which came
under my notice at a seance to which I was invited by the
favour of Miss Cook, a few days after the disgraceful occur¬
rence which has given rise to this controversy.
The seance was held at the house of Mr. Luxmoore, and the
“cabinet” was a back drawing-room, separated from the
front room in which the company sat, by a curtain.
The usual formality of searching the room and examining
the fastenings having been gone through, Miss Cook entered
the cabinet.
After a little time, the form of “ Katie ” appeared at the side
of the curtain, but soon retreated, saying her medium was
not well, and could not be put into a sufficiently deep sleep to
make it safe for her to be left.
I was sitting within a few feet of the curtain, close behind
which Miss Cook was sitting, and I could frequently hear her
moan and sob, as if in pain. This uneasiness continued at
intervals nearly the whole duration of the seance, and once,
when the form of11 Katie ” was standing before me in the room,
I distinctly heard a sobbing, moaning sound, identical with that
which Miss Cook had been making at intervals the whole time
of the seance, come from behind the curtain, where the young
lady was supposed to be sitting.
I admit that the figure was startingly life-like and real, and,
as far as I could see, in the somewhat dim light, the features
resembled those of Miss Cook; but still the positive evidence
of one of my own senses that the moan came from Miss Cook
in the cabinet, whilst the figure was outside, is too strong to
be upset by a mere inference to the contrary, however well
supported.
Your readers, sir, know me, and will, I hope, believe that I
will not come hastily to an opinion, or ask them to agree with
me on insufficient evidence. It is, perhaps, expecting too
much to think that the little incident I have mentioned will
have the same weight with them that it had with me. But
this I do beg of them, let those who are inclined to judge Miss
Cook harshly, suspend their judgment until I bring forward
positive evidence which I think will be sufficient to settle the
question.
Miss Cook is now devoting herself exclusively to a series of
private seances with me and one or two friends. The seances
will probably extend over some months, and I am promised
that every desirable test shall be given to me. The seances
have not been going on many weeks, but enough has taken
place to thoroughly convince me of the perfect truth and
honesty of Miss Cook, and to give me every reason to expect
that the promises so freely made to me by “ Katie” will be
kept.
All I now ask is that your readers will not hastily assume
that everything which is prima facie suspicious, necessarily
implies deception, and that they will suspend their judgment
until they hear from me again on this subject.
William Crookes.
20, Mornington-road, London, Feb. 3,1874.
Out of a great number of letters on the subject, the
following is the only one we have received somewhat in
favour of Mr. Yolckman, therefore we publish it:
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Supposing that you have received more letters than
enough about the outrage at Miss Cook’s seance, I shall
trouble you with a very short one. I could not help feeling
deeply grieved on reading Mr. Volckman’s letters in the
Medium, and considering the effect which they must have on
the Interests of Spiritualism, I do not think Mr. Yolckman to
blame for breaking a law that appeared to him purposely
made to protect imposition ; but Miss Cook could completely
neutralise the ill effect produced through his exposure, by
sending him an invitation to come and shake hands with her
in such a manner as would assure him of her ghostly state.
Hillesley, January 31st, 1874. F. E. P.
The opinion of the other sitters at the circle as to the
character of Mr. Yolckman’s act is such that probably
not one of them would meet Mm in future either at a
seance or anywhere else, and instead of desiring to con¬
vert him, would prefer that he should remain outside
the movement. When testimony is wanted, that of
old and tried leaders of the spiritual movement, is of
infinitely more value than Mr. Yolckman’s. Assuming
a medium to be powerful enough to got manifestations
in the face of the most unfavourable conditions, they
do well to withhold them from persons who make seances
scenes of violence and outrage. A person who had
much to do with the Davenports once told us how they
were anxious to convince a rough and noisy individual,
so gave him a private seance, at which he stood ready
to seize anything which might appear. Nothing took
place, and afterwards Katie was asked “ Why ?” The
reply was—“ We had plenty of power, but did you
think I would put out my arm for that fellow to lav
hold of?”
Those who think that some of the most earnest workers
in the Spiritual movement, who have made sacrifices
in every way for years to aid it, would frame conditions
to protect imposture, should have nothing to do with
such a movement, and clear out of it with all possible
despatch. The mud thrown by Mr. Yolckman at such
workers places the rest of his sayings quite out of
court with right-thinking people, and renders his ver¬
sion of the facts scarcely worth an answer. For
instance, he intimates that his deed was unpremedi¬
tated, and made after forty minutes observation. Be¬
fore the seance began Mr. Tapp asked him three times
to come to the other side of the room and examine the
operation of the tying of the medium, and sealing of the
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Fm 6, 1874.
knots with the seal brought by Lord Caithness, and
three times did Mr. Volckman flatly refuse, before the
whole company. He kept his seat, and would not go
across the room to observe what was taking place. In
the middle of the seance, long before the alleged forty
minutes had expired, he was told of his unusual manner,
and asked what was the matter with him; he inquired
in the course of the seance whether Katie would he
likely to come to his side of the room. Further, some
time before the day of the seance he sent the medium a
present of a brooch, or something of the sort, and on the
strength of this, afterwards he said “ that he had bought
his way into Mr. Cook’s house.” It is needless to say
that his present was sent back to him after the outrage,
though whether he has published this fact or suppressed
it, we do not know.
Miss Cook is a medium in private life, notwithstanding
which great facilities have been given in the most
kindly manner, for leading Spiritualists and others to
see the manifestations. But there is no reason why
anybody should submit to such annoyances as those
which have sprung up lately, and yesterday we received
a letter from Mr. Blackburn, asking us to publish that
he and Mr. Luxmoore have resolved to shut out the
public from the seances altogether, and to carry them on
in strict privacy for the benefit of a few scientific men.
Me. Geeaxd Massey, who spent last month in lecturing
in Boston and its neighbourhood, is now in the Western
States, and will give some lectures this month in Chicago.
Feiends who desire to contribute to the Spiritualist
subscription list now open, are requested to communicate with
the treasurer, Mr. T. W. Taunton, Hill House, Versailles-road,
Norwood.
Aetee a silence of some years, we began, a few months
ago, to place on record how trade interests have been creep¬
ing into Spiritualism, and how one publisher, by obtaining
large sums of money from Spiritualists, used the same to sell
goods under cost price, thereby inflicting great financial
injury upon other publishers. The whole matter being now
thoroughly exposed, we intend to try to keep silence on such
subjects in the future; the circumstances were made known
from a sense of public importance, and because it was neces¬
sary to place them on record as matters of history.
Phenomenal Spieititaxism in New Zealand.—Files
of the Otago, N. Z., Daily Times, of Sept. 23rd-26tb, have
just reached us, in which considerable space is devoted to ac¬
counts of seances for physical manifestations held at the house
of Thomas Allan, of Dunedin. The raps are represented as beat¬
ing time correctly to music ; tables are caused to rock to and
fro, and to ascend to the ceiling without contact with the per¬
sons present ; instruments are played ; flowers distributed;
spirits have been clairvoyantly seen and described by Mrs.
Allan and the company, and many of the oft-depicted cha¬
racteristics to be traced in such seances in America have been
exhibited, much interest in the cause being awakened thereby.
—Banner of Light.
Mes. Dickinson’s Meditjmship.—Mrs. Julia B. Dicken¬
son, a trance and healing medium, of 9, Somerset-street,
Portman-square, W., holds a public seance every Thursday
evening at eight o’clock. At one of these meetings, held
recently, the spirits controlling her said that one object of the
public seances was to give the spirit friends of the sitters
who attended an opportunity of attempting to prove their
personal identity; it was also the intention of the spirits to
give addresses upon social reforms through her trance
mediumship. Only such spirits as could get perfect control
of the medium by mesmerising her could prove their identity,
and many who were anxious to do so were not able. When
Mrs. Dickinson first passed into the trance state on this occa¬
sion, her hand became excessively cold ; the spirits said that
this was because they were working her brain so energeti¬
cally, that the vitality of the rest of her body was temporarily
lowered. One of the trance messages satisfied a lady present
that it came from a relative of hers, of whom the medium had
never heard.
We have received many books of late for review, and
shall publish notices shortly. Among these are some advanced
sheets of a remarkable psychological work about to be pub¬
lished by Professor Denton; he has been trying to find out
much about the planets by clairvoyance.
The chief results of the investigation of spiritual
phenomena, by the Committee of the Dialectical Society,
are stated upon the spiritual leaflets, of which about 50,000
have been circulated. They are the cheapest and most useful
printed matter, suitable for distribution at public meetings,
Which has yet been published by Mr. Allen.
London Antheopological Society.—Last Tuesday, at
the usual fortnightly meeting of the Anthropological Society,
at 37, Arundel-street, Strand, W.C., Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A.,
presided, and Mr. George Harris read a paper on a subject re¬
lating to spiritual phenomena. An animated debate about
Spiritualism was the result, and we shall publish a long report
Of the proceedings in the next number of the Spiritualist.
ANSWEES to coeeespondents.
W. H. Terry (Melbourne).—We regret to hear thatMr. Burns has
stopped your supply of Spiritualists in his parcels. Mr. Allen will
send them to you direct in future, as you desire. Please inform those
readers who are supplied through your agency, how their copies
have been stopped. He once quashed orders sent him by the Liver¬
pool Psychological Society, and the society is now obliged to get
them in separate parcels. It is a bad thing that the only pub¬
lisher in London who has a business wholly devoted to Spiritual¬
ism, imposes checks on the circulation of spiritual literature.
A neutral publisher, who will carry on business fairly in these
matters, is much wanted.
A Lover oe Truth.—We will inquire into the matter, and are
much obliged to you for the information, but never publish any¬
thing throwing a slur upon public or other individuals, without
first most carefully ascertaining whether the information re¬
ceived rests upon a firm foundation of fact.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and. America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “ City Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Oockburn-street, Edinburgh.
R. "W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Oomwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
R. JOHN' HUNTER and DR, MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
TTIOR SALE, PRICE £5, BREECHES’ BIBLE
jU {Geneva edition), 1610, black letter^ with copious annotations through¬
out. Il lustra ted with plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blytcn, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
® Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Price 2s. 6d.
/GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Feb. 6, 1874.
HUG-H McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which, departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Robert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND OLAIRVOVANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
S.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richaed Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
XX MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SO.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome, <&c.
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
‘We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“ The lecture is a full, careful, - and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, -Russell-steeet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
11 parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
JNSPIRATIONAL
LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
_ “ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modem Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The. medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will leam more in an hour’s conversai 'on
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is-called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4|4. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-Iane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the chukch).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper-
Re cently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
T YRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
I A a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’—Aowton Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Sd, 1868.
“Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the JEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
| SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 6, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all. the, civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Gt-.S., Gk Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Boume, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq,; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers,;Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
repprt, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable ■ temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but hot
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why: Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations,' but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and I talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and.ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order-to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
- circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
>RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
^ LIMITED.'
Capital—ONE MILLION STEELING. V
Head 0#c<?s.-BEO WN STEEET AND MAESDEN STREET, MANCHESTER.
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon eyery description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board haye approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence a
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNEBSOF HOUSE PEOPEBTY.
E, BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BBIXTON,
Tr> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JL&J House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting, of Houses of every descripiion.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Eeports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
. WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MES. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or'more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
/may be specified in fAe assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at;the Holborn Printing
Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andre w-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W“
Ablen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
