A RECORD OF THE PROQF{E££ OF THE (SCIENCE AND ETHIC3 OF gPIF^ITUAEI^M.
[REQISTEBED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 49.—(Vol. in.—No. 10.)
T rv'VTnri'W . A 'D'DTT I -iqhq Published on the 1st and 15th of every
LvJJNUUJN . A.riu.lj 1, 187o. Month; Price Fourpence.
intents!.
The Development of Mediumship ...      
The Psychological Committee   
Development of Clairvoyance among the Natives of Natal  
Som'e Experiences and Conclusions Regarding Spiritualism (No. IV.)
Spirit Forms ...    
Spiritualism in Dalston    
Spiritualism at the Crystal Palace   ...      
Spirit Faces   
The Duplication of the Human Form  
Review :—^Apparitions      
Spiritualism in Glagow:—Painting Mediumship  
The'SpirittyaKst      ... ...   
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Darlington  
The Anthropological Institute  ... ...
Mrs. Holmes’s Seances  
Answers to Correspondents   ..•. ...'  
146
146
146
149.
152
152
153
153
154
154
156
156
157
158
158
159
The Best hook for Enquirers—The latest phenomena!
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
An account of the astounding phenomena of Spiritualism affording positive
proof by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; that Spiritualism is sanctioned by Scripture
and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens of com¬
munications received ; extracts from its literature; advice to investigators;
addresses of mediums, and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; post free 38 stamps, or four copies for 10s. 6d. from Messrs.
Ireland & Co., publishers, Manchester, from whom one dozen copies of the
table of contents can also be had for distribution on forwarding two stamps.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
CCRYSTAL PALACE. MODERN SPIRITUALISM.—
J Mr. George Sexton, M.A.. LL.D., M.D., &c. will deliver Two Lectures
on Wednesday the 2d, and Friday the 4th of April, respectively, at four
o'clock, on “Spiritualism, its Phenomena], Philosophical, and Scientific
Aspects.’’ At the close of the lecture Dr. Sexton will hold himself ready to
answer questions.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated •pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
/lead Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford/lL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William GimberGoodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson. Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C..,.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
IN Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. 'Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
EB1RD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOT O Gr R A P H S.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
A Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills."
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & ‘Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINJS, a thin Evening Beverage,
TDRITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
X) LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.-'BRO'WH STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
• FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T, Witji an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.: E. W. Allep, 11, Aye-Maria lane, J?.0.
Also Pari I,, price 6d, Cloth, 94?
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 1, 1873.
C'lj* Sphitalrsf
CHARaE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and. sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty waaiis, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very .good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among throe whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Haria-lane, E.C.
Am/ delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Qur publisher, Mr. E. IF. Allen. 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C'., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 333. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.'
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifih-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
; Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paui’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers,, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d , which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MEDIUMSHIP.
The very serious question is sometimes asked by those
who have had little experience in Spiritualism, of
those who have had more, whether it would be
beneficial to a particular person in whom symptoms of
incipient mediumship have appeared, that he should sit
to fully develope the power? Probably nobody has yet
had sufficient experience in the new science of Spirit¬
ualism to be able to be a reliable guide in the matter.
The present result of such practical experience as we
have had is the following advice, to be acted upon with
caution :—If the person be of a sprightly, happy disposi¬
tion, with an intelligent well-balanced mind, medium-
ship will probably develope in her or him without danger
or difficulty. But when the person is odd and eccentric,
and has not naturally a well-balanced mind, medium-
ship often stimulates and increases the mental eccentrici¬
ties, so should not then be encouraged. Additional weight
placed upon a well constructed arch may increase its
stability, but additional weight upon an uneven badly
constructed arch, may increase its instability; in an
analogous manner does mediumship influence well
balanced minds, on the one hand, and eccentric minds
on the other, so far as we know at present.
The Psychological Committee.—Viscount Amberley,
Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr. George Harris, have been appointed
members of the Psychological Committee of the Anthro¬
pological Institute. A meeting of the Committee was held on
the 18th inst.; present, Mr. F. Galton, F.R.S., in the chair;
Col. Lane Fox, V.P.S.A.; Mr. George Harris, F.S.A. ; and
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., when a programme of subjects
of papers for discussion was agreed upon, Mr. Galton acts
as secretary pro tern.
DEVELOPMENT OF, CLAIRVOYANCE AMONG THE
NATIVES OF NATAL. *
TRANSLATED BY THE REV. CANON CALLOWAY, M.D.
The -condition of a man who is about to be an
inyangaf is this : at first he is apparently robust; but
in process of time he begins to be delicate, not having
any real disease, but being very delicate. He begins
to be particular about food, and abstains from some
kinds, and requests his friends not to give him that
food, because it makes him ill. He habitually avoids
certain kinds of food, choosing what he likes, and he
does not eat much of that; and he is continually complain¬
ing of pains in different parts of his body. And he tells
them thathehas dreamt that he was being carried away by
a river. He dreams of many things, and his body is
muddled and he becomes a house of dreams. J And he
dreams constantly of many things, and on awaking saj’s
to his friends, “ My body is muddled to-day; I dreamt
many men were killing me; I escaped I know not how.
And on waking, one part of my body felt different from
other parts; it was no longer alike all over.” At last
the man is very ill, and they go to the diviners to
enquire.
The diviners do not at once see that he is about to
have a soft head.§ It is difficult for them to see the
truth; they continually talk nonsense, and make false
statements, until all the man’s cattle are devoured at
their command, they saying that the spirit of his people
demands cattle, that it may eat food.
So the people readily assent to the diviners’ word,
thinking that they know. At length all the man’s
property is expended, he being still ill; and they no
longer know what to do, for he has.no more cattle, and
his friends help him in such things as he needs.
At length an inyanga comes and says that all the
others are wrong. He says, “ I know that you come
here to me because you have been unable to do any
thing for the man, and have no longer the heart to
believe that any inyanga can help you. But, my friends,
I see that my friends, the other izinyanga, have gone
astray. They have not eaten impepo.|| They were
not initiated in a proper way. Why have they been
mistaken when the disease is evident ? For my part,
I tell you the izinyanga have troubled you. The
disease does not require to be treated with blood.As
for the man, I see nothing else but that he is possessed
by the Itongo. There is nothing else. He is possessed
by an Itongo. Your people move in him. They are
divided into two parties ; some say, «No, we do not
wish that our child should be injured. We do not wish
it.’ It is for that reason and no other that he does not
get well. If you bar the way against the Itongo, you
will be killing him. For he will not be an inyanga ;
neither will he ever be a man again; he will be what
♦ This is quoted from a book just sent us from Natal by Canon Calloway,
entitled Izinyanga Zokubula, or Divination as Existing among the Amazulu;
Natal, John A. Blair, Springvale; London, Triibner and Co., 1870. Canon
Calloway took down the statements, and then translated them into English,
so that this account is exactly as it was given by one of the natives in whom
the translator had confidence.—Ed.
t Medium.
j A house of dreams, meaning that he dreams constantly; that dreams
take up their abode with him. Many dreams are supposed to be c^|sed or
sent by the Amatongo, but not all.
§ A soft head, that is, impressible. Diviners are said to have soft heads.
|| Impepo is of two kinds—white and black. The bmek is first used as an
emetic to remove all badness and causes of dimness from the system. The
white is burnt as incense when sacrificing to the Amatongo; izinyanga use
it as au emetic to prevent the return of dimness of the inner sight after the
use of the black impepo. They also eat it, and place it under their heads at
night, thkt they may have clear, truthful dreams. They believe that by the
use of this medicine they are enabled to divine with accuracy. Hence to
have “ eaten impepo ” means to be a trustworthy divinei;.
f That is, sacrifices.
April 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
he is now. If he is not ill, he will be delicate, and be¬
come a fool, and be unable tomndeAtand anything.
I tell you you will kill him by using medicines. Just
leave him alone, and look to the end to which the
disease points. Do you not see that on the day he has
not taken medicine, he just takes a mouthful of food?
Do not give him any more medicines. He will not die
of the sickness, for he will have what is good* given to
him.”
So the man may be ill two years without getting
better ; perhaps even longer than that. He may leave
the house for a few days, and the people begin to think
he will get well. But no, he is confined to the house
again. This continues until his hair falls off, and his
body is dry and scurfy ; and he does not like to anoint
himself. People wonder at the progress of the disease.
But his head begins to give signs of what is about to
happen. He shows that he is about to be a diviner by
yawning again and again, and by sneezing again and
again. And men say, “ No ! Truly it seems as though
this man was about to be possessed by a spirit.” This
is also apparent from his being very fond of snuff; not
allowing any long time to pass ■yvithout taking some.
And people begin to see that he has had what is good
given to him.
After that he is ill; he has slight convulsions, and
has water poured on him, and they cease for a time.
He habitually sheds tears, at first slight, and at last he
weeps aloud, and in the middle of the night, when the
people are asleep, he is heard making a noise, and wakes
the people by singing; he has composed a song, and
men and women awake and go to sing in concert with
him.
In this state of things they daily expect his death;
he is now but skin and bones, and they think that to¬
morrow’s sun will not leave him alive. The people
wonder when they hear him singing, and they strike
their hands in concert. They then begin to take
courage, saying, “ Yes; now we see that it is the
head.”
Therefore while he is undergoing this initiation the
people of the village are troubled by want of sleep ; for
a man who is beginning to be an inyanga causes great
trouble, for he does not sleep, but works constantly with
his brain ; his sleep is merely by snatches, and he wakes
up singing many songs; and people who are near, quit
their villages by night when they hear him singing aloud,
and go to sing in concert. Perhaps he sings till the
morning, no one having slept. The people of the village
smite their hands in concert till they are sore. And
then he leaps about the house like a frog; and the
house becomes too small for him, and he goes out, leap¬
ing and singing, and shaking like a reed in the water,'
and dripping with perspiration.
At that time many cattle are eaten. The people en¬
courage his becoming an inyanga ; they employ means
for making the Itongo white, that it may make his
divination very clear. At length another ancient in¬
yanga of celebrity is pointed out to him.f At night
whilst asleep he is commanded by the Itongo, who says
to him, “ Go to So-and-so ; go to him, and he will
churn for you emetic-ubulawo, that you may be an in¬
yanga altogether.” Then he is quiet for a few days,
having gone to the inyanga to have ubulawo churned
for him ; and he comes back quite another man, being
now cleansed and an inyanga indeed.
* The power to divine. f That is, by the Itongo in a dream.
And if he is to have familiar spirits, there is con¬
tinually a voice saying to him, “ You will not speak
with the people; they will be told by us every thing
they come to inquire about.” And he continually tells
the people his dreams, saying, “ There are people* who
tell me at night that they will speak for themselves to
those who come to enquire.” At last all this turns out
to be true; when he has begun to divine, at length his
power entirely Ceases, and he hears the spirits who
speak by whistlings! speaking to him, and he answers
them as he would answer a man ; and he causes them
to speak by asking them questions; and if he does not
understand what they say, they make him understand
every thing they see. The familiar spirits do not begin
by explaining omens which occur among the people;
they begin by speaking with him whose familiars they
are, and making him acquainted with what is about to
happen, and then he divines for the people.
This then is what I know of familiar spirits and
diviners.
If the relatives of the man who has been made ill
by the Itongo do not wish him to become a diviner, they
call a great doctor to treat him, to lay the spirit, that
he may not divine. But although the man no longer
divines, he is not well; he continues to be always out
of health. This is what I know. But although he
no longer divines, as regards wisdom he is like a diviner.
Dor instance, there was IJndayeni. His friends did not
wish him to become a diviner; they said, “ No; we do
wish so fine and powerful a man to become a mere
thing which stays at home, and does no work, but only
divines.” So they laid the spirit. But there still re¬
mained in him signs which caused the people to say,
“If that man had been a diviner, he would have been
a very great man, a first class diviner.”
As to the familiar spirits, it is not one only that
speaks ; they are very many; and their voices are not
alike; one has his voice, and another his; and the voice of
the maninto whom they euteris different from theirs. ITe
too enquires of them as other people do; and he too
seeks divination of them. If they do not speak, he
does not know what they will say; he cannot tell
those who come for divination what they will be told.
No. It is his place to take what those who come to
enquire bring, and nothing more. And the man and
the familiar spirits ask questions of each other and con¬
verse.
When those who come to seek divination salute him,
he replies, “ Oh, you have come when I am alone. The
spirits departed yesterday. I do not know where they
are gone.” So the people wait. When they come they
are heard saluting them, saying, “ Good day.” They
reply, “ Good day to you, masters.” And the man who
lives with them also asks them saying, “ Are you
coming ? ” They say, they are. It is therefore diffi¬
cult to understand that it is a deception, when we hear
many voices speaking with the man who has familiar
spirits, and him too speaking with them.
Uthlaboj; is known by causing a sensation of perfora¬
tion of the side; and the man says, “I have pain under
the armpit, beneath the shoulder-blade, in my side,
in the flesh. It causes the feeling as if there were a
hole there; the pain passes through my body to each
side.”
* People, viz., the dead, the Amatongo.
t The supposed voice of the familiar spirits is always in a shrill, whistling
tone; hence they are called imilozi.
t Ulhlabo, the name of a disease, from ukuHaba, to stab, because it is
attended with a stabbing pain or ititch in the side. It is applied either to
pleurodynia or pleurisy.
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 1, 1873.
The men ask, “What is this disease? for it resembles
nothing but uthlabo.”
He replies, “ Yes, yes; I too say it is uthlabo; it
is that which comes out from the side of my body
and will not let me breathe, neither will it let me lie
down.”
At length the doctor who knows the medicines for
uthliibo cures it. But black people call it also ukxulo,
and say it is caused by the Itongo. And when a man
is constantly affected by uthlabo, black men say the
Itongo is walking in him; Amatongo are walking in
his body. If the disease lasts a long time, they at
length go to enquire of diviners. Thej^ come and say, “Heis
affected by the Itongo. He is affected by his people
who are dead.* * * § There was one of them who was an
inyanga ; and this man has the Itongo in his body;
his people wish him to have a soft head,f and become
a diviner when he has been initiated.”
The diviners say, “ Do not give him any more medi¬
cines. Do you not see when you get uthlabo-medicines
for him the disease docs not cease ? When you give
him medicine, do you not thereby increase the disease ?
Leave him alone. His people are in him. They wish
him to dream.”
And if one of his people who is dead was an inyanga,
the diviners who come to divine call him by name, and
say, “ So-and-so is in him ; it is he who says he is to
be an inyanga. It is a great inyanga that possesses
him.” That is what the diviners say. They say, “ The
man who was an inyanga, who is walking in his body,
was also an inyanga who could dig up poisons. He
used to dig them up. And since he who used to dig
up the poison of the sorcerers by which they destroyed
others has taken possession of this man, he too, as soon
as he has been initiated, will have a white Itongo,J
and will dig up poisons, as So-and-So, one of his people,
used to do. Leave him alone as regards medicines.
Throw away medicines, and give him no more; you
will kill him if you do. You think they will cure him.
They will not cure him. He is purposely thus affected.
The Amatongo wish him to become a "white § inyanga.
Be quiet, and see if the Amatongo do not give him
commands at night in his sleep. You will see him
come home in the morning, not having seen him go out,
having had medicines revealed to him which he will go
to the mountains to dig up; you will see he has dug
up cleansing-ubulawo, and he will churn it and make
it froth and drink it, and cleanse himself by it, and so
begin to be an inyanga. And at other times he will
be commanded to fetch impepo, which he will go to the
marsh to pluck.”
The Amatongo tell him to kill cattle, for the dead are
very fond of demanding flesh of one whom they wish to
make an inyanga. He slaughters them for his people
who are dead. And others enter his kraal. He
slaughters constantly, and others again come in their
place, the cattle being derived from his treatment of
disease, and from divining and digging tip poisons. When
men are perishing, being destroyed by sorcerers, he goes
* That is, the Amatongo.
t To have a soft or impressible head, that is to be an inyanga.
t That is, an Itongo who shall influence for good, and enable him to see
clearly and help others. They also speak of an Itongo elimnyama, a dark
or hlack Itongo, that is, one that is jealous, and when he visits any one
cau es disease and suffering without giving any reason for his doing so.
It is taid, “ Li lice li tulile," that is, It fights in silence—contends with
people without teiiing t em what to do to pacify it. They suppose that
sorcerers are. aided by the Amatongo of their house to practise sorcery
with skill and effect; but such Amatongo are not said to be black or dark,
but white, because they reveal with clearness their will to their devotee.
§ As we speak of “white witches;” an inyanga wjjo sliaii pee clearly
And use bis power for good purposes,”
and digs up the poisons, and purifies those whom the
sorcerers are poisoning.
When the Amatongo make a man ill, he cries, “ Hai,
hai, hai.* They cause him to compose songs, and the
people of his home assemble and beat tune to the song
the Amatongo have caused him to compose—the song
of initiation—a song of professional skill.
Some dispute, and saj^, “ No. The fellow is merely
mad. There is no Itongo in him.” Others say, “ 0,
there is an Itongo in him; he is already an inyanga.”
The others say, “ No; he is mad. Have you ever
hidden things for him to discover by his inner sight,
since you say he is an inyanga?”
They say, “ No, we have not done that.”
They ask, “ How then, do you know he is an in¬
yanga ? ”
They say, “ We know it because he is told about
medicines, which he goes to dig up.”
They reply, “ 0 ! he is a mere madman. We might
allow that he is an inyanga if you had concealed things
for him to find, and he had discovered what you had
concealed. But you tell us what is of no import, as you
have not done this.”
As they are talking thus, and disputing about con¬
cealing things for him to find at night when he is
asleep, he dreams that the man of his people who
is dead, and who is causing him to begin to be an
inyanga, tells him saying, “ They were disputing with
each other, saying you are not an inyanga.”
He who is beginning to be an inyanga asks, <£ Why
do they say I am not an inyanga?”
He replies, “ They say you are not an inyanga, but a
mere madman ; and ask if they have hidden things
for you to discover, since the others say you are an
inyanga.”
He says, “ Tell me who they are who say so.”
He replies, “ So-and-so and So-and-so were dis¬
puting.”
The man asks, “ Do you say they lie when they say
so ?”
He replies, “ Be quiet. Because they say so, I say you
shall be a greater inyanga than all others, and all men
in the world shall be satisfied that you are a great in*
yanga, and they shall know you.”
The man who is beginning to be an inyanga says,
“ For my part I say they speak the truth when they
say I am mad. Truly they have never hidden anything
for me to find.”
Then the man who was an inyanga, he who is in¬
itiating him, says, “Just be quiet, I will take you to
them in the morning. And do you appear on a hill;
do not come upon them suddenly; but appear on a hill
which is concealed, and cry, ‘ Hai, hai, hai; ' cry thus
on the hill which is concealed, that they may hear.
When you cry, ‘Hai, hai, hai,’ if they do not hear, then
go on to the hill which is open; do not expose yourself
much ; as soon as you expose yourself, cry ‘ Hai, hai,
hai,’ so that they may just hear. When they hear that
it is you, go down again from the hill, and return to
the one which is concealed. So I say they will see and
understand that they have spoken of a man who is
beginning to be a doctor ; they shall know by that, that
when they said you were a madman and not an inyanga
they were mistaken.”
So he does so. He cries, “ Hai, hai, hai,” on a hill
which is hidden ; they do not hear him distinctly, they
hear only a continual sound of Nkene, nkene, nkene,
* ffaiya, To cry as tbe diviner; a continual repetition of Hai, bai, hai. ■
April ij 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
nkene. One of them says, “ It sounds as though there
was some one singing.” Others say “ We do not hear.
We hear only an echo.”
The Itongo comes to him and tells him that they
cannot hear, and bids him go out a little on the open
hill, and then return again to the hill which is hidden.
So he departs at the word of the Itongo, and goes out
to the open hill, and cries, “ Hai, hai, haiand they
all hear that it is he. They are again disputing about
him, and as soon as they hear that it is he, they say,
“ Can it be, sirs, that he comes about the matter we
were disputing about, saying, he is mad?”
Others say, “ 0, why do you ask ? He comes on
that account, if indeed you said he was not an inyanga,
but a madman.”
The great man of the village to which the inyanga
is approaching says, “ I too say he is mad. Just take
things and go and hide them, that we may see if he can
find them.”
They take things; one takes heads and goes and
hides them; others take picks and go and hide them;
others hide assagais ; others bracelets ; others hide their
sticks, others their kilts, Others their ornaments; others
their pots; others hide baskets, and say, “ Just let us
see if he will find all these things or not.” Others hide
cobs of maize; others the ears of araabele, or sweet cane,
or of ujiba, or the heads of upoko.
Some say, “ 0, if he find all these things, will he not
be tired ? Why have you hidden so many ?”
They say, “ We hide so many that we may see that
he is really an inyanga.”
They reply, “ Stop now, you have hidden very many
things.”
They return home, and wait. Then theltongo tells him
on the concealed hill; for it had already said to him,
“ Keep quiet; they are now hiding things; do -not
begiuto appear.' They wish to say when you find the
things that you saw when they hid them. Be quiet,
that they may hide all the things ; then they will be
satisfied that you are an inyanga.” Now the Itongo tells
him,/‘They have now hidden the things and gone home.
It is proper for you now to go to the home of the people
■who say that you are mad, and not an inyanga.”
So he comes out on the open mountain, and runs
towards their home, being pursued by his own people
who are seeking him, for he went out during the night,
and they did not hear when he went out very early in
the morning, when it was still dark, when the horns of
the cattle were beginning to be just visible, He reaches
their home, and his own people who were looking for
him, and have now found him, come with him. On his
arrival he dances, and as he dances they strike hands
in unison ; and the people of the place who have hidden
things for him to find, also start up and strike hands ;
he dances, and they smite their hands earnestly.
He says to them, “ Have you then hid things for me
to find ? ”
They deny, saying, “ No; we have not hidden things
for you to find.”
He says, “ You have.”
They deny, saying, It is not true; we have not.”
He says, “ Am I not able to find them ?”
They say, “ No ; you cannot. Have we hidden then
things for you to find ?”
He says, “ You have.”
They deny, declaring that they have not done so. But
he asserts that they have.
When they persist in their denial, he starts up,
shaking his head. He goes and finds the beads ; ho
finds the picks, and the kilts, and the bracelets ; he
finds the cobs of maize, and the ears of the amabele,
and ujiba, and of upoko ; he finds all the things they
have hidden. They see he is a great inyanga when he
has found all the things they have concealed.
He goes home again as soon as he has found all the
things, and not one thing remains outside where they
had hidden it. On his return to their home from the
river, whither he had gone to find what was hidden, ho
is tired, and the Amatongo say to him, “ Although
you are tired, you will not sleep here ; we will go home
with you.” This is what the Amatongo say to the
inyanga when he is tired with finding the things.
The inyanga’s people who accompany him say, “Just
tell us if he is not an inyanga?”
And he says, “ I have found all the things which you
hid ; there is nothing left outside ; all things are here
in the house. I was commanded to come to you, for
you said I was not an inyanga, but a madman, and
asked if my people had hidden things for me to find.
Just say who told me the things about which you
were speaking. You said I was mad. You thought
you were just speaking. Do you think the Amatongo do
not hear? As you were speaking, they were listening.
And when I was asleep they told me that I was a
worthless inyanga, a mere thing.”
Then the people make him presents. One comes
with beads and gives him; another brings a goat;
another an assagai; another a bracelet; another brings
an ornament made of beads and gives him. The chief
of the village gives him a bullock; and all the chief
men give him goats, because he had come to their vil¬
lage at the bidding of the Amatongo.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING! SPIRITUALISM.
No. IY.
BY J. 51. GULLY, M.D.
It may well be supposed that the sixteen years dur¬
ing which the subject of Spiritualism has been before
me, have given me opportunities to report many more
experiences than those which I have already detailed.
But of these latter alone has any written record been
made at the time of their occurrence; and I am un¬
willing to publish what may be faulty by reason of
defect or inaccuracy of memory. Still, there are two
or three curious test manifestations of which I have a
vivid recollection, and which may be briefly alluded to.
I have already publicly stated that I beheld Home raised
into the air, and saw him touch the ceiling of a room
dt least fifteen feet high ; this happened twice in one
evening. About two years ago, I published in the
Spiritual Magazine the account of manifestations in my
own bedroom (Home being asleep in the adjoining
room), such as I venture to assert the whole records of
Spiritualism do not exceed in their verification of the
action, both reasoning and physically powerful, of
agents entirely external to Home’s body or mine, to
his thought or mine, to his will or mine. In fact, they
commenced when he was absent and fast asleep, and
not until they were all finished had we the smallest
idea what their deep and beneficent meaning was, I
need not burthen your columns with the repetition of
details which may be found in the Magazine. Fre¬
quently at our evening meal I would arrive late, to find
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 1, 1873.
my sisters and Home at table: but tbe moment I
entered the room, my usual arm-chair was rapidly
drawn, almost whirled, from out a deep bay window to
my place at the head of the table. Once my spirit
child told us—1'| That is papa’s chair, the dearest chair
in the world.” Yery. often the spirit presence was tes¬
tified by affirmative or negative raps to statements and
opinions given in the course of our conversation whilst
at meals. During these I have known a large cushion
drawn along the floor and pushed under my sister’s
feet, with the remark that “ They did it to bring com¬
fort to her feet.” On all these occasions we were
never in seance, and were speaking of things altogether
apart from Spiritualism; so constant and so kindly
was their unseen, though palpable presence. Much has
been said of and against dark seances; but, whilst on
this subject of spiritual presence when not in the
circle, I must mention here that one bright and hot
Sunday morning, when the people were all in the
Priory-Church close by, in Malvern, and Home, Mr. E.
Sterling, and I, were sitting on the lawn shaded with
an umbrella, we spoke of the glorious day, and how one
might be just as thankful to God for His sunshine and
beneficence there as in the neighbouring church, there
came raps on the stem of the umbrella, and we were
told—“ There is but one Church, the Church of God,
everywhere this, spite of hot, shining sun, and no
thought of manifestations. Much also has been said of
the tissues which constitute the garments of manifested
spirits. Once at Home’s lodgings in London his wife’s
spirit came with rustling sound like that of a silk dress,
and Home, who saw her, said it was silk; I still ven¬
tured to doubt, and observed that the spirit probably
was able to make a sound in the air resembling silk
tissue, whereupon the rustling sound travelled from thci
other side of Home to my side, and the dress was
rubbed against my cheek, leaving no doubt in my mind
that, however made, something which felt like silken
tissue was there. Subsequently, at that same seance,
Home was impelled to stand in the light of tbe window
which came from the outside lamps, his left arm
stretched out; within the space between the hand of
that arm and his trunk a whitish cloud formed, which
gradually darkened until we all (there were five gen¬
tlemen in the room) distinguished a female form, which
extended its head towards Home’s face, and kissed it,
with sound, repeatedly. I recall, too, that evening,
that the pendule on the chimneypiece had stopped, and,
at Home’s request, it ticked and struck the hour he
demanded, stopped, and again struck any hour he
named, again and again.
Finally, I have heard trance mediums and read their
sayings; and I have thrice been present at the won¬
drous visible, audible, and tangible presence of spirits
with the mediutnship of Miss Florence Cook, when the
face, speech, and manifestations, extending to writing,
were as real to every external and internal sense as the
actions of any one in the flesh are real to any other one
n the flesh.
I have narrated the preceding experiences for those
who, after examination, have come to the same calm
and firmly held conviction that I myself entertain re¬
garding the agency of spiritual disembodied beings, who
once inhabited bodies of flesh, in the production of the
phenomena in question. To those who have not, and
will not, examine the subject, all that I have related
will appear wild words, no doubt; meantime, their
opinion is worth about the same that mine is con¬
cerning Sanskrit, of which I never made the smallest
study.
Still, to this generation of materialistic thinkers and
seekers there occurs, instead of examination, the ques¬
tion, what is. the use of Spiritualism, supposing its
alleged facts to be true? They desire to know Avhat
new thing it can tell us, what profitable' thing do for
us. They ask for evidence that it can be conducive to
worldly interests, sometimes of the most sordid kind, and
demand that it should enlighten us concerning the
future of this solid earth as well as the coming life
beyond its surface. He who has examined the subject,
and has been convinced of the reality of its results,
naturally turns with disgust from questions so opposed
to the genius of the inquiry, from aims so coarse and
unworthy. Not the least curious point of the matter
is, that the greatest part of the querists after this fashion
will be found to be professors of a belief in a future life,
and yet, when 11 a small corner of the veil of the life
mystery” is lifted up to them, and a definite idea
offered them of that state in which they profess to be¬
lieve, instead of the confused and utterly unsatisfactory
mist which they hold as belief, they sneer, refuse to
inquire, and ask, “ Can it tell us what will be the price
of Consols next settling day?” The strange jumble in
the minds of people of this kind—strict church-goers
and Sunday Christians most of them—is one of the
marvels of mentality which can only be solved by the
theory that they only gibber a profession once a week,
and give not a thought to it once in a lifetime. A short
time ago I was set upon by a large dinner company
of well-dressed, well-to-do Sunday Christians of the
above stamp, because I was a Spiritualist, and the stale
objection regarding what spirits would or would not do,
and the coarse queries of how they could fill their
pockets, were addressed to me. My reply was, “ You
seem to know so much about the offices and duties of
spirits, will any of you give me a definition of a spirit—
what is it?” The question was a poser; not one at
that table had given the tithe o£ a thought to it—they
one and all acknowledged as much—and yet one and
all were scandalised when I told them they might as
well not profess belief in spiritual existence at all as
never to make mental inquiry concerning it. I recom¬
mend my question to all who are teazed and shocked
by such wind-bag objectors.
But although the question regarding the uses of
Spiritualism may appear in the above-named form base
and silly, I hold that it is one which every Spiritualist
should be constantly putting to himself and striving to
answer by the light of the phenomena already developed,
and, still more, by the light which each one may obtain
from the spirit-world by placing himself—that is, his
spirit—in constant communion with those who have
passed out of their bodies, and, above all, with the
Divine Source of all spirit-existence. Sir Isaac New¬
ton, when asked how he came to discover so many
abstruse laws of nature, answered, “ By always think¬
ing about it.” And so I hold that we Spiritualists
should always be thinking about it—about the power,
intelligence, brightness, holiness, loveliness of Spiritual
life commenced in the midst of antagonistic flesh, and
to be perfected when that obstacle no longer is present
to prevent the spirit’s progress towards the fulness of
those attributes. And the disembodied spirits give us
abundant evidence of their proximity to aid us in our
moral struggles, in our vale of sorrows, even in our
physical sufferings. Spirit, although it dominates
April 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
chemical matter, can only sympathise with, and be in¬
fluenced by,its own similar substance and action. When
we say that the state of the body affects the mind, it is
only an inverse mode of saying that the spirit, having
disordered matter to act through, does so imperfectly,
irregularly, irrationally, teaching us, as one of its uses,
the duty of so keeping our bodies that the spirit may
act harmoniously through it, and thus produce happi¬
ness of sensation and energy of action. Spirit itself is
holy and powerful, for it is a portion of the Holiest and
the Omnipotent, and, armed with it, we should control
our bodies and render them temperate in every one of
their functions : which doing, the spirit is preparing for
the highest progress in the state when its powers need not
be expended in combating with and controlling the body,'
but when these can be entirely occupied in acquirement
of the knowledge of God’s life and laws amid surround¬
ings that favour such acquisition and offer no obstacle to
the progressive increase of it through, it may be, several
existences hereafter.
In former numbers of the Spiritualist appeared a
series of papers by Canon Calloway, in which he endea¬
vours to show that all kinds ef anomalous conditions of
mind and visions are due to toxic and intoxicating agents
in the frame, to habits of body, &c., in this way re¬
ducing what he would call the purely spiritual results
to a minimum. How, this is the veriest materialism,
since it makes the chemical, transitory body, the master
of the eternal, unchanging spirit; whereas the cases
which he cites are all explicable on the belief that the
body had been made unfit for the healthy control of
spirit in consequence of the spirit itself having failed in
its duty to regulate that body in the first instance. It
is only on this theory that man can be held responsible
for his deeds. Cultivation of the spiritual is the culti¬
vation of Godlike power : it sways the spirits of others
for good, and it draws more and more power from, by con¬
stant approximation with, the Great Central Spirit, the
God we yearn to know and to whom we pray for light.
If a spirit, careless of its high destiny, resists not the
temptation of some other spirit, in or out of the body, to
deliver its fleshly covering up to’sensual excesses, and, as a
consequence, exhibits the fantastic results of opium-smok¬
ing, of bhang, or belladonna, or the furious results of
alcohol, or the drivelling debasement resulting from sexual
viciousness, shall we attribute these dismal exhibitions
to the body’s sway of the spirit? Should we not go
further, and see in them the results of the failure of the
spirit to recognise its lofty mission of preparing itself,
by the very trials, temptations' and sufferings of the
earthly life, for the power, the knowledge, the light
which await it in that other life when its subtle nature
can pierce the causes of things which are now all dark¬
ness to it ? To me it seems impossible that any hearty
Spiritualist can throw upon his chemical body the faults
of his own feeble spirit, and fall into the dotage of
belief that when he has permitted that body to be in¬
jured by vicious ways his spirit is not responsible for it!
A mighty host of pure, truthful, and intelligent spirits
are ready to rush into each embodied spirit who may
yearn for them, and aid it in its blessed resolve to use
its marvellous bodily mechanism reverently and mode¬
rately, and thereby to fortify, purify, and polish the
still more marvellous spirit which is its engenderer,
and should be its master. He cannot reasonably fly to
atonements exacted by a Deity who will accept nothing
less than blood as a ransom : he Jcnows that his real
existence, his spiritual life, begins Ziere, to be con¬
tinued in like manner when he has quitted his body-
dark, if it has cultivated darkness; bright, if he h is
been always seeking light: the spirits of the departed
hence have told him so over and over again.
A recent instance of evasion of this knowledge has
been exhibited in the late Lord Lytton. In the sermon
on his death, preached by Dr. Jowett, in Westminster
Abbey, the preacher mentioned that only three weeks
before, in conversation with Lord Lytton on Spiritualism,
Lord Lytton stated that he thought “ there was so.ne
truth in it, but it was unprofiable, and explicable by
natural causes.” At the same interview, his Lordship
alluded to the difficulty of divesting one’s-self of the
love of approbation, even at his age, 67. This last
remark explains the first one : the opinion of the world
was the breath of his nostrils ; abuse and derision were
his dread. Ho man had had more convincing proof of
extraneous agency under the mediumship of Home, and
to Home he expressed his full belief in it—but the
world must not laugh at him ! Ho wonder he pro¬
nounced the subject “ unprofitable.” I had some per¬
sonal knowledge of him, and venture to say that, though
great intellectually whilst on earth, his higher spiritual
education never began here.
Such are some of the uses of Spiritualism which may
be found oven at this stage of its history : and I have a
strong belief that, if such uses are kept steadily in view,
pondered upon, and prayed about, the veil will be lifted
for us more and more, in accordance with our power to
bear or understand the scene behind it. Par be it from
me to animadvert upon the number and character of
the purely physical phenomena which are now-a-days
produced through mediums and circles ; such phe¬
nomena are absolutely necessary for the purpose of
bringing material proofs to materialist thinkers (or no¬
thinkers) of the life, and the near neighbourhood of the
life, for which we contend ; and they must go on until,'
far and wide, upon a broad basis of facts, the belief is
strong enough never more to be passed over as a mere
profession, but be made to saturate man’s earthly life,
and so to bring that life under a more real, a loftier,
and a holier influence. But if at such circles there be
those whose convictions of the communion with the
departed are strong and deep-seated, to them, at least,
the phenomena can avail little unless they use them to
throw more and more light on the upward vista which,
commencing in this body and on this earth, opens to the
spirit the magnificent scene of eternal goodness, of su¬
pernal knowledge, of everlasting delight, attainable by
the never-ceasing progress of the same spirit which now
possesses the body.
I hold not the gloomy views of the hour of death
induced by the teachings of churches: I believe in no
God save a God of love : I believe that God punishes
no one, here or hereafter, and at no time demanded a
bloody atonement for* the whole race of man : I believe
that we punish ourselves by reason of the infraction of
laws of which our own spirit is perfectly cognisant, and
such spirit is the man, the man acting under responsi¬
bility to those laws. How, if to that spirit is accorded
the strongest proof that it is to live beyond the period
of its tenancy of the body, and to progress, rapidly or
otherwise, into light, in proportion as it has striven to
progress in this its incubating state, it must occur to
any thinker that the investigation of these proofs should
be a calm, solemn, serious one, worthy of the awful
interests which are inextricably involved in it. Every
kindly, affectionate, aspiring feeling of our being should
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 1, 1873.
be enlisted, nay, should be predominant, whilst the
spirit is seeking in this way some knowledge of the life
which is eternal. No fact of Spiritualism is better
ascertained than that of the influence of the embodied
spirits upon the character of the disembodied, who come
to bring proofs of their existence to us; but we who
are already convinced of this should, I think, be seeking
teaching, as well as proofs, and teaching of the highest
kind too. Purely physical phenomena prove the vastly
greater physical and mechanical powers of freed spirits
than ours; but I should from that very fact surmise
that spirits so endowed are capable of nothing more ;
that they are the “ working classes” of the spiritual
life, and can tell us nothing of the marvels of nature,
of feeling and intellect, which higher spirits, when
attracted towards us, could reveal. Vulgar curiosity is
a low motive for entering upon the inquiry, and so it
comes to pass that spirits of a vulgar order prove their
separate existence by manifestations more curious than
instructive, more amusing than elevating. As these
proceed, it becomes plain that such spirits can be ren¬
dered more and more palpable by constant formation of
circles; that they can exhibit more and more openly
the additional power which, as spirits, they have acquired
over the particles of the earth’s matter, forming, disin¬
tegrating, and re-forming them with a rapidity and
facility which must be the despair of all the Liebigs
and Crookes’ in Europe and America. In this way it
might be that some of the wonders of chemistry would
be revealed to us. But what do these very spirits tell
us ? That what they arc able to do is by processes the
rationale of which is known only to spirits of a much
higher order. On one occasion I asked that good-
natured little soul Katie, who attends on Miss Cook,
whether she did all by her own power? and she
answered—“ No ; much higher spirits tell me how to
do it. I am only a worker.” And thus it is, that
whether we Spiritualists would learn the reasons of
physical nature, or the depths of moral existence, we
must have recourse to the higher order of spiritual
beings for teaching ; we must form our circles in such
manner as to place them in attractive harmony with
the most advanced of the disembodied beings : in short,
in this consists the true “ scientific ” (as the favourite
epithet is) handling of the subject, and in this way
only may we hope to utilize in the highest degree the
facts which the physical manifestations at present only
offer as curiosities. I feel certain that the future use¬
ful study of the whole subject must be in the direction
of the formation of circles harmoniously accorded in
sentiment, and mentally conjoined to seek the very
loftiest teaching from the highest sources.
M. Alexandre Aksakov, of St. Petersburgh, will visit
London in a week or two, to observe spiritual phenomena.
Spirit Forms —Last Sunday week, at a seance at Mr.
Henry Cook's, at Hackney, Mrs. Bassett and Miss Cook were
the mediums, and they sat in the cabinet for spirit forms.
The observers present were Dr. J. E. Purdon, Sandown, Isle of
Wight; Mr. Bassett, Thornham-Grove, Stratford; Mr. G. R.
Tapp, Queen Margaret’s-grpve, Mildmay-Park ; and Mr. and
Mrs. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston. Miss Cook’s spirit-
guide “Katie,” came out of the cabinet at full length, robed in
white, in a good light. On giving her subdued light she was
able to walk round the room, and to touch each sitter in turn.
Mrs. Bassett told the company that Miss Cook had been en¬
tranced all the time, with her head lying on her (Mrs. Bas¬
sett’s) lap; that Katie appeared suddenly, and frequently,
entered and left the cabinet; finally, she came in again, stood
by Miss Cook, and slowly faded away.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
Last Thursday night, Mr. George Sexton, M.A., M.D.,
LL.D., delivered a lecture on Spiritualism at the Luxembourg
Hall, Dalston, under the auspices of the Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism. Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.,barris¬
ter-at-law, presided. There was a large and influential body of
listeners, consisting chiefly of local Spiritualists and non-
Spiritualists, the numbers on both sides being very (equally
divided, sd far as could be gathered from the animated sounds
of approval given to statements made both for and against
Spiritualism.
The Chairman exhibited a large bundle of letters from gen¬
tlemen who were unable, to attend, but who expressed sym¬
pathy with the object of the meeting; he remarked that it
would occupy too much time to read them all. He then intro¬
duced the lecturer.
Dr. Sexton said that there were but three states of mind in
relation to-any facts, possible to any rational being, namely,
denial, conviction, or suspension of judgment. Spiritualists
were not in a state of belief as regarded Spiritualism, but in
a state of absolute knowledge ; those, on the other hand, who
were not intimately acquainted with the phenomena, took an
altogether different view of the matter. Many theories had
been advanced to explain the phenomena, the most crude and
superficial being that of imposture. It was hard to suppose
that millions of men, including some of the chief literary and
scientific minds of the age, could have Been imposed upon for
a lengthened period, and if such were the case, in Spiritualism
all the ordinary conditions of imposture were reversed.
Usually, clever people are the humbugs, and foolish people
those imposed upon ; but in Spiritualism, the more intelligent
must be the deceived, and the less intelligent the deceivers,
for many of the mediums were mere children, and a large
proportion of the others had had little or no education.
Besides, when a man obtains the phenomena in his own house,
among members of his own family, with no strangers present,
who are the deceived and who are the deceivers ? Do mem¬
bers of families sit down to cheat each other ? Spiritual phe¬
nomena might roughly be divided into five classes :—Firstly,
into physical effects such as raps and movements of solid ob¬
jects ; secondly, intelligent responses to questions; thirdly,
trance messages, and messages given directly through the
organism of the medium ; fourthly, direct action of spirits,
as in the direct voice, and direct spirit writing ; fifthly, the
visible appearance of spirits to many persons at the same time.
Those who wished to see these things, should give time and
work to the subject, just the same as they would to any other,
and above all, they should investigate in their own homes.
He was not aware of a single instance of any man of note
having carefully investigated the phenomena, without being
convinced of their reality. As to the imposture theory, how
was it that intelligent observers so seldom saw a conjuring
trick which they could not explain ? Professor Anderson was
one of the clumsiest conjurers he had ever seen, and Professor
Anderson recently told him that he had shut up Spiritualism
in America, and should do the same in England before long ;
it was all done with wires, batteries, and electro-magnets.
He (Dr. Sexton) replied, “ How then do I get the phenomena
at home, where there are no such appliances ? ” Professor
Anderson retorted, “Ah, you are as big a fool as the rest ! ”
(Laughter.) Uninformed people stated vaguely that the
floating of tables was all due to magnetism and electricity.
If such were the case, the table must have an iron top, as a
magnet would not attract wood; and did they know how
large a magnet must be to move Dr. Edmunds’ table in the
'way it moved, supposing the magnet were concealed above the
ceiling of the room ? The magnet would have to be about
three times the size of Dalston. (Applause.) Then, as to elec¬
tricity, an enormously powerful battery, such as a Groves’
battery of 200 cells, if connected with a table by wires, would
not move it at all, and the current would not pass through
the non-conducting wood. If the legs were insulated, not a
single spark could be drawn from the wood, though under
such conditions they might get sparks, if they used frictional
electricity of high tension. The magnetism and electricity
theory only displayed the dense scientific ignorance of those
by whom it was advanced. Others said it was psychic force.
Well, he had no objection to that, for “psychic” meant
“spirit,” and, no doubt, solid objects were moved by spirits.
Neither table motions nor raps proved Spiritualism, but the
intelligence connected with them did do so ; and when, as at
his house, a person, at a distance from the table, passed a
pencil over a printed alphabet out of the sight of the sitters
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
April 1, 1873.
at the table, and the table signalled when the right letter was
reached, and spelt out an intelligible message, it was clear
that the intelligence moving the table was not that of any of
the persons sitting at it. The lecturer then told how Lord
Brougham, who was neither untruthful nor superstitious,
testified that he saw the spirit of a schoolfellow of his, at the
same time, as was afterwards ascertained, that that friend
died in India. He (Dr. Sexton) had recently seen Mr.
Duguid painting a picture in the trance at Glasgow. It was
done in pitchy darkness, but every now and then he (the
lecturer) turned up the light at unexpected times to see the
progress of the work. The same evening the spirits painted
a picture with their own hands, direct, under test conditions.
Dr. Carpenter had brought in an “unconscious cerebration”
theory to explain Spiritualism, and had told how a friend of
his had had a spirit message from Dr. Young. The gentleman
asked the spirit, if he were Dr. Young, to repeat one line
from his poems. A line was given, which the enquirer did not
remember that Dr. Young had ever written, so he asked in
what poem it was? The reply was “Job,” which perplexed
the questioner still more. However, on his return home, he
found the line, and that the message was all true. Dr.
Carpenter’s explanation was that the gentleman had read the
poem in his infancy and then forgotten it ; but at the seance
the forgotten thought came out by a process of unconscious
cerebration. Could anything be more ridiculous ? A thought
the questioner knows nothing about passes out of his brain
into the brain of another man ; this other man knows nothing
of the thought, but it passes through him to the-table ; the
table knew nothing about it—at least, he supposed so
(laughter), but gave it to the original owner, who did not
know his own property when he received it (applause). There
was no credulity so great as the credulity of incredulity, and
Dr. Carpenter’s reasoning was utterly unscientific and utter
nonsense. All this unconscious work was^supposed to be done
by the ganglionic system, which was not the highest portion
of the human body. How was it that the ganglionic systems
of Mr. T. L. Harris and Miss Lizzie Doten had produced
poems which were worthy of Shakespeare or Milton ? The
ganglionic system was most fully developed in insects, so why
did not fleas write poems, and blackbeetles solve mathematical
problems ? Atheists had long been demanding the evidence
of the senses in proof of an after life ; the supply met the
demand just when it was most needed, and Spiritualism was
actually fighting Atheism with its own weapons. He had
been connected with the freethought movement for twenty
years, and could testify that if Atheism were true, it would be
a dark and terrible truth—a thing without hope, a thing
which should make men shudder. When a father loses his
child, and his heart-strings are torn with anguish, what con¬
solation is it to be told that that child will once more rise
from the ground by chemical processes, in the shape of butter¬
cups and daisies 1 If such be the result of death, of what use
would be the trials, the education, and the experience of a life
on earth ? Such teaching is a mockery, and men should
shrink from it with horror. Spiritualism teaches that Atheism
is not true, and that the fire and brimstone eternal hell of the
theologians is equally false. His knowledge of Spiritualism
stood upon the same solid scientific foundation as his know¬
ledge of Newton’s law of gravitation, and any scientific prin¬
ciples which would upset the one would upset the other
(applause).
Mr. Reynolds—Did Lord Brougham become a Spiritualist
after seeing the spirit of his schoolfellow ?
Dr. Sexton—No.
Mr. Hutchinson asked whether it were not undignified on
the part of spirits to use tables ?
Dr. Sexton replied that spirits did not always use tables ;
they often moved other solid objects, and could communicate
without -using articles of furniture at all. If the communica¬
tion were important, it mattered little whether they signalled
it with a table or a telegraph needle.
Mr. Hutchinson remarked that the raps had told him of
uncles and cousins he never had. (Laughter.)
Dr. Sexton replied that a man might have relations of whom
he had never heard. Moreover, spirits did not always tell the
truth. Men were not made saints by the natural process of
being freed from the body at death ; and a man who was a
liar could not be expected to break off the habit suddenly.
Mr. Adams wanted to know how it was, if there were so
many spirits about, he had never met with one ? Why did
not the spirits come to him, and do so and so 1
Dr. Sexton replied that perhaps the spirits did not care
about undertaking much hard work to make themselves sen¬
sible to him. Why should they? They were not his ser¬
vants. (Applause.) Perhaps no spirits had any desire to
convert him. If he wanted demonstration upon any other
subject, he would have to work, or to do something to get it;
and it was just the same with Spiritualism. Every man’s
amount of knowledge of Spiritualism was of more importance
to himself than to anybody else.
Mr. Endor wanted to know whether raps were caused by
substance rapping against substance ?
Dr. Sexton—Yes.
Mr. Brookes asked where the spirits got the paints from, to
paint through Mr. Duguid’s mediumship ?
Dr. Sexton—They were placed on the table for them.
A Voice—Were the lights up ?
Dr. Sexton—No. (Oh! oh!) But the circumstance of an
elaborate, painting being executed in the dark made the evi¬
dence more complete. A corner had previously been torn off the
blank card and given to me, and when the painting was finished
and all wet, the piece torn off fitted in its place upon the card
upon which the painting had been executed.
An Enquirer—Have spirits ever revealed anything useful,
such as thie names of great murderers or forgers ?
Dr. Sexton—They have revealed much that is useful, but I
should be sorry to see them returning to earth to do police
business.
Mr. Brown—How are we to prove Spiritualism?
Dr. Sexton—By experiments at home. I have to lecture at
the Crystal Palace on the 2nd and 4th of April, and hope that
many Spiritualists will attend to support me.
The Chairman said that within the past week the spirits
had given him, by their own direct writing, a message in
Greek, and had restored his wife’s veil, which had been missing
for fifteen months.
Mr. Enmore Jones moved, and Mr. B. W. Pycock seconded,
a vote of thanks to the lecturer, which was given unanimously
amid loud applause.
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore moved, and Mr. Enmore Jones seconded,
a vote of thanks to the chairman, which was given by acclama¬
tion, after which the proceedings closed.
Spiritualism at the Crystal Palace.—Next Wed¬
nesday, at four o’clock, Mr. George Sexton, M.D., will lecture
at the Crystal Palace on Spiritualism. He should be well
supported on the occasion by Spiritualists, as the popular
introduction of Spiritualism there shows a great and liberal
advance in public opinion. Dr. Sexton’s lecture in connec¬
tion with the Dalston Association last Thursday was a great
success, and proved him to be, although a new, a most
valuable worker in connection with the Spiritual move¬
ment. Mr. B. Coleman first conceived the idea of the Palace
lectures, and made the necessary arrangements.
Spirit Faces.—On Saturday evening, March. 15th, at a
semi-public seance, through the mediumship of Mr. C. E.
Williams, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, about twenty persons
were present. The proceedings began with a dark seance, at
which John King and Katie King talked to the visitors.
Musical instruments were floated about the room while play¬
ing, spirit lights were seen, spirit hands felt, and the usual
phenomena observed. Then there was a light seance for
spirit faces, the medium being securely tied by the spectators
inside one end of a large cabinet, which had three square
openings covered with curtains. Hands and arms of different
sizes and shapes came out of the apertures, and at last John
King showed himself. He was a man of large build, larger
than anybody in the room, and, but for his black beard, had,
at a liitle distance, the general appearance of Henry YIIL,
as handed down in popular pictures. The somewhat dingy
white drapery about him was disposed so as to resemble a
surplice, and on his head was more white drapery, disposed so
as to form a turban. Spirits, when first materialising them¬
selves, have often been obliged to take on somewhat of the
features of the medium; and on going up to John King, and
looking steadily at his features in search of resemblance to
Mr. Williams, only a trace of it could be seen, but the trace
was there. The head of the materialised spirit was very
much larger than the head of the medium. A prominent
member of the Dialectical Society asked to see John King
and Mr. Williams at the same time. John King replied that
that would be one of the manifestations of the future. He
also said that if it were tried at the present stage of develop¬
ment, it would sever the chain connecting him with the
medium. All the time John King made himself visible, Mr.
Williams was in a deep trance.
154 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 1, 1873.
THE DUPLICATION OF THE HUMAN FORM.
Only recently has it been discovered in London, that
in the early stages of the development of spirit forms
and faces, the spirits are often obliged to take upon
themselves somewhat the form and features of the
medium. Before this was . demonstrated, mediums
sometimes suffered innocently from the action of hasty
persons, misled by the suspicious appearances, which is
only another proof that the only persons competent to
deal with many questions of alleged imposture, are
Spiritualists who have had long experience in the nature
of psychological phenomena.
The want of knowledge of the circumstance just
mentioned caused trouble to the Davenport Brothers
years ago. In their biography by P. B. Randolph,
published by William White & Co., Boston, U.S., in
1869, is the following statement how suspicious ap¬
pearances once caused Ira Davenport to be innocently
charged with imposture by his own father, who was
also the commercial manager of the exhibition:—
By the side of this table, on which eight or ten musical in¬
struments lay, stood a small stand, upon which was a dulcimer.
There were two guitars, two tambourines, two violins, two
bandores (or, as they are popularly known, banjos), two bells,
and an accordion.
Everyone of these instruments was floated in the air, over
the heads of that audience, and played while thus suspended ;
the dulcimer accompanying the post morteni: concert as if
touched with magic fingers. A marble slab, weighing forty-
six pounds, was carried through the room by invisible hands,
and nicely balanced on the head of a man who sat beside
Kerrigan, who, while everything was in full play, sprung a
dark lantern, and let a full blaze of light stream out upon the
room.
And now began a strange scene ; for Davenport leaped to
his feet, and excitedly declared that he. saw Ira, his son,
standing near the table, playing on one of the tambourines,
when the light was sprung 4 and that he saw him glide back
to his seat.
With that, Uriah Clark—and no keener observer lives than
that self-same ex-Rev. Uriah Clark—took the floor, and de¬
clared that the occurrences that had just taken place were
splendid proofs of spiritual agencies ; and he called the atten¬
tion of the people to the fact, that, when the light was sprung,
the following instruments were being played ; viz., two tam¬
bourines at the table, a horn in each corner of the room, a
bell near the ceiling, and another over the door, forty feet
distant; two guitars in constant transit through the air, two
banjos at opposite ends of the room, the dulcimer on the stand,
the piano near the side, and the marble slab keeping time on
a man’s head; which, if all done by one boy, or half-a-dozen,
was a far greater miracle than if spirits did it: for all these
were played at one time, and, when the light came, the instru¬
ments all fell in parts of the room separated by intervals of
over forty feet. And, as the light was struck, the man felt the
marble slab on his head ; but when he said, “I have it!”
there was no slab near him : it had instantaneously gone to
its frame, thirty-three feet from where he sat, and no human
being saw7 it go, but fifty saw it on his head !
But Clark’s eloquence had no effect on the irate father of
the media. His blood was up, n,ot in anger, but indignation.
“ I’m positively certain that I saw Ira standing at that table
playing on that tambourine. I say I saw him, and I’m willing
to be sworn to it I ” were his very words, which, coming as
they did from the father and manager of the media, made a
strong impression, upon his hearers, and perfectly settled the
question, once and for ever, as to his own absolute and
thorough honesty in the whole transaction, from beginning
to end.
But what was his utter astonishment when at least twenty
per.-ons leaped to their feet in hot anger, each one declaring
that Davenport did not speak the truth ; for four of them sat
by the boys, and all the rest saw Ira, as well as William,
seated when the light was turned on. This created intense
excitement; for several others coincided with and sustained
Davenpoi’t, they having also seen what looked like Ira stand¬
ing at the table, fingering the tambourine. And now the
strangest thing of all happened ; for, as soon as silence could
be obtained, not less than twepty persons solemnly affirmed
that not only had they distinctly seen the figure at the table,
the double or phantom Ira Davenport, but also the bona jide
flesh-and-blood boy calmly seated in his chair between two
men at the same time.
The phantom had glided toward the boy, but, visibly, it
never reached him ; for it faded into viewlessness within
about six feet of where he'sat. -
Kerrigan, who was a police officer in disguise, then
took the Davenports into custody, but his1 superiors re¬
fused to take the charge. The Davenport Brothers
then gave Kerrigan a seance all to himself, he holding
both of them tightly. ■ The room was all alive with in¬
visible beings, and the spirits closed a powerful seance
by giving Kerrigan a sound thrashing, which the stout
Irishman bore bravely, for he felt he deserved it. He
afterwards made a public speech, in which he fully and
fairly acquitted the Davenports of all trickery whatever,
and he closed by saying—“ I know nothing of spirits,
or how this thing is done, or by what power ; but it is
done, and by invisible beings; and I am firmly and
forever convinced that there is more in this strange
business than either I or anybody else ever dreamed of.”
Three other cases are mentioned in the book, in
which Ira and his clothes were duplicated. In one
instance Professor Mapes, the agricultural chemist, in¬
vestigated the phenomena, and satisfied himself that
the form of Ira Davenport was sometimes duplicated.
fUbteto.
Apparitions. By Newton Crosland. London: Triibner
and Co. 1873.
Mr. Newton Crosland, of whom not much has been
heard in connection with Spiritualism during late years,
was one of the earliest pioneers of the movement in
England, and the book now under notice is but the
second edition of an essay published in March, 1856.
The author states that he believes the earlier edition to
have been the first separate work, written by an English¬
man, which distinctly advocated the spiritual origin of
the phenomena, and which gave the name and address
of the author as a guarantee of good faith. The present
edition belongs to the class of orthodox spiritual books;
it speaks of the “ errors ” of Popery, and contains
deprecating remarks about Methodist conventicles. It
remarks of three Methodist village chapels that they
were little ugly, square, brick boxes, but they enjoyed
the advantage of being rivals, and their supporters re¬
joiced in thinking that the “ truth ” was best taught in
their favourite Bethel or Ebenezer. The book further
discloses that Mr. Crosland’s own particular “truth” is
best taught in the “ holy ” Protestant Church, and that
the burning of incense has in his eyes a certain amount
of value. Spiritualism fortunately is wide, broad, and
deep enough to enclose in its loving arms numbers of
followers who are laboriously walking in scores of
different narrow theological paths.
Fortunately very little of the book is occupied with
theological matters, and the author discloses that it was
at his house that Dr. Carpenter attended one of the
seances described in the Quarterly Review for October,
1871. Mr. Crosland states that Dr. Carpenter gave
“ an account of this visit, which, I am sorry to say, is
inaccurate in almost every particular, either as affecting
matters of fact, or matters of inference ” (p. 29).
Mr. Crosland further says:—
April 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
lu October, 3S71, the Quarterly denounces a number of
persons for believing and accepting certain miraculous inci¬
dents which these persons witnessed deliberately and carefully
with their own eyes. In April, 1872, this same Quarterly un¬
mercifully castigates another class of persons for not believing
miracles which happened more than eighteen hundred years
ago, and which were certainly not recorded in any known work
till four hundred years afterwards. This is a specimen of
modern criticism when it is dealing with creeds which are
fashionable, and creeds which have not yet attained to that
dignity.
Mr. Crosland also says :—
When, through a friend, I invited Faraday to come to my
house to witness manifestations, he wrote to say that he had
not time to investigate such a subject; but my friend brought
Dr. Tyndall instead. The result was, however, very weak and
unsatisfactory, as it generally is on a first occasion ; but such
as it was, Dr. Tyndall afterwards wrote in the Pall Mall
Gazette an inaccurate account of his visit. I sent a refutation
of his statements, but of course no notice was taken of my
communication.
Portions of Mr. Crosland’s book are ■written with
dramatic vigour, displaying considerable literary ability;
it contains two very horrible supernatural stories, which
fortunately do not appear to be well authenticated. It
also contains several well authenticated narratives of
not a little interest. He gives the following account of
an incident in the life of Mr. K. E. H‘ Mackenzie, who
for many years has been one of the most active members
of the Anthropological Institute :—
On the 30th of January, 1856, at the early age of thirty,
died the Rev. Theodore Alois Buckley, formerly one of the
chaplains of Christ Church, Oxford. He was a man of extra¬
ordinary ability ; his life was unfortunate, and his death sad.
When he was alive and well at Oxford, about bhe year 1850,
conversing on the subject of ghosts, one day with a mutual
friend, Mr. Kenneth R. EL Mackenzie, the two friends entered
into a compact, that whoever departed this life first should, if
permitted, visit the other as an apparition ; and the signal of
communication was arranged to be the placing of a ghostly
hand on the brow of the survivor. On the night of the 2nd of
February, about twelve or half-past twelve o’clock, Mr.
Mackenzie was lying in bed watching the candle expiring,
preparing his mind for sleep, and not thinking of his departed
friend, when he felt placed over one eye and his forehead a
cool, damp hand. On looking up he saw Buckley in his
ordinary apparel, and with his portfolio under his arm, as in
life, standing at the bedside. The figure, as soon as it was
recognised, retreated to the window, and after remaining
plainly in sight for about a minute, disappeared.
Mr. Crosland also narrates how a friend of his, Mr.
H., lived on Groom’s Hill,Greenwich; he was an under¬
writer at Lloyd’s, and a gentleman of considerable
mental ability. Mrs. H. in the year 1866 had a young
widow named Mrs. Potter in her employment, and Mrs.
Potter had a son at sea, named Tom, who deserted from
his ship on one occasion, and who was a source of some
anxiety to everybody interested in his welfare. In the
course of the narrative Mr. Crosland says:—
Tom’s mother having thus provided for her son, left the
H family altogether; got married again, and became
Mrs. Cooper. After a time a new servant, who had never
beard of either Mrs. Potter or Mrs. Cooper, arrived, and filled
the office of housemaid. This new servant we will call Mary ;
and so ends the first chapter of my tale.
On the night of the 8th of September, 1866, Mr. H.’s street
door bell was rung. Mary, the housemaid, answered it ; the
door was duly opened, and, after a little confabulation, the
door was shut again. Mrs. H., who was unwell, was in her
bed-room, which commands a view of, and is within ear-shot,
of the entrance hall. She listened, and distinctly identified
the voice of Tom Potter. She was surprised, and called out,
“Mary, who was that at the door?” The servant replied,
“ Oh, Ma’am, it was a little sailor-boy : he wanted his mother ;
I told him I knew nothing of his mother, and sent him about
his business.”
Mrs. H., whose anxiety was roused, asked Mary “ what the
boy was like ? ”
“ Well, Ma’am, he was a good-looking boy in sailor’s clothes,
and his feet were naked. I should know him again anywhere.
He looked very pale and in great distress ; apd when I told
him his mother wasn’t here, he put his hand to his forehead,
and said, ‘ Oh, dear, what shall I do ? ’”
Mrs. H. told her husband what an unwelcome visitor had
been to the house, and gave him the unpleasant intelligence
that “ she was sure Tom Potter had run away from his ship
again.” The family now laid their heads ominously together
and vexatiously exclaimed, “ Goodness gracious,! What shall
we do with Tom Potter? ”
They sent to make enquiries of the mother, but she had
heard nothing of her son ; then they thought he was lost, and
they upbraided themselves for “ turning him away from their
door.”
In their trouble they went to consult the genial Dr. T., but
his opinion only increased their perplexity and astonishment.
He told them, “ It is almost impossible Tom Potter can have
deserted his ship. I had a letter from the boy himself only
about two months ago, and then he was getting on capitally.”
It was then arranged that Mary should have an.interview
with Dr. T., and be examined by him. She was accordingly
ushered into Dr. T.’s presence, and invited to take part in the
council. Dr. T. had a store of photographs of many of his
pupils, and among them was a carte of Tom Potter.- He laid
a number of these portraits before Mary, and requested her to
pick out the one that resembled the boy she saw ; at the same
time, with the view of testing her accuracy to the utmost, he
called her attention to one which was not a photograph of
Tom Potter, and quietly remarked, “ Do you think that is the
boy? he was very likely to run away from his ship.” “No,”
said Mary, positively, ‘ ‘ that was not the boy I saw ; this is
the one; ” at the same time pouncing upon the likeness of
Tom Potter; “ I could swear to him.”
The mystery became more mysterious ; but the only decision
the conclave could wisely make, was to await the issue of
events ; in the meantime they could do nothing but patiently
exercise their faculty of wonder. A solution of the mystery
was at hand. In the next month of October, Dr. T. received
a letter from the Admiralty, stating that they communicated
with him because they did not know the address of Tom
Potter’s mother. The letter gave the sad intelligence that on
the 6th September, just two days before he was seen at the
door of Mr. H.’s house, Tom Potter breathed his last, in con¬
sequence of a dreadful accident on board the Doris frigate at
Jamaica. He fell from the mast-head on the 24th July,
1866, and was frightfully injured. He lingered a few weeks
and died raving, and calling for his mother.
It was at Mr. H.’s door that the ill-fated boy parted from
his mother, and there saw her for the last time in life. This
circumstance may account for the spirit of the boy having
been mysteriously attracted to the spot where he left his
mother, of whose departure he was not aware. Disembodied
spirits only know what comes within the compass of their
experience and capacity. Their intelligence and information
are sometimes very limited. The facts of this story are cer¬
tain and indisputable. I have taken great pains to verify
them.
The following is another incident related by the
author :—
The following curious incident happened to myself. On the
29th October, 1857, I was going from my office to sign,,an
export bond at the Custom House, Lower Thames-street,
when, just as I was crossing Great Tower-street, I was seized
with a sudden and an unaccountable panic. I conceived a
dread that I might be attacked by a tiger, and the idea of this
horrible fate so haunted me, that I absolutely began running
in hot haste, and I did not stop till I found myself safe inside
the walls of the Custom House.
Anything more contemptibly absurd than this apparently
causeless fear could scarcely be imagined. A merchant in the
streets of London in danger of a wild beast! The possibility
of such a disaster seemed to me so ridiculous, the moment
I thought about it, that I laughed at myself for allowing such
a morbid fancy to take possession of my mind, and I really
considered that I must be fast becoming stupidly nervous.
The feeling of apprehension, however, soon passed away, and
wonder at my own weakness became predominant. The next
morning I took up the newspaper, when, to my utter astonish¬
ment, I read that at the same time when I felt the crazy fear
the day before, a tiger had actually escaped from its cage
while it was being conveyed from the London Docks, seriously
injured two children, and had, to the terror of everyone,
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 1, 1873.
ferociously misconducted himself in the public street of
Wapping, 'about a mile, as the crow flies, from where I was
passing. Now here is a mystery, and what is the explanation
of it ? The only satisfactory and intelligible solution I can
give, is the theory of guardian angels. I believe that my
guardian angel saw the frightful spectacle of a tiger attacking
passengers in a London thoroughfare, and immediately came
to my succour, by impressing me with a dread of a similar
catastrophe to that which the angel had just witnessed. But
I fancy I hear a host of sceptics inquiring, “ Why did not the
guardian angels of other people treat them with equal care
and consideration ? ” I cannot answer this question, except by
supposing that very few guardian angels were spectators of the
incident; and perhaps, also, still fewer persons are on suffi¬
ciently good terms with their guardian angels to receive
impressions with celerity while the occasion exists for the
warning to be useful. But in my case the caution was useless.
Perhaps so ; but the guardian angel, whose intelligence is
limited, could not be certain beforehand that the impression
made upon me would prove to be unnecessary. How often do
we think of a friend a few minutes before we see him ? May
not this anticipation be the work of a guardian angel ?
Altogether the hook is an interesting one, and a
useful addition to the literature of Spiritualism.
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Tun:'North British Daily Mail is publishing a series
of articles entitled “ A Tew Nights with the Glasgow
Spiritualists,” which bear internal evidence that they
are written with tolerable impartiality. Some trance
mediums spoke, or have been made to speak, not a little
nonsense. It should be remembered that spirits mes¬
merise trance mediums, and try to speak through them
by will-power, just as mesmerists have occasionally
done the same thing with their sensitives'; still, it is
a process of telegraphy, and it is not safe to assume that
the words »of the medium \ accurately represent the
thoughts of the spirit attempting to communicate. In
some cases the spirit seems to stimulate the medium, in
an analogous manner to the stimulation of a muscle by
nerve energy, so the results may be principally due to
the unconscious mental action of the medium. Some¬
times through a good trance medium, spirits can give
messages with certainty and clearness; dozens have
given their former names and addresses, with outlines
of their lives on earth as well as on the other side of
the grave, through Mr. J. J. Morse, and on subsequent
inquiry their statements have been verified. The Mail
correspondent appears to have been present at some un¬
satisfactory seances, hut the best was with the painting
medium, Mr. David Duguid, which is thus described:—
PAINTING- MEDITJMSHIP.
As was formei'ly stated, besides the iearned Hafid, another
distinguished spirit- did good service to the Society of
Spiritualists in Glasgow—an eminent Dutch painter, “ Jans¬
sens.” A brother artist and a countryman according to
the flesh — Jacob Ruysdael by name — co-operated with
Janssens, we were told, in this wise. One is a figure
painter, the other a landscape painter ; and each furnishes
the details in his own department to the “ medium” in the
execution of a picture in trance. The Janssens of the
Spiritualists is, I believe, Cornelius, a Dutch painter of great
renown, who resided in England many years, and was patro¬
nised by James I., whose portrait he had the honour of paint¬
ing, and also those of his family. He died in the year 1665.
“Janssens,” through his chosen medium, appears to be re¬
markably accessible, to judge by the free and easy manner in
which the “ members ” individually address him. Abandoning
the original pronunciation of his name, “ Yans’ sens,” the
Spiritualists style him Jane-steen, or commonly “ Steen,” in
addressing himself. The great artist first made himself
known to the Glasgow Spiritualists by a “ chosen medium,”
to whom he communicated his art in an extraordinary man¬
ner. “ The medium ” was a humble mechanic, with no artistic
accomplishments to recommend him specially to the man
of genius ; but Suddenly one night, when in trance, cunning
came into his right hand, he signalled for drawing materials,
and, to the amazement of his friends, forthwith began skil¬
fully to use them, as if he had been a professional artist.
“ Steen ” has been his patron ever since, and in trance he has
done several large pictures in oil paintings. It was to witness
one of those wonderful performances that I was inv'ted to the
house of Mr.  on a rainy cold night, when winter was at
its burliest. We found Mr. (the trance painter) smoking
the pipe of peace with three spiritual brethren in his snug
little parlour high above the noises of the street. The room
was an-anged like a studio, an easel was set up near the
window, and on the table in the middle of the room lay a box
of paints, brushes, and the usual requisites of an artist.
After our arrival no time was lost. The medium announced
himself ready to begin, and having finished his pipe, he left
the fireside and seated himself on a chair opposite the easel.
With his legs crossed, and his head thrown back, he sat
motionless for five minutes, then his eyes closed, and he arose
with a faint sigh, and moving to the table, he opened the
paint box, commenced to make a selection of brushes and the
different colouis he intended to use. When the brushes were
selected, he squeezed a little paint out of the tubes containing
various colours on his palette, and intuitively he seemed to
know the tube that contained the colour he wanted. It was
by the touch he discerned the colours. Brown, blue, and
green were set apart for use with great precision ; then
another tube with white paint was squeezed ; then there was
a moment’s pause, and Mr. rejected a tube he had se¬
lected, and shaking his head, tried another ; then with a smile
looked up to the ceiling and nodded, whilst his lips moved as
if he were mentally conversing with someone.
“ He was speaking to ‘ Steen,’ ” a Spiritualist told us, “ get¬
ting directions nae doot. ”
A light-minded neutral, struck with a sense of the comical,
laughed at the suggestion, but he was instantly checked for
his levity, and informed, with awful significance, that “ maybe
he would see something that would make him laugh on the
wrong side of his mouth before all was done.”
Meanwhile Mr. , who was familiarly dubbed “Dawvid”
by his friends, had stepped up to the easel, and was making
arrangements to begin his work. A large white pasteboard
card was placed on the easel, and the first proceeding, of
course, was to draw an outline of the picture. At the sugges¬
tion of a Spiritualist the gas was lowered, just sufficient light
bein^ left to show the progress being made at the easel.
When the outline was completed the gas was put entirely out,
and amid profound silence, the spirit-painting progressed. At
the end of about half-an-hour the sound of the brush ceased,
and one of the Spiritualists whispered “ there was going to be
a change.” The gas was turned up again, and discovered
“ Dawvid ” in communion with his patton. Apparently there
was some little difference of opinion, for “ Dawyid ” shook
his head decisively, and in dumb show went through a lengthy
argument. It was all in good nature, though. You could tell
by the winks, and nods, and smiles that followed in quick suc¬
cession ; “ Steen ” and his medium at last amicably settled
the dispute between them, and the painting went on again.
In the dark the subject had taken form, and the colouring of
sea, and sky, and hills was distinct.
“ Its going to be a coast scene,” said one of the Spiritualists
in a hushed whisper.
“ The Holy Loch or Lochgoilhead, maybe,” but further
speculation was prevented by the extinction of the light again.
Another half-hour or so we sat in the dark in silent expecta-.
tion, listening to the rapid stroke of the brush as it daubed
on the coatings of paint to fill up the coast scene at “ Steen’s ”
bidding, and just as it began to grow irksome listening to the
monotonous flap of the brush, a light, like a blue “ star ” from
a rocket, danced for an instant above the head of the painter,
but vanished instantaneously. One or two similar sparks
flashed through the room at brief intervals, but they went so
quickly out that there was no chance of speculating upon them.
The Spiritualists said the stars were emanations from the spirit
world, and such manifestations were frequent on occasions
like the present. There was another pause of the brush, and
the whisper passed that “ Dawvid” was going to do something
now. The gas was lit again, and discovered the picture ready
for the finishing touches.
“ I knew it,” exclaimed a medium. “It’s on the Clyde;
and there is Gourock Point, the very spot where Dawvid was
wi’ me that Sunday nicht in summer.”
Mr. ’s opinion was declared to be correct on strict ex¬
amination, and we outsiders were invited to draw hear and
April 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
157
examine the trance painting in its finished state. The time
occupied in the work was exactly an hour—from half-past
eight until half-past nine. Of the merit of the picture as a
work of art I have nothing to say.
“ Who were the controlling spirits ? ” the medium was
asked.
The answer, in a low whisper, was—“ Jane Steen and Ris-
dale” (Ruysdael).
When the trance painting was done, the medium passed his
hand over his forehead several times and sat down at the table,
still in trance.
“ Steen, will you be able to dae onything for us the nicht?”
asked one of the Spiritualists, addressing the spirit through
the medium.
“ You must let him come to. The atmosphere is too close,”
was the reply, in the same low whisper.
“ Shall we put out the gas ? ’ ’
“ You may try.”.
We sat in the dark a few minutes, silent and very still, but
had not long to wait this time.
“ Put up the gas,” whispered the medium, and smiling, he
opened a box that was on the table, and took out a white
pasteboard card, the size of a small photographic carte.
“ Steen is going to do something himself,” remarked a
Spiritualist, “ a spirit painting.”
A divining rod was quickly brought, and the individual to
whom the spirit picture was to be presented was pointed to
by a sharp, .decisive movement of the rod. The medium
then tore a small piece out of the corner of the card, and
dropped it into the hand of the person indicated, which was
to be carefully preserved. The card was then laid upon the
table, and the gas was put out. A few minutes were allowed
to elapse, then the medium whispered to “ Light up.” This
was done, but there was nothing on the card, and again we
were put into darkness,—this time for a longer period.
“Try now,” whispered the medium. At length, and lo!
the blank white card was filled in with a miniature copy of
the coast scene on the easel, only more finished in detail,
having the addition of a steamer on the water (the Sunday
boat, we were informed).
“ Who was the painter?” the medium was asked.
“ Steen,” was the reply. No hands but his own had been
on the card. It was a spirit painting pure and simple. It
must be admitted that the sketch lacked the genius that had
characterised the Dutch painter during his mortal career ;
but in order to show there was “ no deception,” the piece
torn out of the corner was fitted into the card again, and
fitted to a “ T.” A few questions were put to Steen by
various parties in the room, which he, through his medium,
was affable enough to reply to,—although, not being well
acquainted with our native Doric, he had a little difficulty in
making out the questioner’s meaning sometimes, he con¬
fessed. He was questioned on the properties of colour,
amongst other things. “ What gave scarlet its durability ? ”
he was asked. The answer from the spirit world may be
interesting to men of science. “ Because the sun has no
power over it.” A young gentleman present, who stated
rather ambiguously that he belonged to “ neither party,”
asked Steen who were his associates in the sphere he inha¬
bited, and if the spirits were all acquainted with one another.
They were not, was the reply. Those who dwelt in a lower
sphere were not. able to see those above them. We were now
informed that “Dawvld” was coming out of trance, and
were, as usual, strictly enjoined to ask no questions, nor take
any notice of what had transpired in - trance. From the
bewildered manner in which “ Dawvid” stared about him
when he came to himself, we were asked to infer that he was
not aware what use the “ spirit” had made of him in trance.
Before leaving the me bum’s house, we were shown a number
of half-finished sketches, executed in trance under the super¬
vision of Messrs. Janssens and Ruysdael. They evinced the
same crudeness and lack of artistic finish ; but Steen apolo¬
gised that it was so long since he had been a painter, that he
had forgotten, in a manner, his art. His hand was out, so to
speak.    
“ The Spiiiittjaltst ” Subscription List.—In response
to the letter of “Justice” suggesting six subscriptions of £5
each to close the list two more have been received, namely, £5
from “ F. S. A.,” and £5 5s. from” A Friend.’’ The aid already
givtn has been very liberal, and it is hoped that three more
subscriptions of the same amount will be received, when the
list will be closed, with the feeling on our part that we have
been adequately supported,
(Kotresptrtience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN DARLINGTON.
Sir,—We have had those generous friends of the cause of
Spiritual reform, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Everitt, of London,
staying with us two days, and it may-be interesting to your
readers to know that on the evenings of those two days we
held seances at my house, to which we invited, without any
partiality, some friends whom we thought were most likely to
receive the greatest benefit from such an opportunity, and
who possessed harmonious truth-seeking minds. Unfortu¬
nately, we, in observing the conditions as to number, had to
limit our invitations, to the great disappointment of some of
our friends who were equally deserving of such a treat. To
have crowded the seances would have spoiled all; and I take
this opportunity of expressing the wish that, at no very dis¬
tant period, through the goodness of our friends Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, they will all have that opportunity. We had two
enjoyable evenings. Great harmony prevailed. The first even¬
ing we had such a quantity, variety, and continuance of the
most delicious odours, wafted down upon us from above, as
surpasses all belief. The tangible corroborative evidence of
fourteen persons is all I can offer ip support of what I say.
Beautiful spirit-lights appeared, which were seen by all, float¬
ing gracefully about, suddenly flashing in our vision, and as
suddenly disappearing. Some, when asked, appeared three
times as an affirmative answer to certain questions relating to
spirit friends. Some one said they were like little stars, so
“ Twinkle, twinkle, little star” was sung, at the commence¬
ment of which a little bright light rose up high, as it seemed
to us, and remained there twinkling the whole time, till the
ditty was finished, to the great delight of my little boy, who,
with difficulty, was contained within bounds, so full of wonder
and admiration was he. We had questions answered cor¬
rectly by rapping signals in the table, and under the surface
of the floor I felt the concussions under my feet. Some were
faint and others loud. By-and-by, we heard a paper-tube
moving on the table ; then, in an instant, it was tapping the
ceiling and the chains of the chandelier. After a pause, a
soft, breathing, whispering voice, addressed us all with
“ Good evening, friends,” and carried on a conversation with
us on spiritual matters for the most part of an hour. The
voice sounded, at first, as though it came from some one short
of breath, but, by-and-by, grew stronger, and, from the
vibration of sound, it seemed to proceed from the very centre
of the paper-tube, as it floated about over our heads, approach¬
ing each one as addressed in turn, and, at intervals, tapping
and scraping the ceiling high over our heads. The tube was
made of stiff paper cardboard, eighteen inches long, tapering
from four to two inches in diameter, hastily rolled up for the
occasion. The voice replied, when asked, that it was the
voice of the spirit, “John Wait.” He answered many im¬
portant questions put to him, said that we were spirits as
well as he, with the exception that we were clothed with
flesh, while he was not. He said he was addressing our
spirits, not our bodies. Our spirits were in the spirit-world,
but, while clothed with matter, were subject to the laws of
the physical world. When we cast off this transient garb, we
would be subject to the laws of the spiritual world. He was
asked some important questions on theological subjects, very
interesting to some, but very unprofitable generally, because
the introduction of them frequently hinders young enquirers
from advancing further, the meat being too strong for their
delicate stomachs. However, I may say that John said he
believed Jesus was God made manifest in the flesh, and, being
one with the Father, He was entitled to equal honour. I
asked him, however, if he had seen Jesus Christ, and he dis¬
tinctly replied, “ No and, I believe, truthfully so, for there
are few of the bright angels who have seen Him, that can
also get near enough to us to tell us so. Our aspirations must
be high, and our lives pure, before they can enter into our
spheres, or the aura surrounding us to communicate their
thoughts and intelligence to us from the higher heavens.
John’s replies were good to the questions put. He told us to
search after truth, apd we should be sure to find it. He stated
that the views he held he had received from a higher source,
and wound up the conversation by telling us whatever we did
not to give up our reason, but always use it in deciding any
weighty matters connected with our future spiritual welfare.
The second evening was remarkable for the greater quan.
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tity, variety, and beauty of the spirit lights, a description of
which, to do justice to them, would take up too much of your
space. Suffice it to say, that all were warm in their expres¬
sions of the pleasure it afforded them to see such unusual
phenomena.
One person present said he saw the spirit form of a much
respected townsman, who passed away some years ago, Mr.
Francis Mewburn ; and when asked if it were he, we had it
corroborated by quite a volley of raps in thiees on the floor,
and some on the table, which were repeated when the spirit
was asked, if it gave him pleasure to be recognised. Taken
as a whole, the seances were remarkably successful, and even
somewhat surprised our kind friends Mr. and Mrs. Everitt.
Great care had been exercised in securing the best conditions
for the.production'of these beautiful and delicate phenomena.
We think great thanks are due to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt and
their spirit-friends, co-workers in the great cause, for their
earnest and useful efforts to convince all within their influ¬
ence of the nearness and reality of the spiritual world. It is
a great work. Now is the seed-time, may there be in store
for them a golden harvest. G. ft. HInde.
Bright-street, Darlington.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
On Tuesday, March 4th, at the ordinary fortnightly meet¬
ing of the Anthropological Institute, Professor George Busk,
F.B.S., President, occupied the chair.
The following gentlemen were proposed to be admitted as
members of the Institute. Mr. C. A. Howell, C.E., Mr. P.
Hardwicke, F.S.A., Mr. E. W. Cox, serjeant-at-law, and Mr.
It. B. Holt, M.R.S.L.
The President called attention to the skull and bones of a
native of Australia lying upon the table. He said that the
bones were of some little antiquity, so far as could be judged
from their colour and general appearance. The native had
evidently suffered from chronic rheumatism, which had caused
a peculiar malformation of one of his leg-bonas. It was also
clear, from the shape of the bones connected with the top of
his breast bone, that his shoulders must have been habitually
higher than the tips of his ears, and he had a stiff neck.
Altogether, the bones showed a long persistent state of disease
in a savage who died, probably, at about the age of fifty years,
and as the conditions of -savage life usually necessitate much
bodily vigour in the individual that he may survive to an
advanced age, this individual appeared to have been protected
by his friends, which indicated a certain amount of moral
culture in the family or tribe to which he belonged. The
slcull had been indented by blows from some blunt instrument.
The skeleton bore strong resemblance to the general Australian
type, and the bones were stated to have been brought from a
burying-ground of Australian savages. (Applause.)
Mr. A. Campbell, M.D., read a letter on the Looshais, a
tribe living near the northern frontier of Bengal. 1 They were
described as almost the happiest people on the face of the
earth.
The President and Sir Duncan Gibb took part in the dis¬
cussion.
Sir Duncan Gibb, Bart., then read a paper on “ Implements
and Pottery from Canada.”
Colonel A. Lane Fox, Mr. Hyde Clarke, the President, Mr.
Franks, and Mr. Topley, took part in the discussion.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., read a paper by Mr. H. W.
Westropp, on “ The Yentnor Flints.” These flints he stated
to be natural flints, and not arrow-heads made by pre-historic
mep, since they had,not. the chips at the edge, nor the bulb
of percussion. Mr. Gould Avery had once stated before the
Institute, that these natural flints did not differ from the arti¬
ficial flints.
The President asked Mr. Avery whether he wished to make
any remarks about the paper, or the Ventnor flint specimens
on the table.
Mr. Gould-Avery said he had nothing to say. On the last
occasion he had spoken from his own impressions at the time,
and he was glad the matter had been inquired into.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
Another meeting of this society was held on Tuesday, the
18th inst., Professor Busk, F.R.S. (President), in the chair.
Amongst the members present were Dr. R. King, Mr. E. W.
Brabrook, F.S.A. ,(Director), Mr. Hyde Clarke, Colonel Lane
Fox, Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr. E. Charlesworth.
Mr. G. Harris, F.S.A., read a paper on “ The Concurrent
Contemporaneous Progress of Renovation of Waste in Ani¬
mated Frames, and the extent to which such operations are
April 1, 1873.
controllable by artificial means.” He quoted the opinions of
several physiologists on the subject, ancient as well as modern,
and referred to the peculiar agencies which operate to produce
both renovation and waste. As these causes are more or less
controllable by artificial means, he suggested that a more ex¬
tended knowledge of the principles of pathology and che¬
mistry would bring them more entirely under our control.
He referred to the peculiar mode in which these powers acted,
and recommended experiment in various ways to bring the
matter to a successful issue.
A discussion followed, in which Dr. R. King, Mr. Charles-
worth, and the President joined.
.Mr. G. Harris, F.S.A., afterwards read a paper on “ Theories
regarding Intellect and Instinct, with an Attempt to Deduce
a Satisfactory Conclusion therefrom.” He gave a compre¬
hensive review of the various theories regarding instinct held
by Aristotle, Descartes, Hobbes, Dr. Willis, Locke, Buffon,
and certain writers of our day, including Mr. Herbert Spencer,
Mr. Darwin, and Prof. De Quatrefages. These theories, how¬
ever opposite, were not altogether irreconcileable, and some¬
thing was to be learnt from each. The author of the paper con¬
sidered that the very perfect and exquisite nature of the senso¬
rial system in animals, contributed mainly to the wonderful
power of their instinctive capacity, which far exceeds, in its
unerring operation, the reasoning power of man, although
limited only to topics of a material kind. He also attributed
to animals some sort of immaterial, spiritual being. Writers
of eminence, both among philosophers and divines, had con¬
sidered that animals would exist in a future state. Among
these were St. Augustine, Lactantius, Archbishop Leighton,
and Bishop Butler.
An animated discussion ensued, in which Mr. Sergeant Cox,
Dr. R. King, Mr. Herring, and the President took part.
Mrs. Holmes’s Seances.—Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, the
professional mediums, have been subjected to much planned
annoyance on many occasions, by people misbehaving them¬
selves and attempting to break down the manifestations.
Lights have very often been struck at their dark seances, to
reveal nothing, as a rule, but the instruments flying at the
mediums, which they almost invariably do, because of the
return of the spirit hands to the source whence they came.
Recently, however, when alight was struck, Mrs. Holmes was
out of her place, and Mr. Holmes was said by some to have a
guitar in the hand of his which was not held. A visitor
sitting near him states, on the contrary, that the guitar was
not touching his hand, but flew to it and fell to the ground ;
and in one of Mr. Blyton’s published reports in these pages, it
was stated how, at one stage of the manifestations, Mrs.
Holmes is, as a matter of course, away from her seat. One of
the most experienced gentlemen present, when the light was
struck, wrote to us shortly afterwards as follows :—“-Having
thoroughly tested the Holmes’s once, I have believed their
manifestations to be genuine, and I saw nothing on this occa¬
sion which led me to change my opinion.” Other of the
observers thought differently, and some persons who were not
present, who also are known not to be friendly to the Holmes’s,
have been circulating an ex parte version of the whole affair,
and an ex parte statement, even when drawn up without
animus, is always strong till the other side is heard. On
another occasion, a person actually tore down the screen,
through the opening in which the spirit faces show themselves,
and said he saw a woman behind, yet on entering the room,
nobody was in it ; and Mr. Holmes says that the seals pre¬
viously placed by the visitors on the doors and windows to
prevent entrance and egress were found to be intact, so that
if anybody saw anything, it was a spirit form. At private
seances in the private houses of ladies and gentlemen, while
both the hands of Mr. and Mrs. Holmes are held, the mani¬
festations take place with power in their presence. Cannot
professional mediums, for their own protection, so conduct
their business that persons shall be admitted to their seances
by previous appointment and written introduction only ?
One method of testing we have adopted on the few occasions
of attending Mrs. Holmes’s public seances has been to ask the
invisible holder of a flying guitar to beat the ceiling with it,
and it has invariably gone whizzing up to the ceiling and
rapped against it, playing all the time. Anybody who has.
seen the large and unusually lofty room in which the mani¬
festations take place, knows the impracticability of the quick
performance of this feat by any human being in broad day¬
light, much less in the‘dark. Disagreeable people assume, as
a mere trifling matter, of course, that mediums can see in the
dark.
April 1, 1873.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
159
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Many communications are kept over from want of room in the pre¬
sent number.
D., Sandhurst, Australia.—^Received. A notice in our next.
F. EL, Calcutta.—Please write.
C. , Boston, United States.—Indirectly connected with Spiritualism,
but too much pressure on space just now to take up collateral
subjects.
A. A. Considering the -facts coming under his observation, and his
general tone of thought, we think Lord Arthur Russell’s letter
was a very temperate one, and have no fault to find with it.
D. Brightox.—If your local newsvendor does not supply the
Spiritualist till a week after date, i t is his own fault or that of
his London agent. Copies are always on sale at Mr. Allen’s,
the publisher, by twelve or two o’clock on the proper day of
issue, and sometimes earlier.
R., Kilburx.—When transparent substances vary in density and
some other properties, they refract light differently, which is
why a glass convex lens placed in air brings the rays of the sun
to a focus. The effect you describe is due to the fact that air at
one temperature refracts light differently to air at another tem¬
perature, consequently, waves of cool air mixing with waves of
air warmed by a hot iron, act together like irregularly shaped
moving lenses, and deflect rays of light accordingly. Cold car¬
bonic acid gas, poured out of' a vessel in sunlight, will produce
the same effect, which is purely physical, and subject to known
mechanical and mathematical laws. The apparent twinkling of
the stars arises from the same cause, being due to the interven¬
tion near the surface of the earth, of currents of air of large volume,
differing in temperature.
Next Friday the House of Commons will consider the
question of exerting British influence with the Spanish
government to induce it to award an indemnity to Mr. H. D.
Jencken, for the, injuries which it will be remembered that he
sustained at the hands of a Spanish mob.
MR. and MRS. HOLMES, from New Orleans, La,
U.S.A., will hold a PUBLIC LIGHT AND DARK SEANCE on
Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings at 8 o’clock. Fee 5s.
Private seances on Tuesday and Friday at 8 o’clock ; also any day at 4
o’clock by special agreement. On Saturday evenings a special seance for
Spiritualists only. 16, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, Marble Arch, W.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Olock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also-
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
DR. HUGH McLEOD, Magnetic and Eclectic Physician,
103, Bell Terrace, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, treats acute and chronic
cases of disease—distance from the patient of no moment. Examinations
made by either hair or carte. Dr. McLeod is assisted by one of the best
clairvoyants in the world. A guinea fee covers all Correspondence. Testi¬
monials, and the highest references.
A LADY MESMERIST possessing great power in the
cure and amelioration of disease wishes for additional patients.
Particularly successful in nervous disorders, or for sciatica and lumbago.
Highest testimonials. Address: Miss Foster, care of Mr. James Tillyer,
321, Oxford-street
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o'clock each
evening. Address as above.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy Svo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
EMANDEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. 0; H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged SO.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Oo.
mHOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
.L CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-plaee, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.O.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from ... ... 0 13 6 I Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests.  0 7 0.1 Unrivalled Black Doe . 110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
WANTED A SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPH.—The author
of the new book entitled, “ Where are the Dead? or Spiritualism
Explained,” wishes to publish in his book a copy of a genuine spirit photo¬
graph. Any person having such an one which has been identified, and
which he would not object to publish with his name and address appended,
will greatly oblige by communicating with “Fritz.” care of Messrs. A Ire¬
land and Co., Manchester.
“ HOSTS” and “ SPIRITS.”—The STEREOSCOPIC
\JT COMPANY have recently produced a series of “ Spirit ”
Photographs of a very extraordinary character. The
“Spirits” appear in a Library, a drawing-room, and in
a Country Lane; the books, furniture, and landscape
being respectively seen through them. Album size, 12
stamps. Stereoscopic, 18 stamps, post free. 110 and
108, Regent-street; 54, Cheapside; and Crystal Palace.
Portraits daily, 12 for 10s.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist —
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq  15'0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”   ... 10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“A Friend.”   ... ..'  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq      5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
O. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.    5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox          5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)   ... ...   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    ... 5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq.   5 0 0
J. O. Luxmoore, Esq. ...      5 0 0
Justice       ."  v  5 0 0
F. S. A    6 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder    10 0
Miss E. Ponder   10 0
Mrs. Rudd   1  10 0
“Longfellow”     1 0 0
Mr. Withall    1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird  10 0
Mr. George Dawson    10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers   10 0
Mr. Rogers   10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald ... '.    10 0
Mrs. Gunyon  10 0
 8 0 0
“Bitterness’  4 4 0
“A Friend,” Temple  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq    3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S    3 3 0
James Wason, Esq. ...      3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness      2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston ... ... ...  .220
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq  -   2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq.    2 0 0
John Beattie, Esq /.  2 0 0
“‘A Friend,”Manchester     110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq  1 1 0
E. Musgrave, Esq   ’  ... 1 1 0
“VJ’...,   110
A Clergyman of the Church of England    1 1 0
B. W. Pycock, Esq. ...      110
G. Thomson, Esq.. M.D  ... 10 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell   '.  10 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)   1 0 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S     1 0. 0
Miss Elislingbury...         10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     1 0 0
Miss J. H. Douglas   ...    10 0
“AFriend” I         10 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B -  1 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   10 0
J. Craig Esq.   0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account ... 0 8 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan JDaw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
160
April 1, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
AN.experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained^ in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for- "every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new'circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re-,
suits will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—
- 1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
■ 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacb other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed leadrpencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should_be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, .let one person .only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means.“No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given.in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of. the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed] and from this time an intelligent
system, of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?”. Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves.to.be related or known to anybody present,,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical.medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies. .
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family eireles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first Sitting of a. circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witnin the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of. volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq.. F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. It. Fox Bourne,.Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq. M.D.; Eev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles K. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M D.; Mrs. Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.-, Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
PhD.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“ George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
‘ ‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.”
In another part of the report the same committee stated {—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their hacks to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or 'touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about afoot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, oyer
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of youivcommittee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.'
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of "Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harris, M.D.
(Pennsylvania). .
HAMMOND and 00., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’.s-inn, "W.C.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE : illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M‘Geachy, 89, Union-street.
IDIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President—The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 371, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —'1 o provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
A CARD.
/riSS ANNA BLACKWELL begs to offer a copy of
r I Spiritualism and Spiritism to enquirers who will call for it at Mr.
rns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C., or send a half-penny stamp
Bur
for postage.
Paris. Afarch 10. 1373.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraskr, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, Louflop, apd published by E. W,
Allen, Ave M&ria-l&ne, London, E,C.
