AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 149.—(Yol. YIL—No. 1.) LONDON: JULY 2, 1875. Published .Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
Reviews:—Keys of the Creeds, 1; Proof Palpable of Immortalitv. By
Epes Sargent, 2; The Soul of Things; or, Psychometric Re¬
searches and Discoveries. By William Denton  2
The Trial of Leymarie and Firman before the Tribunal Correctionnel
(.continued):—Evidence of Mme. Kardec—Alphonse Chevillard’s
Evidence—MT. Wittman’s Evidence—M. Bercall’s Evidence—M.
Jouffray’s Evidence—Mme. Huguet’s Evidence—M. Jacoliot’s Evi¬
dence—M. Bailleul’s Evidence—Col. Carre’s Evidence—Pleas of the
Counsel   ...   ... ...     3
A Partially Materialised Spirit. By William H. Harrison   6
National Association Spirit Circles    6
Mrs. Tappan’s Lecture Appointments      6
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris...   7
Spiritual Phenomena among the Esquimaux   8
Seances With Miss Showers   9
Lunacy Law Reform ... ...   9
Poetry“ I may not be a Prophet 8 ... '.    9
Correspondence:—Clairvoyance—Mr. Thomas Lake Harris’s Position
in Relation to Spiritualism—Thomas Lake Harris and his Notions
—Clifford on Spiritualism—Spiritualism in East London—Danger,
from Within in Spiritualism—Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures—The Im¬
prisonment of Spiritualists at Paris—Dreams   9
Paragraphs: Sacramental Wine,'5 ; The Power of Spirits, 5; Spiritual
Literature, 6; Sunday Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms, 6-; The
Psychological Society, 12; Spiritualism in Manchester, 12; Swe-
denhorgian Books   ... ... ... ...   12
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday: evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TESTIM0NIAL~T0^MR. AND MRS. EAWCETT^
BISHOP AUCKLAND.—At a "meeting held on Sunday evening,
June Gth, it was unanimously resolved to make some acknowledgment of
their services in connection with the Spiritual movement.
After so many years active service in promoting the truth, something
should be done. They have been visited by, we may say, scores of people
living in all parts of the kingdom, who have not had an opportunity of
subscribing anything towards defraying the great expense which neces¬
sarily follows keeping “ open house.’’ An opportunity now occurs.
The Mediumistic qualities of the whole Family are too well-known to be
commented upon.
Subscriptions will be received by any of the Spiritualists in this place,
and by ■ W. Kilbcrn, jun. )H s
Jos. Gibson, j £lon• °ecs-
Bishop Auckland, June 14,1875.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
  Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackivell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
r Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C
Lately Published, Crown Svo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and- espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 13G,' Gower-street, London.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposa’
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, 'and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rul e
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21st, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit o
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OP THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay.upon the following subject
The probable effect^ oT Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russ ell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1875
u
BOOKS OF SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG f, MES¬
MERISM, anthropology; AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street)-
A.I|L LETTEKS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, IBs.; abridged edition,
Bs.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestatiohs, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
LANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little- essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,•12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. Gd.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. Gd.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT* 7s, 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY; by Epes Sargent.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY; by Hudson Tuttle, 7s.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOL0GY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS.. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d,
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
hook, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a La<%. 2s. Gd.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr, Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Is.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
s. d.
Natures’ Divine Revelations         17 0
The Physician. Vol. I. CR. Harmonia    7 6
The Teacher. „ II. ,,      7 G
The Seer. „ III. „     7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „      7 6
The Thinker. „ V. „     7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis  7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land  ;     4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest   7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology       5 0
Answers to JSver-recurring Questions from the People    7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual  .'.  3 6
Death and the After-Life  4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil        4 0
Harbinger of Health     7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age   4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)   7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence      3 0
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion         4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers  8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse   6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves  7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings  5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims    3 0
Congugal Love; Truth v. Theology    3 0
Morning Lectures      7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS. .
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson)   24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written litcle book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist newspaper  2 6
Keys of the Creeds ....,      6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing Interesting
particulars and legends relating to Buddhism   14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)       5 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ,   18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)   5 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) .»  15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen  7 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, .Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public.instruotion
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
V0X.UJV1E £EVE]H. JHUJVIBER ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 2nd, 187B.
Spratalxst
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS —Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
2%e Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist''' in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
F Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remittedbyPostOiH.ee Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than .,£2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUAL IS T’’ NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874* expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epee
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the I/ife of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The .Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
$&ebtetos.
Keys of the Creeds. Triibner and Co., London. 1875.
The anonymous author of this book states that at
one time ho was an officiating priest in a Roman
Catholic Church, and he exclaims that he conscientiously
remained in that position “ even while convinced that
the authority and doctrines of the Church, are founded
■ altogether on what would he commonly regarded as an
illusion.”
The argument running throughout the work is, that
men in all ages and in all nations, create for their God
their highest ideal of a perfect man but with extended
powers, and that as nations rise in the scale of civilisa¬
tion, the character and attributes of the God they
worship rise also. The author applies these principles
to the teachings of the Old and New Testaments, and
shows how many ideas about the Deity contained therein
of necessity arose from man attempting to make God
in his own image. The book is well and clearly
written, and is of a somewhat metaphysical turn. It
deals with the subjects of the Creation of Man, the
Fall, the Atonement, and the Trinity, and criticises the
principles at the root of the teachings of the Christian
Church. As a specimen of the style of the author, the
following comparison made by him between the Pro¬
testant and the Catholic order of mind may be quoted.
THE CATHOLIC AND PROTESTANT ORDERS OP MIND.
Catholicism prohibits inquiry, but allows full play to the
emotions. Protestantism, on the other hand, quenches the
emotions, but allows inquiry, though only to a very limited
extent, inasmuch as it dictates both the method and the con¬
clusion. That is, while Catholicism closes one eye, that of
the intellect, and allows full scope to the other, representing
the feelings, Protestantism wholly closes the latter, and
permits the former to be but half open, and is thus fatal to
both the religious and intellectual perceptions of its professors.
To take as an instance the Anglican divine—whom you truly
rank as surpassing in theological insight all others of his com¬
munion in these days—the late Frederick Denison Maurice.
Well; pure, intense, spiritual-minded, and laborious as he was,
he failed, as you admit, to grasp a single abstruse truth with
such distinctness as to enable him to make it clear to you or
any one. The reason is, that being Protestant, and severed
from the Church, he sought in vain for the keys which alone
can unlock the mysteries he sought to explore, and which the
Church alone possesses. One might as well seek to traverse
the ocean in a fog without a compass. And it is by following
the Protestant usage of discarding three-fourths of the mind’s
faculties, and seeking to judge all things by the remaining
fourth, that he and you have been stranded in difficulty and
darkness. In religion, as in art, reason plays but a subor¬
dinate part compared with that of the imagination. Hence a
Protestant regime, however favourable to physical analysis
or science, is fatal to religion and art, which appertain to
the emotional rather than to the intellectual side of our
nature.
The author pens the following strictures upon the
English nation for worshipping the real too much at the
expense of the ideal:—
THE CULTIVATION OP THE REAL AT THE EXPENSE OF THE IDEAL.
0 missionary-loving England ! sending your apostles to con¬
vert the heathen from their idolatries, while yourself worship
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1875.
2
ping the sun under the name of Christ, and making a fetish
of a book of palpably human origin. 0 Protestant England !
hating and reviling the whole body of doctrine and worship,
from which your own is but a selection. 0 practical, common-
sense loving England! resting all your hopes of perfection upon
a particular record, and taking no account of that side of
humanity which alone makes such record intelligible. How
gladly would Catholicism once more gather you under her
wings, and make you partaker in her Divine secret and method.
As it is, for lack of that sense of perfection whose culture is
the Church’s special function, you are year by year sinking to
a lower level both of aims and of execution. Your guides—
heavens! to think of the destinies of England being entrusted
to the purblind sectaries who profane the sacred name of
Liberal by arrogating it to themselves. Incapable of compre¬
hending and appreciating the ideal, how shall you shape the
real ? Well, well, nature works in a mysterious way, and man
can little forecast the issue from the character of the means.
But for the labour of the scavenger the streets of London
would be impassable, the metropolis of the world a desert.
Ply then your ruthless besoms, “Liberals” of Britain. If
need be, use the torch. What if the Communist of Paris, on
being charged with setting fire to a library, justified the act by
saying that he could not read ?
*******
The road to God is paved with idols.
Proof Palpable of Immortality. By Epes Sargent.
Colby and Rich, Boston. 1875.
Mr. Epes Sargent is an American author of con¬
siderable ability, and modern Spiritualism was indebted
to him some years ago for the useful work entitled
Planohette ; or, the Despair of Science. In the book
now under notice he has collected and printed within
r easonable compass the most important incidents which
have occurred in England and America in relation to
the materialisations of spirits during the last three or
four years. To show how completely he has done his
work, it may be mentioned that he begins by describing
the materialisations of the past; he relates how mate¬
rialisations of a more or less satisfactory character had
been occasionally witnessed through the mediumship of
ICate Eox, D. D. Home, and J. Coons long before
modern seances for phenomena of this kind were
regularly held. He then narrates how Mrs. An¬
drews began to sit regularly for materialisation mani¬
festations at Moravia, New York State, and he tells
how spirits made themselves visible to numerous ob¬
servers through the mediumship of Mrs. Hollis. Then
the materialisations in England are described, a great
deal of space being devoted to those seen through the
mediumship of Miss Cook. Indeed the book is prefaced
with a portrait of Katie King, the first materialised
spirit ever photographed ; this frontispiece is engraved
from a photograph taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid
of the magnesium light. The materialisations through
Messrs. Herne and Williams, and through the Eddy
Brothers, are also described; consequently, between
the two covers of this book are included records of some
of the most marvellous seances that have ever been
witnessed in the Spiritual movement. The English
materialisation manifestations which he describes were
most of them recorded in these pages at the time of
their occurrence, but most of the interesting informa¬
tion he gives in this book about the materialising of
spirits in America is new to English readers.
The following narrative, setting forth how Mrs.
Hosanna C. Ward, of Cincinnati, met her end, is of
interest:—
THE DEATH-BED OP A SPIRITUALIST.
For several years she had said to her husband that she
should pass away in the autumn of 1873, in the twilight of a
beautiful day. The fact verified her prediction; she, too,
like Socrates, was a sensitive or medium in her relations to
spiritual influence.
A few days before her departure she sent for a Unitarian
clergyman, the Bev. Mr. Yickers, and requested him to con¬
duct the services at her funeral, and to say : ” This woman
did not die in the faith of Spiritualism, but in an absolute
knowledge of the reality of the after-life and the fact of spirit-
intercourse.”
She arranged all her affairs, and gave minute directions.
” After the spirit leaves the body,” she said, “ lay the body
out for cooling in this room; lower the windows about six
inches, and allow nobody to come in. ... There must be no
sitting up : go, all, and take your needed rest, as I shall be
doing."
The day preceding her death she lapsed into a deep trance,
and was absent three hours. During this time her arm was
pulseless and her breathing was imperceptible. When she
retook possession of her body, she said: “ There is so much
life in the back brain that I could not pass away. The back
brain must die a little before I can leave.” She then said to
Mr. Ward, who had just handed her a flower : “ The flowers
are a thousand times more beautiful in the spirit-world than
these ! But all God’s works are beautiful, if we are only in
sympathy with them. My dear, it is all right.”
She then spoke of the interviews she had been having with
departed relatives and friends, and said : “ I will go to-mor¬
row.” On the morrow, a few moments before she passed
away, she gave some instructions for her husband’s comfort,
and then, with a smile, looking him in the face, said : “ My
work is now done : the curtain falls.” And so the well-pre¬
pared spirit passed on to the better clime, “ the purer ether,
the diviner air.”
What truly “ inspired” mind can depreciate evidences that
could lend such a lustre to death as they did in these oases of
Socrates and Mrs. Ward ? Who shall disparage the proof
palpable of immortality when it can thus give us joy for
mourning, beauty for ashes, and make the dissolution of the
mortal body the opened pathway to a nobler and more beauti¬
ful life?
It is by no means contended that the mere knowledge of
immortality, any more than of anatomy, inspires all the vir¬
tues. We have seen that it may be accompanied with extreme
vindictiveness and malignity. Belief in anything must be
vitalised by right thinking before it can be productive of good.
But to say that the reflective mind is not lifted to a higher
plane of thought and aspiration by an assured sense of con¬
tinuous life is an absurdity. As well might it be said that the
man who expected to live only a week would make the same
provision for his life that he would if he expected to live a
century. As well might it be said that the Ptolemaic view of
the universe is as fruitful in sublime conceptions as the
Copernican.
Spiritualism regards man not only from the side of his
limitations, but of his possibilites. “ Why dost thou wonder,
0 man,” says Isidore, “ at the height of the stars or the depth
of the sea ? Enter into thine own soul and wonder there!”
The Soul of Things; or, Psychometric Researches and
Discoveries. By William Benton. .3 vols. Boston,
U.S., W. Denton. 1874.
The first volume of this book was published several
years ago in London, and attracted the attention of the
intelligent few in this country who were acquainted
with psychological subjects. In that first volume, Pro¬
fessor Denton—who is an accomplished geologist—
narrated how he gave pieces of fossils and of minerals
to clairvoyant sensitives, who applied the pieces of stone
to their foreheads, then in the clairvoyant state de¬
scribed the nature of the specimens, ascertained from
what regions they had been taken, and by spiritual
vision saw some of the scenes and events of prehistoric
times which were in some way connected with the
substances under examination. In this way the clair¬
voyants professed to see the mastodon and other animals
now extinct, living and moving before their eyes ; they
described their habits, their food, their modes of loco¬
motion, and the external features of the scenes in which
they lived. Professor Denton tried careful experiments
July 2, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3
to ascertain that his sensitives were in no way reading
his own thoughts while giving these delineations, so
that the revelations could not justly be ascribed to the
unconscious action of one mind upon another. He
rolled up many of the specimeAh in paper, and gave
them to his clairvoyants without knowing himself what
specimen was in each particular wrapping under
examination, but the results were in no way vitiated by
this method of procedure.
Clairvoyance is uncertain, yet now and then the
sensitives are able to see things which are taking place
hundreds of miles away from the room in which they
exercise their powers of spiritual vision. Professor
Denton has not only applied this power to the tracing
of the history of geological specimens, but in the last
two volumes of the book before us has published clair¬
voyant revelations about the insects of the coal period.
His sensitives drew various animals as they saw them,
consequently among the numerous illustrations in the
hook, pterodactyles are represented in the act of flight,
swan-necked reptiles are shown paddling along in the
water, and butterflies, beetles, crane-flies, bird-reptiles,
and snakes of prehistoric times are represented in their
native haunts.
Carrying this method of research still further, Pro¬
fessor Denton publishes clairvoyant examinations of the
planets. The alleged habits of men and animals on
Mars are described. A great deal is said about Jupiter,
which is described as inhabited, and not as a hot globe.
On one occasion also a clairvoyant examination of
Yenus was made. So far as our experience of trance
mediumship is concerned, its statements relating to
physical science have been altogether unreliable and
mischievously deceiving, nor has any new discovery in
physics ever been given to the world from this source.
It may be that the revelations of Professor Denton’s
clairvoyants about the planets are equally unreliable,
but at all events he has done good service to the world
by making the experiments and putting the results on
record; for by the repetition of such experiments by
other inquirers with other sensitives, in time it will be
found out whether the different sensitives agree with
each other, or whether the revelations all bear strong
evidence of originating in cases of “ dreaming awake.”
The description in Professor Denton’s book of the sun
as seen by a clairvoyant, does not agree with what is
known of the violent commotion going on at the surface
of that luminary, disturbed as it is by cyclones of the
most violent nature and by sudden outbursts of fiery
vapour extending thousands upon thousands of miles
above the average level of the surface. Professor
Denton himself also seems to be unaware of the strong
evidence that sun-spots are depressions below the level
of the photosphere.
Here is what one of his sensitives, a boy of the name
of Sherman, says that he saw upon Jupiter when
making a clairvoyant examination of one part of that
planet:—
CLAIRVOTANT EXAMINATION OF PLANTS UPON JUPITER.
“ I am not far from it, and I see a great crater. The moun¬
tain looks so curious! It seems flat. I am over it, and
cannot see any peaks ; but I see the crater very plain. Cracks
go out from it; and they are filled with something lighter
coloured than the mountain. As I go nearer it is brighter; it
must be lava. No : when I got nearer still I saw it was light
from somewhere else. It reflects the light: it must be the
sun’s light. It has been lava once. It is glassy, and has
bubbles. The crater must be four or five miles across. There
is a wall all round the crater.
“ There are some very stunted trees there. They are more
like trees than any that I have seen on the planets before;
only the leaf is very thick. It is about four inches long, a
quarter of an inch thick, and three inches wide. When you
take hold of them they stretch like rubber. It is hard to pull;
but I pulled one out till it was about a foot long; but it was
narrow. It went back slowly to the shape and size it had
before. The tree is about six feet high, and four or five inches
through, and bends very easily. It bends with an even curve.
Why! the tree stretches too, but only a little. I stretched
one about two inches. I notice when I pull the leaf out the
veins stand out like ridges on it.
“ Down the mountain I see more trees. I see another kind,
that look like toadstools, but are no higher than my head.
There is a tall plant, too, of a sea-green colour, with a large
body, and two branches that curve toward each other to the
top, and have a flower on the end of each. It seems as if it
would break rather than bend; but it is soft, and something
like pickled cucumber. They look very pretty. The flower is
pink ; but the leaves of the flower are green.”
Supposing one of th.e residents upon Jupiter had been
present while Sherman was pulling the first described
plant, what would he have seen? Would he have
seen a ghost pulling it, or would he have seen the plant
stretching of its own accord ? or did Sherman by some
occult power gain a knowledge of the spiritual properties
of the tree ? or was the vision but a waking dream^?
There is no question as to the good faith of the
author in writing the book. He is well known to
American Spiritualists as a fearless and upright man,
and his writings are tolerably well known among
English Spiritualists. He is thus too intelligent to
select clairvoyants of unreliable and untruthful
character, consequently these circumstances give an
interest to the book which otherwise it would not
possess. In another part of the book Sherman describes
the inside of a temple upon the planet Mars, and in the
course of his statement said:—
A. CLAIRVOYANT EXAMINATION OF MARS.
“ They have a very curious thing here. It remains about
two feet from the floor all the time: just so high. As a com¬
pass turns to the north, and goes back when you push it to
one side, so when this is pushed down it rises up, and when
it is pulled up it sinks down again. Higher than two feet it
is heavy. It looks as light as pumice-stone. It weighs
nothing where it stands. They slide it along. When they
drop it it bobs up and down till it settles in its place. They
use it to measure in some way. The higher it is up the more
it weighs. There are several in this building. They are no
larger than a thimble.
” I see almost everybody has one in his pocket. They are
round as a marble, and glossy.” (“ See what they carry them
for.”) “ I cannot see. They put them away very carefully.
I think they measure heights with it by its weight.”
In relation to the foregoing curious statement
Professor Denton says :—
With the diminished gravity of Mars, and the probably
increased weight of its atmosphere, it is possible that a sub¬
stance exists there whose specific gravity is less than that of
the lowest stratum of the Martial atmosphere. In such a
case it would form a natural barometer.
The book describes the manners and customs of the
various races upon the different parts of Mars, it
describes their work, and gives specimens of the hand¬
writing of the people. It even gives a little information
about their religion; and as the alleged existence of
books and temples and other things common upon the
earth would seem to indicate that the whole narrative
belonged entirely to this world and had nothing to do
with any other, Professor Denton says:—
If the highest embodiment of life on Mars is the human,
and almost identical with that on our own globe, it is not un¬
reasonable to suppose that the moral and religious develop¬
ment of the people there must have proceeded along similar
lines to that of our own.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1875.
Daring one of his clairvoyant examinations, Sherman
exclaimed:—
“Mercy! I think they must have religion there, and
believe in some kind of a devil. I see a representation of a
being with eight horns on his back, claws on his fingers about
six inches long, and on his toes the same. The eyes stand out
like lobster’s eyes. The whole body is scaly and green. The
teeth, are about a foot long. There is a very large man inside.”
From what has been said it will be seen that the
book is an exceedingly curious one, there certainly
being no other at all resembling it on the face of the
earth; but whether reliance can be placed upon infor¬
mation received in this curious manner is altogether
another question. When clairvoyance is employed to
reveal what is occurring at distant places upon this
earth, it has been found upon subsequent investigation
to be sometimes reliable and sometimes unreliable. If
ever communication between the planets should be
established, it will in all probability be done by means
of the little understood spiritual powers possessed by
man, so, however full of error the revelations in the
present book may eventually prove to be, the work is a
first step in the right direction.
THE TRIAL OF LEYMARIE AND FIRMAN BEFORE
THE TRIBUNAL CORRECTIONNEL—continued.
PRESIDENT—M. MILLET.
Translated from the “ Gazette des Tribunaux” and “Journal des
Tribunaux.”
EVIDENCE OF MME. KABDEC.
Widow Rivail, alias Kardec, aged eighty.
Q. What do you do ?
A. I keep the Spiritist bookshop, Avenue de Sfyur, 59.
Q. Was Buguet your photographer ?
A. Yes.
Q. How many times did you go to him ?
A. Three times.
Q. Did you wish for the image of your father ?
A. Yes.
Q. Did you not tell Leymarie ?
A. No. The first time an old man came, who was not like
my father; the second time my husband came, with some
writing.
Q. Was it his waiting ?
A. It is so much reduced that one cannot recognise the
writing.
Q. And yet there is in the Revue Spirits an attestation of
yours, that it is your husband’s writing ?
A. That was so; we recognised it finally.
Q. But here is Mademoiselle Menessier, who made the little
placard in question.
The girl Menessier was called.
The President—Was it you who wrote it ?
A. Yes.
Witness—It is my husband’s writing.
Mdlle. Menessier—Madame, I wrote it.
Witness—You may say so, but that does not prove it,
(Laughter.) How is it that there are two hundred letters
from the provinces testifying to these facts ?
The President.—But you have heard what Mademoiselle
Menessier has just said?
Witness—If Buguet says the opposite of the truth, his clerk
may do like him.
Q. Your husband’s name was not Allan Kardec. Where did
he get that name ? Out of what conjuring book ?
A. Out of no conjuring book.
Q. All that your husband put in his books he took out of
old works published long before his time.
A. I don’t think you ought to make a joke of these things.
Q. Madame, we do not like people who steal from other works
and appropriate what others have invented before them.
ALPHONSE CHEVILLAED’S EVIDENCE.
Alphonse Chevillard aged fifty-six, Chemist.
The prosecuting Counsel asked me some questions, I have
been to Buguet’s.
Q. You knew his process ?
A. I also went to Firman’s, and I have been to a Spiritual
seance at Leymarie’s, where I perfectly understood that the
phenomena they showed us were produced by means of trans¬
parencies, rubbed over with phosphoric oil, and that the
figures were moved, like Chinese shadows, by a brass wire.
Leymarie is, in my opinion, a weak-minded man, but I think
his convictions are honest. I saw at his house a medium who
gave me tickets, some of which I have still, and which bore
the words: “Admit to spirit-materialisations.” {Bon pour
ia materialisation des esprits).
m. wittman’s evidence.
M. Wittman, journalist.
Q. The Figaro published an article by you, I believe, in
favour of Buguet. Did you know that Buguet only made use
of material means ?
A. No, we did not discuss that. I don’t think he took me
for a fool.
Q. How much did you receive ?
A. Three hundred francs.
Q. Your journal did not believe in Spiritists, then?
A. Oh ! no more than in somnambulists and mountebanks
at fairs.
m. beetall’s evidence.
Bertall, aged fifty-three, draughtsman.
Q. Were you not surprised at seeing spirit-photographs ?
A. A friend of mine showed me some. I went to Buguet’s.
I was not at all convinced. I asked him to come to my house.
He would not come, which is easily understood. I said that
it was all trickery.
m. jouffray’s evidence.
Jouffray, cashier to the “ Sociitd Spirited'
The Counsel for the instruction wanted to make me say that
I believed Leymarie and Buguet to have acted in bad faith.
But no, they acted in good faith.
Q. You believe in Spiritism,then ?
A. Yes, I told the.counsel: “Do you know English? If
you do not know English you cannot understand English.
Well, it is the same with Spiritism; it must be felt.”
Q. Perhaps you are a medium ?
A. Yes, sir, I am a medium for presentiments. (Laughter.)
MME. HUGUET’S EVIDENCE.
Mme. Huguet, aged forty-two.
I asked M. Firman to give some seances at our house. My
husband is a doctor, and we see a great deal of society. M.
Firman asked twenty francs a seance for making apparitions
of the dead.
Q. What made you suspect his good faith? Did he not
cause the spirit of a little Indian to appear ?
A. We had five seances, and he made it appear every time.
One day I hid myself in a cupboard, and saw that it was all
jugglery. M. Firman covered himself with some light muslin,
and wound some Chinese crape round his head. I went in
with a light, and dragged some of the stuff away from him.
Firman—Madame could have taken nothing from me, for I
had nothing with me. When Madame came into the cabinet
I was lying on the sofa.
m. jacoliot’s evidence.
Jacoliot, litterateur.
I went to Mme. Huguet’s. I saw the medium, and Mme.
Huguet holding him. The woman Firman rushed upon him
to hide him. I prevented them running away.
Lachaud—Did M. Leymarie seem to the witness to be of
good faith ?
Witness—M. Leymarie did seem to be of good faith, but
quite fanatical on these matters.
m. bailleul’s evidence.
Bailleul, advocate of the Court of Appeal.
I have known something of Buguet since the beginning of
his experiments. I sat to oblige him, but without attaching
any importance to the thing.
Q. What do you know of the little Indian?
A. I was at M. Huguet’s one day when the little Indian
appeared. It was easy enough to see what it was. But I
must add, Mons. President, that when we signed the written
account of these facts not one of us was thinking of an action
at law. We were all quite incredulous, and only wished to
amuse ourselves.
The XIX. Siecle Journal had published the facts written by
M. Sarcey.
July 2, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
5
COL, CAERE’S EVIDENCE.
Carre, colonel of artillery, aged fifty-nine. .
Q. You were also one of Buguet’s victims ?
A. I was not deceived. I am certain that the photograph I
had was of a spirit. I assisted in the manipulation, and there
was nothing on the plate previously.
The President.—Sir, here is the spirit,—here is the dummy
before your eyes; the negatives are there, and Buguet has
confessed the fraud.
Witness.—Buguet may have cheated on certain occasions,
but he has not always deceived people.
Q. Then, according to you, Buguet is gifted with super¬
natural power ?
A. No ; he is only a medium.
[This completes the report of the first day’s evidence. The
trial was resumed on the following day, ISth, when a few more
witnesses were heard, hut nothing new was brought forward.
The rest of the time was occupied with the pleading of counsel,
from which we give a few extracts.']
PLEAS OE THE COUNSEL.
M. Dubois, for the prosecution, said that the most curious
and original thing in this trial was that the accused had
sought to impose upon their dupes by drawing upon the
mysteries of an ideal world. He continued—
“ We will not dwell upon this, however, as we are not con¬
cerned with an inquiry into the nature of Spiritism; there
can be but one opinion as to the absurdity of this strange doc¬
trine, and you have all been grieved and surprised at the sight of
a confidence and credulity which has remained unmoved before
the clearest demonstration. You have shared our astonishment
at seeing enlightened and intelligent men given up to the most
grotesque superstition that the world has ever seen. . . . His my
business to see whether fraud can be detected, and whether it
is punishable. Well, it is only too evident. Buguet has
acknowledged it, has explained it, and we have a criminal act
quite human, very natural, very terrestrial. No demonstra¬
tion is necessary: the object of the accused is evident—to
persuade people that they are gifted with supernatural power—
such is the conviction that Leymarie and Firman have tried
to impose upon the minds of their dupes. Buguet asked
twenty francs, in some cases several times over, as often as he
made a fresh trial; he guaranteed nothing ; he would not
guarantee the likeness. . . . Added to his manoeuvres are
those which resulted in the correspondence with persons in
the country, in advertisements and puffs in the Figaro and the
Journal des Etrangers. The principal puffs, those most
calculated to strike the imagination of believers, were contained
in the articles of the Revue Spirite. In these accounts
Leymarie had an interest; the Revue was his only resource,
and he had besides an interest in the photographs, which he
sold at a profit of fifty per cent. It may be said he did not
know the means employed. That does not matter; he knew
the photographs were done by some means or other. He may
have been ignorant that there was a dummy used as a model
for ghosts, but he was not ignorant that there was a trick in
it. . . . He also wrote articles in favour of Firman, notably in
the matter of the little Indian.
“ It is absurd, of course, for people to believe in such things,
but we cannot avoid feeling some indulgence for the victims.
So much the greater, however, is the guilt of men who have
trifled with the best and purest feelings. I think there is a
serious as well as a comic side to these things. I leave this to
your earnest consideration.”
M. Oraquelin, Buguet’s counsel, said in his defence that he
could not be convicted on the charge of cheating, as he had
never pretended to be a medium, nor to guarantee the like¬
nesses. He did not invent spirit photography; it existed in
America : they were getting photographs from America; why
not make them in France ? If Mdme. Kardec would persist in
believing Buguet to be a medium, when he said he was not
one, that was not his fault. The law had nothing to do with
whether a medium could communicate with the dead, or with
people who chose to believe in the supernatural. Besides
that, persons came to be photographed of their own free will;
Buguet did not tell them to come. All that could be said was
“ So much the better, or so much the worse, for those who
believe in it.” The whole trial resolved itself into a case of
persecution of the Spiritists, and the best way was to laugh
at it.
M. Lachaud, who appeared for Leymarie, said the subject
was a new one to him, and he could not examine it deeply;
he could only remain appalled before mysteries which he
had not the power to penetrate. He would abandon to public
justice the man who had tampered with the sacred feelings of
mothers and husbands, but he was honoured by having to de¬
fend a man of a very different stamp, whom, however much
he might be pitied or scoffed at by some, it was impossible not
to esteem. He might have been too confiding, but as a proof
of his honesty of character, it had been shown to the juge
d’instruction that since his first failure in business, his sole
thought had been to discharge honourably every liability, to
which end he had lived a life of privation. As for his belief
in Spiritism, could any science be nobler? It was not only an in¬
teresting study in itself, but a confirmation of the belief of all
ages. Moses, Isaiah, the Councils of the Church, Pope Sixtus
the Fifth, the venerable Pius the Ninth, all religions, believed
in apparitions.
The President reminded the counsel that the trial was con¬
cerned with the fact of Buguet’s processes.
Lachaud—I have to show that my client is not a fool;
that manifestation of the dead is a fact that has always
been believed. There have always been millions of people who
have believed it. It cannot be said to be contrary to good
sense. It is a question of science. M. Leymarie tried some
experiments with those who are not of his belief, and who
are men of science, and he was convinced. He considers
Buguet to be a medium. Why are there so many people
making these experiments ? That is an argument which no
one has answered. M. Leymarie has received one hundred and
fifty letters establishing the truth of two hundred and twenty
likenesses; and if you will have other attestations, here are
some of another sort; they are signed by Buguet himself.
Dubois. Why were these not produced sooner ?
Lachaud. Because Leymarie thought they should be kept
until the last. In the face of these it is useless to maintain
that Leymarie was not of good faith.
M. Lachaud then considered the various arguments in turn
brought forward by the prosecution, and showed that Leymarie
from first to last was unconscious of the means employed by
Buguet. His only thought had been the progress of the doc¬
trine. Leymarie, instead of being a rogue, was a hero, inspired
by the ardour of a missionary, for a cause which had become
his life. If he were condemned, nothing would prevent his be-
cbming a martyr. If the Bepublic would root out Spiritism,
it must not encourage its growth by persecution.
M. Carraby then spoke in defence of Firman, pointing out
that no one had been deceived, as nothing had been promised.
He cited the names of some of the more distinguished believers
in Spiritism, including Wallace, Crookes, and Hare, adding that
there was no great truth which had not once been ridiculed.
He demonstrated the honesty of Firman from the fact that he
had refused to escape while out on bail, though some of his
friends had urged him to do so. This was not the conduct of
a cheat (un escroc), and to condemn such a man would be to
make him a martyr in the eyes of his own people.
Sacbahental Wine.—At a meeting of the Cardiff Council
of Instruction, held on Saturday evening last, the following
resolution was passed unanimously:—“That this Council,
believing the use of intoxicating wine in the celebration of the
Lord’s Supper to be contrary to Divine inspiration, and detri¬
mental to the success of the total abstinence movement, re¬
spectfully urge upon all Good Templars members of Christian
churches, the imperative necessity for taking immediate steps
to induce their respective churches to discontinue its use.
This Council is still further of opinion that intoxicating drink
is one of the greatest stumbling-blocks to the progress of the
gospel of Christ.”—South Wales Evening Telegram.
The Power oe Spirits.—A letter dated June 21st, and
published in the Northern Daily Express, contains the follow¬
ing passage :—“ Jesus, Paul, and other Apostles were Spiritual¬
ists ; the prophets were all Spiritualists. The voices of spirits
have been heard at all times in all countries. They are heard
now by many, as distinctly as you can speak yourself; they
are by me, although I am not a Spiritualist, and oppose their
proceedings. They can give, and have given to me, the distinct
sensation of personal touch, and that in a most tremendous
manner; they can give visions .that have all the appearance of
reality, and yet are only deceptive illusions. The great curse
of the world is, that these spirit voices and visions have in the
superstition of former times been attributed blasphemously to
the manifestation of the Almighty God on earth. If you
believe what is stated of spiritual manifestations in the Old
and New Testaments to be,possible, then you must admit them
to be possible now.”,
July 2, 1875.
6 THE SPIRITUALIST.
A PARTIALLY MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON",
Last Saturday night, June 26th, I attended a public seance
for Spiritualists only, through the ruediumship of Mr. C. E.
Williams, 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn, W.C. Fourteen
or fifteen other spectators were present, most of whom were
strangers to me.
After the usual dark seance, at which musical instruments
were floated about the room, a sitting for materialisations took
place. Mr. Williams entered the cabinet and was tied securely
by a gentleman who expressed a wish so to do, after which all
the other spectators sat in the dark outside the cabinet. After
a time a phosphorescent light flashed up inside the cabinet,
and out came the materialised spirit—John King—in his white
robes, holding his lamp in his hand. Whenever he wanted to
show himself the curious light in his hand flashed up and then
died away, the total duration of the slow flash being about
half a minute each time. Now and then he floated in one
steady sweep up to the ceiling, and could be clearly seen by all
present pressing his head against it. These things have often
been described before, but I now come to a new point in con¬
nection with them.
As a general rule,’when’spirit-hands or spirit-heads are seen,
they appear through the opening of a cabinet so that it
cannot be told whether they are floating in the air or whether
they are connected with the remaining portion of a body.
John King in floating to the ceiling only lit up his head and
shoulders occasionally: it was never possible to see his legs,
so I asked if the lower portion of his body were there. He
said that on some occasions it was, but that in this instance
it was not. Upon that I asked him to let me pass my arm
right underneath and across his body just below the chest, to
be able to testify as to whether there was anything solid there
or not. He replied that he would try. Shortly afterwards,
while his lamp was illuminating his head and shoulders, he
asked me to pass my hand across the space where his waist
ought to be. I did so, and after my arm had passed horizon¬
tally about a foot under the front of the white robes over his
breast, my hand struck- against something, which he said was
no part of himself but the hand of a lady sitting nearly oppo¬
site me at the table. I asked her whether this was so, and
after some delay—for she apparently did not at first know
what was going on or what was the meaning of my question—
she replied that I had so touched her hand; but in conse¬
quence of the delay, I am not certain that her hand might
not have been touched by something else in the meantime.
John King afterwards brought his lamp down at my request,
no that I could see the end of the drapery below his chest,
and I saw that it ended in a sharp line all round his waist,
and did not droop any further. During these experiments
I was trying to get accurate and not dubious information, and
some of the sitters thought I ought to have been satisfied with
less than I obtained; but John King, who has known me for
many years, had no sympathy with such comments, and no
desire that I should accept anything doubtful, so was doing
his best to make the whole thing clear and decisive. I hope
that on a future occasion he will succeed perfectly.
The general result of this seance has been to bring a tolerably
complete but not absolute conviction to my own mind, that last
Saturday the living, speaking John King was a half-length
figure, and that an arm might- have been passed horizontally
below his waist, from front to back, without coming in con¬
tact with anything material. At the same time, I am aware
that he often comes out quite materialised at full length,
although he then also illuminates only his face and shoulders,
because sometimes I have heard him knock against the table,
while his illuminated bust was high above the level of its
surface.
Mr. Tapp recently told me that when John King exhibited
himself a few weeks ago in the rooms of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation, he (Mr. Tapp) was standing in such a position that
directly below the bust of John King he could see a folding
door behind the form, thus demonstrating that the lower part
of the body was not materialised. Further, when spirits at
ordinary dark seawces float musical instruments about a room,
and play on them with materialised hands, the said spirits
would appear to have no materialised feet at the time, since
no feet ever knock against the sitters on such occasions. Ma¬
terialisations in the light are merely a step in advance of
ordinary dark circle manifestations.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SPIRIT CIRCLES.
The British National Association of Spiritualists, finding
that many inquirers object to visit seances held at the rooms
of public mediums, has made arrangements to meet the re¬
quirements of those who are not prepared to enroll themselves
members of the Association, and who cannot therefore be
admitted to the circles provided for members only.
In accordance with a suggestion made by Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, a fund has been instituted from which the medium’s fee
and the hire of the seance room at Great Bussell-street will be
paid. Each subscriber to the fund is entitled to receive tickets
at the rate of one ticket for every seven shillings contributed, to
be gratuitously presented by them to inquiring friends, who will
be expected to comply with the rules or conditions laid down
by the member of the Association’s committee appointed to
conduct the circle. The first series will begin on the 10th
September next, with Mr. Williams as medium, and will be
continued monthly, under present arrangements, during six
months. The tickets for the first series are nearly all taken
up, but should a sufficient number of new subscribers present
themselves, the committee will endeavour to arrange a second
course at once.
It must be understood that the seances, though instituted
for the benefit of inquirers, are not limited to such only, but
are open to all members of the Association desiring to pur¬
chase tickets. Indeed, the manifestations will be much better
and stronger if the majority of sitters present are Spiritualists
who understand conditions. The circles are, however, dis¬
tinct from those for members exclusively, which can be ar¬
ranged at any time by a certain number of persons sending in
their names to the Secretary, who will assist in negotiating
with any medium desired by the circle. The medium and the
seance room will, in every case, be engaged by the members of
the circle, and not by the Association.
Private persons can also engage the seance room, and make
any further arrangements they please, on their own responsi¬
bility.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURE APPOINTMENTS.
Glasgow :—City Hall, Sunday, July 4th.
City Hall Saloon, Monday, Thursday, and Friday,
July 5th, 8th, and 9th.
Edinburgh :—The following week.
Newcastle :—August 29th and three following week days.
Belper, Derbyshire :—September 7th and 9th.
Liverpool and S outhport :—The week following.
Mrs. Tappan will make no engagements for August.
Address : Care of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook) has left England
for the South of France, and does not expect to return in less
than two or three months.
M. Gustave de Yeh is now at Reiohenhall, [Bavaria.
He will leave there to-morrow to join his family at Interlaken,
Switzerland, and will not return to Paris till late in the
autumn.
M. Leymarie has written to Miss Kislingbury, secretary
to the British National Association of Spiritualists, asking
her to thank the friends who forwarded their affidavits and
volunteered their presence during the recent trial at Paris.
A private letter has been received by us from Mr. J. J.
Morse, in the course of which he says that towards the close
of May he was in New York, and had a test seance with Dr.
Slade, whose mediumship he states to be of a convincing
nature.
Spiritual Literature.—Last Monday a large consign¬
ment of American books on Spiritualism reached the branch
office of the Spiritualist newspaper, at 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C. Soon the most varied selection in the world of
books on Spiritualism and psychological subjects will be on
sale upon the premises.
Sunday Lectures at the Cavendish Rooms.—On
Sunday evening last Dr. Sexton gave the first of his new
series of lectures at the Cavendish Booms, to a large audience.
His subject was the “ Characteristics and Tendencies of the
Age.” Next Sunday evening he will deliver a discourse on
“ The Doctrine of Metempsychosis, Ancient and Modern,” a
subject which is just now creating considerable interest
amongst Spiritualists.
July 2, 1875.
THE SPIJEUTUALIST.
7
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Oyjing to the curious way in which things are done
in France, Messrs. Leymarie, Firman, and Buguet, after
being sentenced by the Tribunal Correctionnel to various
terms of imprisonment, quietly left the court like ,other
spectators, it being the custom in Paris for persons so
situated to present themselves to the police at whatever
time within fifteen days after judgment is most con¬
venient to them, to take their term of imprisonment.
Mr. Firman, in the course of a letter to Mr. Samuel
Chinnery, says :—
v I just write a few lines to ask you if you think that the
Spiritualists of London would do anything to assist my wife
during my imprisonment. If they can only do a little, it will
be very thankfully received. You know that while I am there
I shall not be able to do anything for her or for myself: and
as I am going innocently (which G-od who is my judge knows),
I feel that you will not think it a presumption on my part in
asking you to do this for me.
In the course of the same letter, Mr, Firman says
that he intends to take up his quarters at Sainte Pe-
lagie on the 28th of June; consequently, if he had acted
upon that idea, he would have begun his term of im¬
prisonment last Monday.
We have received the following letter from Mr.
O’Sullivan:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—I am happy to tell you that Leymarie has appealed to
the Cour d'Appel. He had left the matter entirely to the deci¬
sion of his friends, telling them that he was alike ready to accept
the one year’s imprisonment under his first sentence, or five
years, if necessary under the possible sentence on his appeal.
He would do whatever the members of the Societe des Spirites
deemed best in the interests of Spiritism. His appeal was
put in on Saturday, the last of the days allowed for that
purpose.
I understand that Buguet has also appealed—at least his
counsel stated to a brother lawyer that he would.
It is to be hoped that at the trial of Leymarie’s appeal
Lachaud will this time go into the basic question of spirit
photography. His client’s case being that of his good faith
and real belief in the genuineness of the photographs, it will
be materially strengthened by showing that the thing is really
possible, and that many at least of Buguet’s pictures were
genuine.
Firman has decided not to appeal. He would probably
have no better chance before a judge robed in red than before
those in black, and he deemed it not worth while to throw
away more of his friend’s money, only to have his sentence
aggravated. He has notified the Procureur de la Republique of
this, and asked for a month of liberty before going to take up
his quarters in the prison, which * he asked might be that of
St. P61agie. If not the full delay asked, some time will no
doubt be accorded to him, that being the French way. His
mediumistio power seems gradually returning to him, for
yesterday Count de Bullet obtained the materialised form of
his sister, deceased, whilst Firman was visible at the same time,
lying entranced.
Leymarie is preparing a pamphlet, which will contain a full
report of the trial, with all his letters, and the certificates sent
from England. It will be ready in about a week.
I may mention that on the same evening after the trial, the
Procweur Substitut (M. Dubois) received a great step of pro¬
motion in his professional career. It may have been an acci¬
dental coincidence, he being a man of distinguished ability,
but it looks very like the presence of some potent influence be¬
hind this persecution of Spiritualism in Paris, and strengthens
of course the belief of those who see that influence in the
Church. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Spiritualists have been placed in a very false posi¬
tion before the public, because the French counsel who
argued the case did not present the whole truth, no
matter whether the Tribunal Correctionnel believed it
or not. The true position is, that spirit-photography is
a fact, and that Buguet, who will say or do anything
which coincides with his self-interest, added to his real
powers—which were not under his own control—by
introducing imposture which was under his control,
and much more profitable.
We have been favoured with the following letter
from Mr. Samuel Chinnery :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—My account of the Paris trial of Messrs. Leymarie,
Firman, and Bnguet has been delayed by business occupation
since my return.
I distinctly state, from very close observation, that the two
first persons charged had no chance, and that the latter sank
with them whilst he expected a better fate than that which he
shares with more honest men.
No criminal could appear so miserable as Buguet did. To
the witnesses who observed him nothing could be more
patent; his impudence contrasted badly beside the calm de¬
meanour of M. Leymarie, who had to listen to unexpected
remarks implicating his sense of honour and probity, as so
well and clearly set forth in his defence by Maitre Lachaud.
I conversed with witnesses from Madrid, from Sweden, and
with military officers from Versailles, who had come to testify
to the truth of Buguet’s mediumship; I heard assertions from
honourable and decorated gentlemen, who in their own
country, in other circumstances of jurisdiction, must have
carried the day for the two innocent persons charged, and for
our cause.
The efforts made by means of affidavits from England, from
many honourable witnesses of social standing and mercantile
and philosophic ability, had no effect. Care had been taken
to have them certified to by the French Consul, but they
became of no avail. When questions touching proof were
advanced, silence was ordered and command given to “ sit
down.”
The French military officers loudly expressed their senti¬
ments in the corridors of the court, and foreigners had to
restrain their most violent imprecations at treatment which
could never have occurred in an English court. One colonel
complained that justice was dead in France, although he
should still stand by his colours, hoping for a better time.
It is most distinctly understood that the deal box containing
the figures alleged to have been used by Buguet in producing
the phantoms in his portraits, were simply manufactured by
him or his myrmidons between the time he was advised by
the authorities that he was liable, and that he would be
arrested.*
Of 15,000 portraits taken, a fraction amounting to 200
of sitters residing in various distant parts, could have been
certified in the court as containing also likenesses of deceased
persons, who thus appeared on the photographic plates operated
upon by Buguet; the white deal box contained but about 300
mannikins. One of these was ridiculously placed on a table
to confront each witness ; many looked upon the device with
perfect contempt, and-realised the unfair intention indicated.
Roars of laughter and charming hilarity gilded the Court of
Justice, and when the final verdict was given, the only relief
was to see the judge smile between oceans of snuff, and his
companion on the left bursting with laughter, whilst two
honest men were consigned to durance vile—Leymarie to
twelve months, Firman to six months of imprisonment,
and this in contradiction to evidence. The pieces de convic¬
tion, in Firman’s case, were not produced—no clothing that
Mme. Huguet seized. This is marvellous as against the get-
up of the bogus dolls set to frighten and obfuscate witnesses.
Where was the white shawl ? Where the hat and feathers,
and the black crape and gloves ? No one in the honourable
court could explain this. Mme. Huguet could not find them,
or simply did not produce them. It is strong presumptive
evidence against the accuser, Monsieur Huguet, that his wife
in reality never captured the white dress, or that it was
charmed away ; the production would have been more com¬
plete than that of some stupid cardboard dolls, manufactured
to prove the case through the miscreant Buguet. This man
cannot practise successfully in France, and it is absolutely
necessary that his name be registered with his pho¬
tograph wherever he may go. His name he may change ;
his photograph remains to convict him of that cu¬
rious and inconvenient dishonesty incidental to many
mediums. It is a startling fact that in this subjuot, as in
many capacities of life, we find the most mysterious and
grotesque confusion between good and evil action. We must
therefore think charitably of those mediums who help us on,
although they fail us at times; they are a kind of vagabond
* What evidence has Mr. Ohinnery of this ?—Ed.
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1875.
martyrs, and we should honour those who, like Firman and
Leymarie, stand to their guns for our sake. In regard to Mr.
Leymarie, humanly speaking, his position is most painful. In
respect to Firman, he can get his living here as a medium, and
will submit, as he has always done, to our test conditions.
The pseudo-prisoners enjoy liberty now, and can really take
their term when they like, or within a reasonable time.
Should they appeal, they may get the sentence reversed or
increased. It is to be hoped they may not appeal. Firman
says he shall not. It is probable if they accept the sentence
the term of imprisonment may be modified.
The question arose whether the British Association of
Spiritualists should not aid in the grand trouble. Firman
appeals for help on account of his wife, who is penniless. The
Comte de-Bullet will help, but_it may be imagined how his
purse has been drawn upon.
A grand vote of thanks is due to our dear brother Mr.
O’Sullivan, who at the risk of anxious interest has fought the
battle of the martyrs so well; also many kind regards are due
to Comte de Bullet, Mme., Mdlle., and M. G. de Veh, for their
fearless appearance before an unfriendly court. It is a very
dangerous subject, evidently, to engage in in France.
In your next number, if you will allow me, I will make some
general reflections bearing upon the case, and in reference to
other conduct in the matter. S. Chinnery.
4, Elsham-road, Kensington, W., June 28th, 1875.
As Buguet is nearly destitute of all sense of right and
wrong, and has owned himself and proved himself to
be a thorough impostor, there seems no reason for
assuming that he has not for a long time been using
wooden mannikins to aid him in producing those spirit
pictures which he could not obtain by real mediumship.
It would be profitable to him to do so, because in all
probability he could not obtain more than three or four
spirit pictures a day by genuine mediumship. Therefore
the charge that he made these wooden dolls after his
arrestl should not be made unless there is ample proof.
Unless such evidence is forthcoming, the charge had
better be publicly withdrawn, or a good cause may be
injured by exaggeration.
Immediately after the close of the trial, M. Gustave
de Yeh left France, and in a private letter to Mr.
Harrison from Rei6henhall, Bavaria, dated the 25th of
June, he says that the enemies of Spiritualism will fail
in their attempts to crush out the belief in France; he
adds:—
The whole proceeding will only result in a new edition of
Allan Kardec’s works, and in awaking the most eager curiosity,
consequently will bring in hundreds of new converts. In the
very midst of the Court, the moment the condemnation of the
accused had been pronounced, the hottest of discussions began,
and was continued all the way down the staircase into the
court-yard. We could not help smiling at the quite unlooked-
for scene. . . . Firman is twenty-five years of age, and was
married only a fortnight before his arrest. Buguet and
Leymarie remained only one week in prison after their first
arrest, but Firman, being a foreigner, was kept six weeks in
solitary confinement, and when brought out for examination
he was in chains. After six weeks, bail was at last accepted,
but not less than six thousand francs, whereas, Buguet and
Leymarie only deposited one thousand francs each.
Mr. Firmau being an American, it is to be hoped that
American Spiritualists will draw the attention of the
United States Government to the preceding facts.
Only those who have been placed in positions wherein
they have had to defend the truths of Spiritualism while
the outside world and even some section of Spiritualists
were inveighing against them, can fully appreciate the
debt of gratitude under which the movement labours to
those who took the most active part in supporting
Messrs. Leymarie and Firman during the late trial.
The work was anxious and responsible in the highest
degree, so that recognition is especially due to Mr.
O’Sullivan, Mr. Chinnery, and Mr. and Mrs. and Miss
de Yeh.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AMONG THE
ESQUIMAUX.
The following is extracted from a notice in the Saturday
Review of a book entitled Mythologie et LUgendes des Esqui¬
maux du Greenland. Par 1’Abbe Morillot.
According to the old belief every being endowed with animal
life, human oi; other, had a soul distinct from the body, which
it could quit without necessarily causing death, and into which
it could return. Although visible to especially gifted men only,
it had exactly the same form as the body to which it belonged,
while of a more delicate and ethereal essence. After the death
of the body its existence continued, and traces are to be found
of a belief in transmigration presented under a strange aspect.
Not only could the soul of a living man animate a dead one,
not only could it enter the body of an inferior animal, not
only could it be cut to pieces and come together again, but the
lost portion of one soul could be replaced by the corresponding
portion of another. A belief in ghosts and haunted houses,
universally diffused over Greenland, is apparently attributed
by M. Morillot to the influence of the Scandinavian settlers ;
but we do not see how the ordinary ^every-day spectre of the
country village could do otherwise than flourish in the presence
of the aboriginal creed described above.
The Christian missionaries succeeded in bringing these odd
notions concerning the soul into a tolerably orthodox condi¬
tion, but they were not equally fortunate when dealing with the
“ Inue ” (in the singular “ Inua ”), or genii, who still retain
their primitive form in the the minds of the Esquimaux. By
these, according to ancient tradition, the whole visible world
was governed, under the supreme .rule of T6r&rsuk; and
although some of them were merely human souls, elevated
after their separation from the body, others had always been
“ Inue ” and nothing else. High among the “ Inue ” proper
are the “ Ingersuit,” who dwell on the sea-coast and who are
subdivided into a good and evil class. The former protect the
conductors of the “ Kajak ” (the Esquimaux boat), and among
the rocks may sometimes be found a pleasant spot upon which
their habitations are built. In such a place the fishing imple¬
ments proper to Greenland, but fashioned in a superior style,
may also be discovered, and there are provisions in abundance.
The good “ Ingersuit ” not only protect fishermen, who would
often perish without their assistance, but fish on their own
account, having boats of their own. They are generally invi¬
sible, but it is known that their form is human, save that
their noses are abnormally small and that they have red
eyes.
The religious system above described was favourable to the
growth and maintenance of a powerful hierarchy. With the
aid of the protecting “Inua’’ the Angakok (in the plural
Angakut) or priest performed the high functions attached to
his office. To obtain a position so elevated a training from
infancy was required, and the child selected was first endowed
by a priest with the gift of clairvoyance. It was necessary
that he should conquer all fear of spectres or genii, and by
frequent acts of devotion, such as fasts and invocations to
Tornarsuk, always performed near the same spot, the soul of
the neophyte was freed from the bondage of the flesh and the
outer world. When he had reached this degree of elevation
the great T6rnarsuk himself appeared to him and presented
him with a “ Tornak,” or assistant genius. During this
process of initiation, as it may be called, the neophyte became
insensible. There are caverns in Greenland where stones with
a broad surface are to be seen, and it is said that the future
Angakok was to rub this with a smaller stone, until the voice
of Tornarsuk was heard from the depths of the earth.
The power of the Angakut was enormous. They were at
once the legislators and judges of the people. They regu¬
lated all matters connected with religion; they alone were
able to contend against sorcery. The latter faculty is most
valuable, for of all the sins committed by the Esquimaux,
sorcery, which was always practised for the purpose of inflict¬
ing injury, was the most deadly. Every kind of evil could be
attributed to the exercise of the blackest of arts. An adept
who touched with human bones the implements of a fisher¬
man ensured the utter failure of a venture; and by mixing
them with food he could cause sickness, insanity, and death.
Morsels of a seal placed upon tombs rendered the owner of
them unlucky in all his bargains. Arrows were fashioned
which were sure to hit their mark, and inflict incurable
wounds. Some of the more experienced sorcerers were able
to pursue the intended victims with souls released from their
bodies and encased in new forms, which were only discernible
by an Angakok or clairvoyant child. Whence the sorcerers
July 2, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 9
derived their power is not recorded, and it is strange that in
such a complete system of demonology as the religion of the
Esquimaux we find no attempt to personify the principle of evil.
One of the most important rites performed by an Angakok
was called a “ Torninek.” In the evening several persons
assembled in a house from which light was completely excluded.
Persons in mourning and persons of ill-repute were equally
inadmissible. The Angakok caused his hands to be tied behind
him, placed his head between his knees, and sat by a drum
and a suspended thong. A hymn was then sung by all the
company, and when it was ended the priest began to invoke
Torn&rsuk, or a familiar genius, accompanying his voice by
blows struck upon the drum. The arrival of the Tornak was
made known either by a flash of light or by a peculiar sound.
If information on any subject is required or advice is to be
asked, the priest puts a question, and a voice, which is that of
Tornarsuk, or more frequently of an Inua, is heard to reply
from without. These replies sometimes share with those
given by oracles of greater repute the quality of being hard to
understand. Sometimes on the occasion of these solemn
assemblies it was necessary for the Angakok to fly like
a genius, instead of invoking one, especially if something was
to be learned or done a long way off. In this emergency he
raised himself from the ground, and shot through the roof,
which opened in proportion to the magnitude of his power.
Whether he crossed the land or sea, his passage was always
visible, and left a trace indicating to his fellow-priests the
road he had taken.
SEANCES WITH MISS SHOWERS.
On Wednesday evening, last week, Mrs. and Miss Showers
invited some friends to a seance at 103, Seymour-place, Bryan-
ston-square, London, W. Among the guests present were
Mrs. Sehletter, the Misses Schletter, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. T.
H. Noyes, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Last Thursday another seance through the mediumship of
Miss Showers was held at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W. Among the
witnesses present were Sir Thomas Sinclair, M.P., Mrs. De
MorSan, the Countess of Caithness, Mr. Bennett, Mrs. Wise-
man> Mrs. Showers, Capt. James, General Brewster, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison.
At both these seances the manifestations were of the nature
so often described in these pages. Some curious tying tests
were given, the hands of Miss Showers being firmly bound by
the spirits to the back of a chair by means of a piece of rope,
which was elaborately fastened with hard double knot—sno
twists. These knots Mrs. Schletter, at the first seance, spent
some time in examining and untying, after the manifestations
were over. While the arms of Miss Showers were thus firmly
bound together and to the back of a chair, another chair was*
threaded in the dark room on to her arms, and after being
examined was taken off by the spirits ; about fifteen seconds
were occupied in putting it on and taking it off, thus presenting
an example of the passage of matter through matter.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
The Prospectus of the Lunacy Reform Association (64,
Berners-street, W.) says :—
The Irish blue books state that it is customary in Ireland to
incarcerate as lunatics troublesome characters, and that the
poor when old and sick, or “ actually dying, are continually
committed upon magisterial warrants, females alike with
males.” The same process is also pursued with “ noisy,
troublesome children.” Six sane, able-bodied persons were
found, in the year 1872, incarcerated as lunatics in one asylum
alone, in default of securities to keep the peace,—22nd Irish
Lunacy Report, pp. 6, 9.
In the Scotch Reports we continually find cases of improper
and injurious detention; the commissioners dwell much on
the cruel injuries sustained by patients in asylums, the causes
of which cannot be readily ascertained; but say it should be
remembered that “ violent or murderous assaults by lunatics
are very rare out of asylums, and very frequent in them.”
They also state, “ We occasionally see patients whose lunacy
we feel convinced is confirmed instead of being removed by de¬
tention,” and “We believe that some escaped patients who are
taken back to asylums might properly have been left at large.”
. —l&th Scotch Report, pp. 68, 60, 62.
In the “ Act to amend the Law relating to Lunatics,” 16th
and 16th Viet., e. 111., s. 40, it is enacted that all private
patients’ letters shall be sent as addressed, or shown to the
visitors at their next visit, but this provision is now almost
universally set aside, and a patient’s letters are as a rule sent
to the person procuring his incarceration. Through these
means the detention of the Rev. L. T. has lately been pro¬
longed for many years after his recovery ; and similar instances
continually occur,
Without here entering into disgusting details, this Associa¬
tion can certify that the treatment of patients both in public
asylums and proprietary madhouses is frequently revolting and
brutal to the last degree, and that in the latter the patients
endure privations often in inverse ratio to the payments made
for them; that the foulest sanitary conditions prevail; and
that even high-born ladies are subjected to the coarse custody
and insulting manipulations of ordinary male attendants,
men habitually taken from the most rough and illiterate
classes.
It may be confidently asserted that the whole lunacy system,
both as regards the security of personal liberty for the sane
and due care for the insane, is so lamentably defective that
nothing less than a complete reconstruction of the whole will
meet the requirements of the case. This Association there¬
fore earnestly desires to obtain such a “ Select Committee on
Lunatics ” as sat in 1859, when it is hoped that the evidence
of released patients, and of their friends, and that of asylum
attendants may be taken.
MB. J. J. MORSE A POET
The following verses, written by Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known English
trance medium, were published in the Banner of Light, of June 19th last,
under the title of
“ I MAY NOT BE A PROPHET."
I may not be a prophet; but methinks I feel the time
When freedom’s breath shall fan the cheeks of all in every clime ;
When labour shall be virtue, and religion shall be truth,
And all earth’s sons and daughters shall enjoy a lasting youth!
I may not be a prophet; but is not the era near,
When the Church will cease to rule men through dogma, creed, or fear ?
When human life and Nature’s laws, in harmony entwined,
Will be the base of better lives, the Christ of all mankind?
I may not be a prophet; yet soon will dawn the day
When science and religion will the highest truths display;
The voice of each, eternal, shall resound throughout the land,
A system then, for head and heart, will reign on every hand.
I may not be a prophet; but the time is almost here
When the woman with the man shall stand and take her proper sphere.
Restricted and confined she’s been, in all the ages past;
Thank God! those states are almost dead—she will be free at last.
I may not be a prophet; yet how soon may it arrive—
That epoch in the world’s career when love for rule shall strive;
The birth of peace, the death of war, the silencing of gun,
The prize of peace we’re striving for will then be nobly won.
I may not be a prophet; yet the fabled time’s at hand
In which the nations shall combine as one united band.
That day will see one God, one Church, one government on earth,
The long expected golden age, the truer second birth.
I may not be a prophet; but methinks I feel the time
When Freedom’s breath shall fan the cheeks of all in every clime;
When labour shall be virtue, and religion shall be truth.
And all earth’s sons and daughters enjoy a lasting youth!
New Haven, Conn., May 17th, 1875.
tEortespimTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—You ask me whether I do not think that “ brain sym¬
pathy” with what is taking place in the brains of others 300
miles away is extraordinary ? In one sense it certainly is, but
allow me to explain. The great art of philosophy is not only
to generalise but to detect true difference, for otherwise the
generalisation may not be wholly true ; hence Plato said,
“Give me the man who can divide and define and I will call
him a god; ” hence also Bacon’s great principle of induction
was chiefly by exclusion. But Spiritualists bundle all sorts of
quite different matters together under the term Spiritualism,
and so it is with the term clairvoyance, under which are
included two very different classes of facts, such as brain sym¬
pathy and fore-vision. But the mental fact of fore-vision,
divination, and prophecy is a totally different matter, and the
more wonderful since we cannot in the least comprehend it;
and wonder is, as Bacon defined it, “ knowledge broken off.”
10
July 2, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
In the eagerness for knowledge we invent all sorts of fictions
to account for what we do not understand. Thus ignorance
and wonder are the parents of superstition, and in superstition
fear plays a great part.
In the “ lower ” animal world we find the same two classes
of clairvoyance—that fine sense and sympathy by which each
• creature distinguishes and keeps to its own species, and by
which it detects or selects the food required by its particular
nature. But we have a very different fact in the clairvoyance
or instinct which, as it were, overleaps experience. Let Mr.
Wallace and Mr. Herbert Spencer say what they will of their
mechanical theory of inherited experience, thoughtful Spirit¬
ualists will see with me that the infinite variety and reliability
of the animal instincts cannot be accounted for in that way
any more than the germ cell imbibing all the possibility of a
future being, is accounted for by' Mr. Darwin’s clumsy me¬
chanical theory of what he terms “ pangenesis,” or any more
than Messrs. Bray and Wyld’s theory of force as an entity
accounts for force. But the fact of sympathy at a distance
Bacon thought to be one of the deepest secrets in nature.
But all nature fundamentally is a profound secret, though for
all purposes it is sufficient to recognise the nature of the cause
in its results, and the supposition of a cause for causation is
simply foolish, and really explains nothing. We can only
reason on what we know of the order of nature—that is, in
respect to conditions, consequences, and the laws concerned.
And we next deal with the facts of Spiritualism by induction
just as in respect to any other matters, and in the end I doubt
not but we shall find that they are not anomalies, or essen¬
tially of another nature.
But to return to the question of brain sympathy, let me
refer to another great German authority and witness. Goethe
describes instances of his grandfather’s insight or clairvoy¬
ance, and says that: “ It is worthy to note also that persons
who showed no signs of prophetic insight at other times ac¬
quired it for the moment while in his presence, and that by
some sensible evidence, presentiments of. diseases or death,
which were then occurring in distant places; but no such gift
has been transmitted to any of his children or grandchildren,
who for the most part have been hearty people enjoying life,
and never going beyond the actual.” See Goethe’s auto¬
biography. But surely Goethe was wrong in attributing the
facts connected with so many persons to ill health, nor is it
clear what he meant by “ the actualhowever, that does not
concern the reality of the fact recorded.
Henb's: G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Gare, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
MB. THOMAS LAKE HABEIS’S POSITION IN RELATION TO
SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Mr. Robinson has favoured us with Mr. Harris’s opinion
concerning manifestations, the character and explanation of
which constitute the investigation and study of Spiritualists
in most parts of the world. We are much obliged to Mr.
Robinson for publishing, for the benefit of inquirers, a letter
which was designed to be private. It is a fair contribution
for the consideration of such inquirers; but if it is given as
anything more than that—if it is advanced as a dogmatic
teaching, an ex cathedra announcement from one constituting
himself an authority in Spiritualism, and especially if he
makes an announcement as a religious teaching, I think the
readers of the letter would do well to pass it by altogether. So
soon as Spiritualism comes to be erected into a new religion,
so soon as it ceases to be regarded as a philosophic investiga¬
tion of our mental being here, and its probable career after
the life in the body is past, and held up as a subject for
dogmatic belief regarding that career, it will share the fate of
all religions ; audacious, conceited, and cunning men will take
advantage of the human craving for accurate certainty touch¬
ing the future, will constitute themselves intermediates between
Deity and Humanity, indue the priestly pride and garb, place
themselves above their fellow-men, hold the power thus seized
by ever developing dogma and device, and finally establish
idolatry in place of sincere spiritual investigation. Already
Mr. Harris has placed himself at the head of a sect, and
sways their minds and their deeds with the unmistakable
autocracy of a hierarch. For aught I know he may do this in
all humility and sincerity; but what I do know full well is
that human nature is never to be trusted with autocratic
power, and least of all in matters that concern the life to
come. The first founder of a sect may be sincere, though
heated about the head, but they who follow, who find the
power established, the believers pliant and fearful, are as sure
to make a mundane use of the sceptre which has fallen into
their hands as that night follows to day. Joe Smith was
partly cracked; Brigham Young’s skull is well closed, and lets
out no light to his followers. Let any one read the Sermon on
the Mount, and then the decree establishing the immaculate
conception or the papal infallibility, and then ponder how a
pure spiritual teaching may take the form of a ridiculous but
dangerous tyranny by being embodied into a Church. If a
man experiences “ internal respiration ” (and I neither deny
the possibility nor, supposing it to exist, the probable
comfort of such a state), let him be thankful, but let him
not thereon build a platform from whence to hurl denun¬
ciation on those who are inquiring into phenomena which,
at all events, lead to a belief in the possibility of such
respiration by establishing the direct communion of the
disembodied spirit world with the embodied spirit world;
still less should he place himself at the head of a sect
and preach intolerance of all others who are not yet, at all
events, organised into a sect. Your editorial remarks on the
probable influence of evil spirits on the characters of mediums
are much more to the useful point than Mr. Harris’s denuncia¬
tions of all spiritual manifestations, since they call attention
to the necessity for placing mediums in conditions with which
such spirits )do not Sympathise. Long ago in your pages I
ventured the opinion that circles should be formed of persons
having a serious mind to inquire and deduce, and not merely
bent on purposes of wonder-seeking curiosity. I also anim¬
adverted on the idle and silly conversations which passed
between the circle and the spirit. I take, this opportunity of
doing so again, and I maintain that we shall never get any¬
thing worth knowing or preserving from the other life, so long
as puerile jokes and frothy wit form the staple of the conver¬
sation between the sitters and the manifestors. This of course
rests with the sitters; they choose the nonsense, and nonsensical
spirits respond ; let them choose the wise and sincere inquiry
of their minds, they will get the wiser and more instructive
response. It is very likely that, after all, the knowledge which
manifesting spirits can impart will ever be imperfect, and more
or less commonplace; that for the higher teachings the voli¬
tion of our thoughts directed towards higher subjects can
alone suffice, and that by the continued exercise of such
volition the ‘‘internal respiration” of Mr. Harris (which I
suppose implies the communion with the highest spirits) may
be attained. Still, that is no reason why it is desirable that the
inquiry of all Spiritualists should be denounced as marking
“ the barbaric era of religious sentiment; ” still less is it a
reason that we should adopt Mr. Harris as a prophet and high
priest, and his opinions as infallible dogmatic truth. Nullius
addictus jurare in verba magistri is an excellent motto for
inquirers on any subject, most of all when religion is the
subject. Spiritualists will in all probability throw a bright
light on the thoughts of persons having the strong religious
instinct, whatever form they adhere to externally ; but if
Spiritualism itself comes to be erected into a religion, be sure it
will have the history of all other religions—be an excuse for
the assumption of worldly power—be tossed about between
hierarch and heresiaroh for the deception of the masses, and
never, never arrive at what I quite agree with Mr. Harris in
believing it is desirable to attain—“ internal respiration.”
J. M. Gully, M.D.
Orwell Lodge, Bedford Hill, Balham, S.W.
THOMAS LAKE HARRIS AND HIS NOTIONS.
Sir,—As for Harris’s judgment about Spiritualism, I do not
see why it is of much consequence one way or other. Unless
as a medium of some distinction, he has no claim to atten¬
tion ; and when he goes on to assert that what he practises
with impunity and advantage can only be practised by others
at the peril of their souls, we reply we have heard something
of the same sort from of old, and take it to be one of the
ordinary and impudent forms of priestcraft. Swedenborgians
talk the same talk. Swedenborg was a medium under the
special and exclusive patronage of the Lord, and is to be im¬
plicitly believed accordingly. Other mediums the Lord has
no dealings with, Harris included: they are the victims of
devils, and all good people should avoid and distrust them.
Our shop is the Lord’s shop, and you are in a bad way if you
take your custom elsewhere. Such talk is very pitiful, and
unworthy of argument: we can only listen and laugh. That
Spiritualism, in common with all that is good and powerful,
has its dangers and liabilities to abuse is freely conceded; but
that we are to escape from such perils by surrendering our¬
selves to either Harris or Swedenborg is a phantasy that
cannot exist in a rational atmosphere. St. Munoo.
July 2, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
CLIFFORD ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—There is a review by Professor Clifford of The Un¬
seen Universe in the Fortnightly Review for June, in which
occur the following remarks on Spiritualism, so spicy and so
absurd that I should be sorry if your readers should miss the
entertainment. He writes:—
The other form of the traditional conception (of the future
life) is one which the lower races of men have always taught
to their conquerors, as vermin are left in a house by the
ejected tenant. Witches or wizards, whole impostors and half
dupes, support a wretched and criminal existence by preying
upon the credulity of simple creatures who would have know¬
ledge and speech of the dead. To these, frightened or cajoled,
they show such lying and pitiful wonders as the sun is
ashamed to see. The Spiritualism of our day is a mere sur¬
vival of, or relapse into, the low cunning of savage times,
none the less disgraceful to our generation because it may
seem pardonable in more bestial and less human types. The
coarse and clumsy audacities of women, who must needs be in
some wise talked about, are backed by the trickery of keener-
witted knaves, clever enough to hunt out and mimic the feats
of older fire-eaters and floaters, and thereby to deceive even
some of those who have lived so long in the pure air of honest
and patient research that they cannot believe in fraud so vile
and detestable. If, as the tricksters phrase it, ‘ the phenomena
are sometimes real,’ there yet remains the mass of vulgar
cheatery which is used to supplement * the phenomena ; ’ and
at the bidding of such vulgar cheats must the poor dead play
the fool to purblind believers with no more of manly and
straightforward thought in them than there is in their musical
boxes and guitars,
“ From the close and foul air of these modern miracles the
healthy stomach of our authors (of The Unseen Universe')
naturally revolts, and they do not ‘ hesitate to choose between
the two alternative explanations, and to regard these pretended
manifestations as having no objective reality.’ But it must be
remembered that the alleged possibilities which they have
opened up will not be used only in the way which they them¬
selves could wish. Put ever so innocent a bread-knife into the
hands of a maniac or murderer, and it will be not a whit less
dangerous because it was never intended to cut flesh. It can¬
not be doubted that the ‘ spiritual body ’ of this book will be
used to support a belief that the dead are subject either to the
shame and suffering of a Christian heaven and hell, or to the
degrading service of a modern witch.
“ From each of these unspeakable profanities let us hope
and endeavour that the memories of great and worthy, men
may be finally relieved, and that the grey mantle of oblivion
may cover the eternal shame of such as could fable so im¬
piously about the holy ones who have lived.”
Moody and Sankey and Talmage of New York have recently
been cursing Spiritualism, and here is Clifford, an avowed
and rabid unbeliever, indulging in language which might have
proceeded from these fiery revivalists. Extremes meet. As
for Clifford, one need only say, ” He shuts his eyes and pro¬
phesies.” He chooses to deny the survival of man beyond the
grave, and stamps, scolds, and slanders those who adduce evi¬
dence to the contrary. As for us Spiritualists, we may con¬
gratulate ourselves on the extent of the influence that evokes
such vituperation. It is not for nothing that we are so abused.
Wm. White.
30, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,-“On Sunday the 20th inst. the usual quarterly tea¬
meeting was held at Mr. Cogman’s Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road,
Mile-end, and was comparatively a success, the place being
comfortably filled. Many of Mr. Cogman’s old friends
gathered round him to sympathise with him in the good work
he is doing at the East-end of London. After tea there was, as
usual, much speech-making. Mr. Jennison occupied the chair.
Mr. Bullock gave an interesting account of the conversion of a
Christianised Jew to Spiritualism ; the convert discovered the
truth at his own home, and obtained manifestations at his first
sitting. Mr. Blunderfield said that he had left a meeting that
evening and brought his family to spend the rest of the time
with Mr. Oogman. Mr. Blunderfield gave an interesting account
of the work he was doing, and in the course of his remarks in¬
troduced a gentleman who acted as chairman at his meetings.
This gentleman, whose name did not transpire, said he had
been for some years a deacon of a Christian place of worship,
also a superintendent of a Sunday School; he used while he
was orthodox to give a tenth of his income in support of the
place he attended, and since he had been a Spiritualist he had
done the same on behalf of Spiritualism. Miss Young was
entranced, and gave a nice address. Other speakers followed,
and at ten o’clock one of the most delightful and harmonious
meetings it has been my lot to attend came to a close.
Pstcho.
DANGER FROM WITHIN IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—A propos to the above, occurs the follow ng passage in
the first article of the Revue Spirits for May :—
“Allan Kardec always disapproved of paid mediumship:
that which is given gratuitously, said he, ought to be yielded
in the same way. We believed that in the Revue Spirite for
some time we might deviate from this wise reserve: ex¬
perience, sad and necessary experience, brings us roughly back
to it; it is a lesson by which we ought all to profit.”
Paid mediumship is at the bottom of most of the dangers
alluded to in the leading article of The Spiritualist No. 148, of
June 25th. Until the last two years or so, it was discounte¬
nanced in France. Verbum Sap.
June 27th, 1875.
' [Some of the very worst doings have not arisen from paid mediumship,
but from untruths invented by mediums jealous of each other.—Ed.]
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES.
Sir,—I should like to be permitted to add a few words in
your columns to the testimony of Mr. Coleman respecting
“Mrs. Tappan’s lectures.” I regard them, on the whole, as
very remarkable productions. At the same time I am not
surprised to hear that others question the value of some of
them; but to do so reasonably requires the possession of a
high order of intelligence, for it is not an easy matter to de¬
termine, without special experience, what is sound and what
is not. Besides, too much is expected of inspirational speakers;
nothing short of infallibility is demanded—faultless orations,
as if the spring whence they flowed were perfection itself.
We are told that their feebleness in physics is plain. This
may be so. Perhaps it happens that, as the materialist cannot
comprehend the Spiritualist, so a spirit may be deficient in
physical knowledge. Mere locality does not bestow power; the
inhabitant of another world need be no more learned than one
in this.
I may be a poor judge of these things, but I am prepared
to say that I have been delighted and refreshed by many
spiritual truths uttered by Mrs. Tappan, who I consider a very
remarkable personage. Alex. Calder.
1, Hereford Square, South Kensington, S.W,
June 28th, 1875.
Sir,—Your readers will doubtless be glad to hear that Mrs.
Tappan’s third visit to Liverpool was a complete success. On
Saturday evening 12th inst., at 8 o’clock, the Concert Hall in
Lord Nelson-street was crowded with an intelligent and
enthusiastic audience, who gave the fair medium a very cordial
reception—evidently Mrs. Tappan had left a very favourable
impression, on the occasion of her former visits here, on the
minds of those who were fortunate enough to be present at her
orations. On Monday evening the 14th the hall was again
crowded, and the closest attention given to the address.
The subject of the addresses were respectively “ Spiritualism
versus Science ” and “ Social states in spirit life.” Suffice it to
say that the orations were worthy of the spirits who inspired
them and the medium through whom they found utterance.
Surely it is impossible to estimate fully the value of this
lady’s mediumship, and I would here venture to say that the
greatest care should be exercised by the friends who have the
pleasure of close association with Mrs. Tappan, to surround her
with influences which will be conducive to her equanimity of
mind, and a sympathy that can be felt. Indeed these condi¬
tions are necessary in the case of all mediums, but especially
those who are inspirational, whose minds are like a placid
lake—easily ruffled.
Mrs. Tappan has kindly promised us another visit in
September, and we hope then to introduce her to Southport,
where she would no doubt be warmly received. In conclusion,
permit me to say that the chair was occupied on both
occasions by Dr. W. Hitchman with his usual tact and ability.
I enclose the utterances of some of our local papers.
Ifairfleld, Liverpool. J, LAMONT.
[Mrs. Tappau informs us that since she left Liverpool her lectures have
been well received in Manchester.—Ed.]
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1875,
THE IMPRISONMENT OP SPIRITUALISTS AT PARIS.
Sir,—On reading'to-day, in the Spiritualist of this date,
the account so far published of the late trial at Paris, and its
results in reference to those two ardent Spiritualists, M.
Leymarie and Mr. Firman, who have been sentenced respec¬
tively to twelve and six months’ imprisonment, though
obviously quite innocent of any mala Jides in the matter of
Buguet’s conjuring, I am much impressed to suggest through
your widely circulating columns that, particularly with respect
to Firman, in the first place, measures should at once be taken
to have an urgent requisition made in the proper quarter for
commutation of his sentence, on the following grounds:—
Your excellent correspondent, Mr. O’Sullivan, having shown
that Firman’s imprisonment of six months instead of twelve
has been in all probability due to the fact that his counsel,
having declined to plead in his favour the genuineness of his
mediumship, still showed, as a fact, that he had actually re¬
fused in the noblest manner to avail himself of the generous
offer of his securities, that he should escape from “ durance
vile” by their voluntary forfeiture of their large recogni¬
sances, it must be evident that to press a reconsideration of
the latter point upon the authorities ought to be attended with
good results. For it is evident also that the judges, having
had their decision pre-arranged, and not finding it convenient
to alter it, might still, without derogating from their pecu¬
liarly assumed dignity, listen to an appeal respectfully made
for mitigation of sentence. If they have already mitigated
Mr. Firman’s sentence, as is rationally inferred by Mr.
O’Sullivan, they may consistently follow whatever principle
in their own minds they have formed, and continue
the process without entailing any loss of assumed dignity.
The first object is to free the unjustly imprisoned ; afterwards
a ” hue and cry ” may safely be raised against the stupidity,
if not the iniquity, of the whole proceeding,
fi For Monsieur Leymarie of course the plea to be urged is the
force of the letters acquitting him of being partecips criminis,
written by the real culprit, Buguet. But I urge attention to
Firman’s case first, because his is free from those points in¬
volving lack of activity in analysing the reports Leymarie
heard of Buguet’s tricks—reports which no doubt he discredited,
but regarding which, if he had used due diligence, Buguet
would probably have been exposed by the Paris Spiritualists
instead of by the Paris police.
There is a “ happy medium ” to be found between indulging
in inveterate suspicion of all public and paid mediums, and
closing the ear to every warning voice. C.
London, June 25th, 1875.
I) BEAMS.
Sir,—Allow me to contribute my quota of experience on
a point raised by Serjeant Oox and taken up by your corre¬
spondent E. L. G.
I lay dreaming one morning, and imagined that a book was
open before me. The pages, I remember, were adorned with a
curious border and the margins were very broad. On the two
open pages was a pathetic ballad in the old English style,
which I read with great delight. Strange to say, not only was
I conscious that I was dreaming, but I reasoned with myself
thus, “ Since I am dreaming, and this ballad is thus present
to my mind, I must be the author of it.” Accordingly I deter¬
mined to get it by heart, in order to show my waking self what
a genius I was in my sleep. On waking I remembered the first
few lines. They were utter gibberish. The ideas which had
imposed themselves on my sleeping consciousness had turned,
like fairy gold, to dross, the moment use was sought to be
made of them. St. George Stock.
Oxford, June 26th.
The Psychological Society.—In the course of a review
of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s pamphlet on “ The Province of Psycho¬
logy,” the Peterborough Advertiser of last Saturday says:—
“ The essay before us avoids the perplexing phases of ‘ Spirit¬
ualism,’ and deals chiefly with the orthodox phenomena of
what Serjeant Cox terms ‘Life—Mind—Soul;’ or, ‘The
Investigation of the Forces, organic and intelligent, that move
and direct the Material Mechanism of Man.’ Upon these and
cognate subjects the learned author is a safe guide. Hence, in
dealing with Spiritualism he betrays the direct antithesis of
emotional enthusiasm; and those mediums whose want of
character, and special love of pounds, shillings, and pence,
lead them to play the trickster, find in Serjeant Cox a justifi¬
ably severe critic. We wish all Spiritualist investigators were
equally acute, cautious, and coldly scientific as Serjeant Cox;
for if, despite the simulated so-called ‘ phenomena ’ of many
seances where mediumship has grown into a profession, there
should be genuine traces of hitherto unknown forces or laws
of being, the facts thus honestly and patiently witnessed
would influence, perchance, the current of modern opinion,
and possibly help to solve many of the problems of life and
destiny. Serjeant Cox, and the new Psychological Society of
which he is the president, here approach the great questions of
‘ soul ’ phenomena independently of mediums ; albeit that he
does not, in the least, start back from the strange experience
of the position he has all along occupied in his researches into
the abnormal mysteries of Spiritualism. Bather does he
make the study of psychology an intellectual, half moral
speculation, dealing with facts of the ‘ living spirit in the
flesh ’ according to its observed surprises and eccentricities.
The purely scientific accumulation of facts only, seems to be
the motto of the new society; but it differs from the positivism
of Comte, of Stuart Mill, and of Professor Tyndall, in so far
as it recognises, as a foundation of experiment, the extra¬
natural or soul-power in man. Thus, all the phenomenal
results of memory, entrancements, sleep-walking, dreams, and
similar occult events, are made to contribute to the interesting,
sometimes wonderful, information that comes within the pro¬
vince of psychology. No doubt the platform of the society
may appear too broad and independent for the various schools
of stereotyped theology; but to most persons of culture, fond
of earnest speculation, it will prove a great aid to the higher
philosophy of life and religion.”
Me. and Mbs. Fay have returned to the United States.
M. Aksakof is at Moscow, and is about to present the
whole series of his valuable works on Spiritualism to the
Library of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Spieitualish in Manchesteb.—Probably in no large
town in the kingdom has Spiritualism so few adherents as in
busy, money-making Manchester; but as its inhabitants are
of a practical turn of mind, the visit of a good test medium
like Mrs. Fay to give public seances there for two or three weeks
would have been of great use. A gentleman writing from
Manchester says : “ The opposition of honest sceptics is just
and desirable to guarantee valuable conclusions, but my mind
in now filled with the striking evidence of fiendish aversion
to Spiritualism. Mankind finds comfort inf the belief that
death concludes existence. Spiritualism upsets the moral code
consequently adopted, and turns into wickedness what seemed
respectable. The idea of closing the book for ever at death is
too sweet a consolation to be given up in sight of certain little
defects in the course of life adopted. Scepticism or enmity is
a grand theme for reflection. Let us, therefore, continue to
record facts spiritual side by side with facts material, and let
a new philosophy grow out of them.”
Swedenboegian Books.—The prejudice in this material¬
istic age against any practical proof of a life beyond the grave
causes some libraries to refuse to accept even Swedenborgian
books. The last report of the Swedenborg Society contains
the following passages: Never before has the spirit of in¬
quiry, as regards what Swedenborg has written, been so widely
evoked, or so fully satisfied. The presentation and sale of
10,059 volumes substantiate these assertions. The British
Museum has received 199 volumes, and the Free Libraries of
Manchester and its six branches, Birmingham and its four
branches, Birkenhead, Cambridge, Coventry, Heywood, Leeds,
Nottingham, Ramsbottom, Royston, South Shields, Sheffield,
Sunderland, and Wolverhampton, have received 923 volumes.
The City of London College, the Free Library at Notting-hill,
London, and the Quebec Institute, Lower Seymour-street,
London, have also received grants, besides many others which
our space will not permit us to enumerate. The Free Libra¬
ries at Hereford and Leamington, and the Young Men’s
Christian Association, London, appear to have refused the
committee’s offers.
ANSWEBS TO COBEESPONDENTS.
Several letters are kept over till next week for want of space.
M.—The Medium refuses to print advertisements for us; payment
for the advertisements has always been tendered at the time.
ItS. BURKE, having herself been the subject of a
marvellous Cure of. Cancerous Tumour (see Medium, Sept. 12t
1874) through the healing power of Spirits, is desired by the doctors in the
spirit-world who undertook her cure publicly to announce that they have,
bestowed upon her also the “gift of healing, to be used exclusively for the
incidental or accidental diseases of women. Mrs. Burke will be at home
from 10 to 1 on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, when she will diag¬
nose and prescribe for such cases as she is impressed to undertake.—.
Address, 141, Oornwall-road, Westbourne-park, London.
July 2, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairn s-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, B etch worth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chadwick, Sheldon, 54, Mortimer-road, Downham-road, Kingsland, E.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Yienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N, Fabyan, 30, Oampden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-piace, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilber force-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J,, Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Oamden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadweli, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., L The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed RasMm, Khande Rassim Pacha, k Bahdje' Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Qo., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 155, West Brookline-street Boston, U.S.A,
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany,
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes jSargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia', U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Olinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Allied Society.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
'R. W. Q-. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
J
V. MANSFIELD,
Letters, at 361, Sixth Av.,
TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register tour Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon [as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course i—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.  
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
►O 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont--
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily! from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
FM. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittinsr. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
T~he progressive Spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To beh ad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd al 1 Australian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 86, Rue de la Cathddrale, Likge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal detudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris, Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte ;James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Gr,attan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Pox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—■
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by-detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritifalist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements lie made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting be'gins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds' are produced freely, to avoid
-confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
July 2, 1875.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The (Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
jears, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 650 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experience* of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest ; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory Informa¬
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings- in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fae~
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W ; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper, entitled
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OP THE
• HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
«* tenth state.
- Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
,, 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL,
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER
who has kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HAT 1 ER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
lias a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
wnibrellas.
r HO THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
J- or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at the Crystal Palace School of Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood.
rflHE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI-
JL TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.r
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridob & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.O.
