AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[KEGISTEKED POE TRANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 80.—(Vol. IV.—No. 10.)
LONDON: MARCH 6, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
OTontenta.
National Organisation 
The Eoyal Institution...   
The Council of the National Association
The Spiritual Sunday Meetings  
Spiritualism in Australia 
A Strange Story ...    
Hauntings hy a Murderer and his Victim
The Prospectus of the National Association.,
The Address to Judge Edmonds  
The Clairvoyance of the Blind 
What Work should a National Organisation Undertake ?
The National Association of Spiritualists ...  
Correspondence—Misstatements Corrected; Where the Carcase is,
&o., &c.; Sorrow for the Departed; A Seance at Birmingham;
The Eeception of Netv Truths     ...
Lunacy Law Eeform ...    ...  
Gerald Massey and his Dog “Pip”...        
Paragraphs—Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 118; Liverpool
Psychological Society   ... ... .; 
109
110
111
112
112
113
113
114
114
115
115
118
119
120
120
119
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cioth 2s. 6d.
INTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
H
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. .
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD AEE STILL ALIVE,
and cain communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
 Loudon : Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oeeice-Beaeees eoe 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton,
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale,
Mr. E, Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T, B. Griffin.
Mr. Kiece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont,
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the edueation of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874,
IVTRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
i-fJL INSPIEATIONAL DISCOUESES.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, CLEVELAND-STEEET, OXFOED-STEEET.
Committee:—
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 130, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster1 Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, the above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lectures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6,15 p.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
In order to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Beserved seats 2s. and Is. each.
Body of the Hall free.
PLANCHETTE.—ENDLESS 'AMUSEMENT for Old
and Young. Physical science is, as yet, baffled by the mysterious
performances of this little instrument. It writes intelligent answers to
questions which the operators do not hear. In polished mahogany, whole¬
sale and retail from Sturmbey and Co., Constitution-hill, Birmingham.
Post free, 51 stamps.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
HE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL-
ISTS.—Sunday Evenin& Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Eules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
E. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, (fee., effected. Advances made thereon.
Offloe hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FEANCIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOUESES at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’&lock every Sunday evening till April 5th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Tickets can be had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 16, Southampton-row, Holborn. Eeseryed seats 2s
and Is. each. Body of the hall free,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 6, 1874.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
6. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
If! The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Beflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWABD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
CONTBNTS.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IK TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. O. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Buie IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PBESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Oox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli--
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Oox’s work.is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co,, Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “what am i p”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWABD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the IntelligentMotive-Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.)
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Jnhanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
XZ. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Unepn-
. sciousness.
VOL. I. MAY BE
London: Longman &
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Beading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psvchic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
AD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To'>be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. B. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous'
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
A ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF BIRDS AND
Jfk- ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franki.in, 106, Suf-
folk-street. Birmingham. .  
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &o., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Price 2s. 6d.
aLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with thirgs material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*#* A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
sty 3
Styp
(T?
gjAs gJAs
il$ yrxrgrm t\ imit xt|
VOjLUjVtE FOUR. JHUJVIBEF( TEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 6th, 1874.
Cjre SpinLalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOU ADYERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions]:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist''' in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
Sah Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis,—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street..
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street,
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIE'TJ.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—A, Fitzroy-square, W,
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
The arguments that have been brought by a few
private individuals against the principle of national
organisation among Spiritualists, need not have been
written had they previously taken the pains to acquaint
themselves with the preliminary steps which were
taken in founding the British National Association of
Spiritualists. It has all along been clearly understood
that the governing officers are to be elected by ballot,
and that the Association is formed for purely business
purposes, with no right or power to interfere with
theological matters; The undesirability of founding a
fresh ecclesiastical power was clearly seen by the pro¬
moters of this undertaking, and the paper read at
Liverpool, suggesting national organisation, pointed
out this danger before a single resolution on the sub¬
ject had been passed. Hence, as the Association is
founded upon principles purposely framed to prevent
its attempting to interfere with liberty of conscience,
the arguments brought against it on this head are
worthless. The danger had been fully provided against
before the letters of the objectors were written, and
had those dissentients acquainted themselves with what
had been done, a great deal of waste of argument, of
paper, and of printing ink might have been saved.
Perhaps it is hardly accurate to say “ waste of argu¬
ment,” for no harm has been done by fully considering
this special danger connected with national organisation.
In reality the objections of the objectors tell forcibly
against themselves, because without organisation and
elected officers, instances have already occurred of
private individuals attempting to grasp authority to
which they have no right, and have burlesqued the
whole movement in the eyes of the public. - Of course
all such persons who have private aims to serve, will
exert the most strenuous opposition to vote by ballot,
to properly elected representatives, or to any movement
which tends to give Spiritualists the power of managing
their own affairs, of expending their own funds, and of
being favoured with regular and business-like balance
sheets.
Another argument which has been advanced against
national organisation is that Spiritualism is such a
God-given and sacred thing, and has spread all over the
civilised and uncivilised worlds with such velocity that
it is wicked to attempt to interfere with it by the for¬
mation of the National Association. . If it be wicked
thus to desecrate it by attempts to'aid it on the part of
man, all those who have written books on the subject,
who have had anything to do with spiritual periodicals,
who have advanced it by public speaking, or in the
home circle, must be great sinners, and not the least
among these must be some of the objectors themselves.
Another science—photography—has spread all over the
world with the same velocity as Spiritualism, but it is
not on record that the Photographic Society has done
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 6, 1874.
any harm to the “ divine truths ” of photography. We
hold that everything on the face of the earth is divine,
like Him who made it, and that theologians mislead the
unthinking when they talk of matter as if it were in¬
herently despicable and bad. Perhaps some of the
persons who in an unthankful manner preach against
their u vile bodies” were to attend a course of lectures
by Professor Michael Poster, or Dr. Rutherford, and
learn something about the wonders of the body,
of the intelligence displayed in the formation and
functions of its various parts, of the beauty of the
adaptation of its organs as means to ends, knowledge
might gradually dawn upon their minds, and a sense of
shame creep over their consciences at having publicly
abused that of which they know nothing. It may be
that spirit cannot exist disassociated from what we call
matter; very possibly matter is but the phenomenal
manifestation of spirit, or it may be that matter is as
essential to the development of the human spirit, as the
root of the rose-tree is to the development of the rose,
and shall the flower say to its root, “ Thou art vile, I
have no need of thee ? ”
But it is unnecessary to pursue this branch of the
subject further, the common sense of Spiritualists at
large having already decided the point by the unani¬
mous vote in favour of national organisation, given at
Liverpool by the official representatives of all the chief
societies of Spiritualists in the United Kingdom, and
by the representatives of Spiritualists residing in some
forty or fifty of the chief towns and cities in this
country. Moreover, the National Association is wanted
by a large number of Spiritualists in London and the
provinces, who wish to work together in a friendly way
for the good of the cause, and to avoid dissension so
far as human nature with all its frailties will permit
united action. At present London Spiritualists are not
able to meet in this way, simply from the absence of
organisation, and when any few disinterested persons
meet together and work arduously for the good of the
cause, a great deal of public abuse is showered upon
their heads, as Mrs. Tappan’s committee can testify.
Spiritualists in the provinces often ask why London
Spiritualists do not work together like those in country
towns, but they should remember that when disin¬
terested people band together in a provincial town to
advance the interests of the movement, they are not
instantly abused in print as they are in London; in
short, the present National Association is exactly what
is wanted by those Spiritualists who wish to act
together in brotherly love, who desire elected instead of
self-appointed officers to carry on much of the business
of the movement, and to administer its funds with
economy. As we have several times pointed out, an ex¬
penditure of less than <£200 a year would have secured
regular meetings on Sunday evenings in several
different parts of London, and had this been done three
years ago by any independent disinterested organisa¬
tion, it would have given a great impetus to the pro¬
gress of the movement. Disinterested workers are
never afraid to subject their claims to election by
ballot, since those who are believed by Spiritualists to
do most good for the movement will then find them¬
selves in their proper places. In this respect the
National Association differs altogether in constitution
from an ecclesiastical power, for can any of the five or
six gentlemen who are not friendly to it, bring forward
any instance where any ecclesiastical authorities have
submitted their claims to vote by ballot ?
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
HEBEDITASY CHARACTERISTICS.
Last Friday night Mr. Francis Galton, F.R.S., pre¬
sident of the Psychological Committee of the Anthropo¬
logical Institute, lectured at the Royal Institution be¬
fore a large and brilliant audience, upon “ Men of
Science, their Nature and Nurture.”
Mr. Galton said that he had sent out a considerable
number of circulars to leading men of science, asking
them for information about themselves, and about their
fathers and mothers, their grandfathers and grand¬
mothers, in order that he might glean some statistical
information relating to mental, bodily, and hereditary
characteristics. A large proportion of the gentlemen
who had been written to had kindly sent answers, and
the information thus given was kept by him in perfect
confidence. One hundred and eighty members of the
Royal Society had answered his questions, and half of
those who replied were between the ages of fifty and
sixty-five. Altogether there were about three hundred
very prominent scientific men in this country, but if
those of lesser eminence were included, there was about
one scientific man to every six thousand of the popula¬
tion.
Some of the first results of his inquiries are contained
in the following table:—
Cases in which the Parents possessed the Characteristics
in a high degree.
Characteristic,
55
5 fl
o g
a°
Per 10 Cases.
Parental
Non-
Parental
Energy of Body  
Energy of Mind  
Good Health  .
Bad Health  
Independence of Character.
Practical Business Habits .
Steadiness or Earnestness .
Religious Bias  ... .
Influencing Education or
Taste 
62
61
43
29
50
39.
24
16
Proportionate Influence (say)
12
22
29
f 1
5
4
0
2
. 3
This table shows that, roughly speaking, the in¬
fluence of the father upon the offspring is three times
greater than that of the mother.
The answers that had been sent to him proved very
conspicuously that leading scientific men had as a
general rule a great deal of bodily and mental energy ;
for instance, Sir Roderick Murchison was a hard rider
and fox-hunter in his youth, and few men could equal
him as a walker. Others were great at rowing and
other manual exercises, whilst not a few could carry on
long continued mental work without feeling fatigued.
The average circumference of the heads of English gen¬
tlemen was from 22J to 22£ inches, but the average
circumference of the heads of scientific men was larger;
still he had discovered that as regards the latter there was
more energy among the small headed than among the
large headed men ; in truth, the small headed men came
out very creditably in .the matter so far as their work
was concerned. One scientific man—a fellow of the
Royal Society—had a head 25 inches in circumference;
he knew this because he had seen a special block on
which his hat was made, and had measured it.*
* An unfortunate soientiflo gentleman—probably the one meant by Mr.
Galton, for he had his hat made upon a special block—lost his hat when the
cloak room arrangements broke down at the soiree of the British Associa¬
tion at Norwich, some years ago; the result was that he had to wear a cap,
and the gentleman to whom the large hat was given in error, must either have
been extinguished by it or submitted to the necessity of buying himself a
new one,—Ed.
March 6, 1874. THE gPUMHALIST. Ill
Another fact which came out very strongly as the re¬
sult of his inquiries was the hereditary character of
health, for in nearly all cases in which the son suffered
from any bodily ailment, one of the parents had been
afflicted with the same disease. He thought that a truth
like this ought to take great hold of the public mind,
and should be an important matter for consideration in
questions of marriage.
An independent tone prevailed in the homes of
scientific men, among whom there was the greatest
difference of religious opinion. Faraday was a San-
dimanian, Dalton and Young were Quakers, and what¬
ever the religious or irreligious opinions of men of
science they never attempted to hide them; in short,
one of the strongest and most marked characteristics of
men of science was independence of character: Inborn
innate tastes were at the root of their lives, and had
more to do with their searching out the truths of nature
than any bias given to them by education or external
conditions. They were generally persons whose affec¬
tions were narrowed to a small circle, and as a rule
they felt great contempt for politics. In one family
where the same mental characteristics had been mani¬
fested in the children through several generations, it
had been noticed that the fathers had always had a
strong affection for their children. Although the in¬
fluence of the father was three times greater than that
of the mother ’upon the characteristics of scientific men,
of course he didj not know but that it might be different
in the case of parents whose children had no taste
for scientific pursuits. Men of science were charac¬
terised by very little passion and much reason, conse¬
quently the minds of women and of scientific men were
to a large extent in opposition to each other; the ten¬
dency of female influence was to draw men away from
scientific pursuits.
Among the men of science who had written to him
about their early education, many spoke of the time
during which they had been forced to learn dead
languages at school, as a blank dreary waste, which was
painful to them, and resulted in no benefit in after¬
life ; none of them who had had a purely classical edu¬
cation were satisfied with it, but they held the opinion
that the old-fashioned system of education tended to
ruin intelligent boys to a large extent, and to make
them always appeal to authority rather than to fact or
to common-sense. Some of his correspondents com¬
plained that they had not been allowed to follow their
natural bent when young. They all of them wished
that they had been taught mathematics thoroughly, also
the practical applications of mathematics. They wished
that they had been taught logic, and had been brought up
to observation and experiment in at least one branch of
science. Some of them wished that practical handi¬
work of some kind had been thoroughly well taught
to them in youth. In the younger days of many per¬
sons now living, no encouragement of any kind was
given to science; no professorships worth anything
were given to it, neither had it any bishoprics or wealthy
livings in perspective. He hoped that the time would
come when there would be a kind of scientific priest¬
hood in the nation, watching over the health and wealth
of the people.
Tbteee is some probability that the price of The Spiri¬
tualist will be reduced to twopence within a month or two.
The Lunacy Law Reform Association is agitating to
obtain a Parliamentary commission to inquire into the whole
question of the incarceration and treatment of lunatics.
THE COUNCIL OE THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The president and vice-presidents of the National
Association of Spiritualists have not yet been appointed,
and between twenty and thirty additional members of
the Council have yet to be elected. The following is a
list of the present members of the Council:—
Council.
W. N. Armfleld, Eden-villa, Cairn’s-rdad, New Wands¬
worth, S.W.
W. E. Bassett, 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Edward T. Bennett, The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
James Brown, Glasgow.
Alexander Calder, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
G. B. Clark, M.D., 5, Blackwood-crescent, Newington, Edin¬
burgh.
Keningale Cook, B.A., 3, Norman-cottages, Highgate.
Newton Crosland, Blackheath.
Mrs. Newton Crosland, Blackheath.
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West
Kensington-park, W.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
George Dawson, 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Joseph Dinsdale, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Thomas Everitt, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Mrs. M. A. Everitt, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Mid¬
dlesex, N.W.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughborough-road North, Brix-
ton, S.W.
Joseph Freeman, 130, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
J. M. Gully, M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, S.W.
R. Harper, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.C.
J. Thornton Hoskins, M.A., Reform Club, S.W., and 5, Con-
naught-square, W.
H. D. Jencken, M.R.I,, Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ing, E.C,
Miss Emily Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
John Lament, London-road, Liverpool.
C. Mansell Lewis, United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Alfred E. Lovell, 6, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
T. Herbert Noyes, jun., B.A., United University Club, S.W,
C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., 14, Burnley-road; Stockwell, S.W.
E. Dawson Rogers, 29, Dalzell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
George Sexton, M.D., LL.D., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S.E.
J. Shepherd, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Rev. W. F. Short, Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.
G. F. Snelling, 24, Sylvan-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., Douglas-house, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Mrs. Stanhope T. Speer, Douglas-house, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
A. C. Swinton, Hill-house, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
J. Traill Taylor, Nithsdale-villa, Wood Green.
Morell Theobald, 30, Mark-lane, E.G.
R. M. Theobald, M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
C. West, 55, Holloway-road, N.
D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club,
Pall Mall, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. Fabyan Daw, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
M. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Counsellor, Nevsky
Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, U.S., America, jj
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, U.S., America.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Ry., Bengal.
O. Constant, Esq., Smyrna.
Pearycband Mittra, Esq., 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Most of tbe corresponding members have not yet been
appointed, and their number will soon be very largely
increased.
The Honorary Secretaries are Mr. Joy, who attends
to the home correspondence, and Miss E, Kislingbury,
ii2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 6, 18?4.
of 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, S.W., who being
an accomplished linguist, will attend to the foreign cor¬
respondence. The acting secretary is Mr. T. Blyton, of
74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, E.
THE SPIRITUAL SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Last Sunday evening Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan lectured, as
usual, at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Portland-road,
under the presidency of Mr. Thomas Slater. After the sing¬
ing of a hymn and the reading of a chapter from the Bible,
Mrs. Tappan delivered an address in the trance state, in
the course of which she said that Spiritualism was an angelic
revelation, which would be welcomed byj the truly religious
man, however much it might be disliked by the theologian ;
its phenomena would be useful to the doubter, to prove to
him the reality of spirit life. She said that the literature and
art of the present generation teemed with ideas of a spirit-
world being close about us; for instance, how often in pic¬
tures angels were seen floating above those in trouble ; and
how frequently in literary fictions the turning point of a
novel or of a drama rested upon some supernatural visitation.
In the midst of all these influences, the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism were developed ; children had begun to see
visions, and maidens to dream dreams ; men had begun to
prophecy and to heal the sick; voices were abroad in the
world which betokened that the atmosphere was alive with
spiritual intelligence. All of these things tended to prove
that the world was ready for the advent of Spiritualism,
which met a want previously unsupplied. Spiritualism would
prove to the materialist the existence of that unseen God
which he did not believe in, and demonstrate that beyond
the grave there was a region of life—an aggressive life,
which would not let him rest until he recognised the reality
of angel messengers. He would find that there was no space
not pregnant with thought, and that the very atoms of matter
were glowing with the perfections of the Divine Mind.
Spiritualism would write upon the temples of materialism—
“ Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin!”
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The Australian spiritual periodicals received by last
week’s mail, display considerable excitement because of
some attacks upon Spiritualism in the daily papers,
caused by alleged spiritual communications, coming
from the spirit of a gentleman who was afterwards
discovered to be alive and well in the body, and not
dead. The information given about the facts of the
case is very meagre, since the editors confine their
efforts more to answering the attacks of outsiders, than
to stating the actual circumstances. The Harbinger of
Light of January 1st, says :—
A few weeks ago the attention of the Melbourne public was
ostentatiously drawn by the daily papers to what was con¬
sidered proof positive of the failure of Spiritualism to make
good its claims to possessing means of communication with
the spirits of the departed. The addresses given through
Mrs. Raynor in the trance state at Weber’s Rooms, and
purporting to come from John Pagan, of Rochdale, will doubt¬
less still be fresh in the memory of all our readers. At the
time they were delivered they attracted a large share of public
attention from many who had hitherto kept aloof from
Spiritualism as from some unclean thing, as well as from
many who were already avowed Spiritualists. The Christian
doctrines, so-called, professed to be taught through this me¬
dium, doubtless induced some to attend who would not be seen
at the meetings of Progressive or Free-thinking Spiritualists.
But we believe that by far the greater portion of the interest
that attached to these exhibitions of mediumship, arose in
the wide-spread desire existing in almost every human heart to
see, if but faintly, into that world beyond the grave whither
we are all travelling, and in which most of us have some friends.
The result was hardly as favourable to Spiritualism as it
would have been, had the matter given through the medium
been up to the average intelligence and culture of her audi¬
tors. It was below them, and therefore the lady made but
few converts to Christian, or to any other kind of Spiritual¬
ism. Something was gained, however, in the admission of
some of our bitterest opponents, that Mrs. Raynor was
beyond doubt a medium, and as such, was an instance of
some of the “most remarkable phenomena of human con¬
sciousness.” Exactly what is meant by a medium, if it does
not mean one who serves as a means of communication be¬
tween this world and the world of spirits, we cannot imagine.
To the apprehension of our antagonists, however, quite a
diflEerent aspect has been put on all that was then made
manifest, by the simple fact that John Pagan, the supposed
communicating spirit, has since been ascertained to be alive,
in the flesh, in England. Really, it does not alter the matter
much. Mrs. Raynor’s mediumship is as certain as ever it was,
and worth as much as ever it was. Perhaps its value was
overrated by some, at the time she was brought so much into
notice; almost certainly it is now, by many, underrated. The
true lesson to be learnt is, that just as no blind confidence
could be placed in the name attached to the communication,
so also no blind confidence should be given to any doctrine
taught'by this or by any other spirit.
A recent number of the Manchester Critic gives more
information on the point, than any contained in the
Australian spiritual periodicals. The Critic says:—
A story comes to us from Melbourne, Victoria, which we
earnestly commend to the attention of enquirers into the
phenomena called Spiritualism. In thS above-named city,
the inhabitants of which pride themselves on their likeness to
our cousins in the United States, Spiritualism—or, as they
prefer to call it, Spiritism—has many votaries. The followers
of the new cultus are divided into several sects, which love
each other with a love like that of the rival sects of other re¬
ligions; There are the “ Progressive Spiritists,” whose chief
apostle is Mr. Tyerman, a gentleman who was formerly a
Congregationalist minister ; then, after a brief sojourn in the
Yarra Bend—the Victoria Hanwell or Colney Hatch—a lay
reader in the Church of England; and finally the expounder
of the remarkable creed for which one part of his training at
least so admirably fits him. Then there is the “ Magnetic
Brotherhood,” whose “burning and shining light”—a mag¬
netic light, in fact, of the first power—is Mr. James Smith.
This gentlemen, like his rival Mr. Tyerman, has played several
parts : he was formerly one of the editors of the leading Mel¬
bourne newspapers, and afterwards an Unitarian preacher.
He has not had the advantage of qualifying for his present
office in a lunatic asylum, but it is not impossible that he may
ere long complete his curriculum at one of those institutions.
The chief tenet of the “Brotherhood” is that the world is
about to be destroyed by a “ magnetic wave,” which will burn
up all save the enlightened Smith and his faithful believers.
The rev. gentleman does not tell us that all his relations—the
whole family of Smith—will be saved, otherwise we should
look upon it as the largest scheme of salvation yet pro¬
pounded.
Finally, there are the “ Christian Spiritists,” the chief
pillar of whose Church is a Mr. Heginbotham, a most respect¬
able haberdasher in Melbourne ; it is with the third sect that
we are at present particularly concerned.
The Society of Christian Spiritists meet every Sunday in the
assembly room of a Melbourne Hotel, to listen to the preach¬
ments of a “lady medium”—a trance medium—through
whose passive agency, we are given to understand, the spirits
of the departed instruct the congregation. There is nothing
very striking about this lady’s utterances ; in fact, were it not
announced that she is a “ Christian-spiritist-lady-trance-
medium,” an ordinary hearer might imagine himself at a
Quaker’s meeting, listening to the discourse of one of the
women Friends, who also, we believe, speak under spiritual
guidance. The same well-meaning and slightly vapid plati¬
tudes, delivered in the same somewhat hysterical manner,
form the staple of the preaching of both.
In July last this medium delivered a discourse of about the
usual calibre, which purported to be spoken under the
influence of “ John Pagan, of Rochdale, J.P., deceased.”
Now there happened to be among the congregation a certain
unbeliever who had known the aforesaid John Pagan in the
flesh ; and this scoffer next day wrote to one of the Melbourne
papers casting doubts upon the authenticity of the perform*
ance. John Pagan had not, he averred, been a Spiritist while
on earth—as alleged by the medium—and probably had much
better employment on the other side of the grave than
inspiring trance mediums to spout commonplaces. This was
a blow to the faith, but the gallant Heginbotham was
undismayed : he at once accepted the challenge and rushed
into the fray—or rather, into print. In a letter to the same
March 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
118
paper to which his adversary had written he denounced that
profane person as a perverter of the truth. He, also, had
been intimate with John Pagan .in the body, and he stated
that John, as he familiarly styled him, had manifested him¬
self to him in the spirit the night before, and forwarned him
that some sceptic was about to write to the papers the very
letter which actually appeared.
So the matter rested for a time; people admired the
dexterity with which Mr. Heginbotham had. trumped his
opponent’s ace, although some people hinted that it was
rather a pity he should not have forestalled the scoffer by
publishing the notice he had received before instead of after
the appearance of the first letter.
In December, however, a letter appeared in the Melbourne
preSs from no less a person than John Pagan, J.P., not
“ deceased,” as it would seem. That gentleman, who was,
as he informs the world, “ placed in the commission of the
peace for the county of Lancaster, at the request of the late
Richard Cobden and my world-known townsman, John
Bright,” entirely repudiates the idea of being dead at all.
The worthy J.P. certainly writes with plenty of vitality, and
we hope it may be long before he has an opportunity of
“ manifesting himself in the spirit ” at any seaitce. In his
letter, which is da^ed from the Reform Club, London, 16th
September, 1873, he says, “My grief is that any one out of
Bedlam could be found to listen to, much less to believe in,
the incoherent ravings of this so-called spiritualistic me¬
dium. ... I sincerely trust that when my old friend Mr. W.
H. Heginbotham learns that I am still in the flesh, and not in
the spirit, he will be convinced of the folly and stupidity of
his new faith, and be restored to his right mind.”
What Mr. Heginbotham says to this we have not heard.
“ What are they feared of ?—fools! od rot ’em,
Were the last words of Higginbotham,”
according to the Rejected Addresses ; and it is highly prob¬
able that that immortal man’s Victorian namesake may adopt
similar language.
There are certain mediums through whom tests of
spirit identity are never given, and it is necessary to
be cautious not to endorse the names supposed to be
given by spirits, who in many cases have imperfect con¬
trol of their mediums, and cannot say what they wish.
A STRANGE STORY.
The following story, which does not appear to be well
authenticated, is published in the Religio Philosophical
Journal of Feb. 21st last:—
And now comes the Bedford (Pa.) Inquirer, and gives start¬
ling accounts in reference to an enchanted bridge. It appears
that about six miles west of that place is a bridge known as
Kinton’s Bridge, which spans the Juniata, and is a spot of no
mean significance in the history of the township. By many
of the citizens, for many years, this bridge has been dreaded,
and there are those who, rather than cross it, would wade the
sparkling stream at a temperature of 20 deg. ;* not that the
superstructure is faulty, nor that there is any petty jealousy,
but because it is believed that the Devil, or some other body
or thing who has not the interest and happiness of the citizens
at heart, wields a terrible, evil, magic influence over it.
Many wonderful stories are told concerning what has hap¬
pened on this famous bridge.
One afternoon, some time since, it is stated that a farmer
started with a load of corn to Mann’s Choice, and on his way
had to pass through the bridge. He was a man not given to
fear, nor to the belief in spooks, ghosts, and hobgoblins. He
arrived at the town in safety, unloaded his corn, and started
for home. Just as the sun was disappearing in the western
horizon, his wagon, drawn by two powerful horses, entered
the bridge, when, all of a sudden, they came to a halt;
whack went the whip about the legs of the fiery steeds, who
strained every nerve to go forward, but it was a dead stall.
The driver dismounted and examined the wagon, found that
it had not caught against anything, and proceeded to lead his
team ; but, to his great astonishment, the wagon would not
move. He unhitched the horses, led them out of the bridge,
and tied them to a fence. He then returned, with the inten¬
tion of backing the wagon out, but he found that the wheels
were firmly set, the tongue was immovable, and the light bed,
which he had handled many a time without assistance, was so
* At this temperature it would he solid and unwadable,—Ed. o/S.
solidly fixed that he could not move even the one corner.
Night came on, and with it anathemas loud and deep. He
declared he could not go home without his wagon, to be
laughed at by his neighbours. The services of a man and
boy, who lived near the bridge, were brought into requisition.
They had a lantern. The trio did all in their power to loose
the wagon, but it remained as stationary as though it were
a part of the bridge. Finally they gave up in despair. The
farmer had already mounted his horse preparatory to starting
for home, when the chain attached to the tongue rattled. He
went back. The magic spell was broken, and the wagon
followed in the wake of the horses as though nothing had
occurred. The affair created a wonderful sensation in the
neighbourhood, and to this day is a dark mystery.
So late as one night last week two young men in a buggy,
drawn by a powerfully-built family horse, approached^ the
bridge, and when about two-thirds through, their progress
was suddenly and mysteriously stopped. The horse put forth
his best licks, but the buggy remained firm. The gentlemen
alighted and discovered that their vehicle had grown fast to
the bridge, and would not give anywhere. After half an
hour’s pulling and tngging'they concluded to unhitch and go
home. When the horse was about half unhitched, the buggy
became loose, and they went on their way rejoicing. In con¬
cluding the account, the Inquirer says, “ We do not pretend to
give any reasons for these mysteries, but we are willing to.
swear that we get our information from as reliable men as
Bedford county can produce, and that they are candid in their
convictions.”
HAUNTINGS BY A MURDERER AND HIS YICTIM.
From the “Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Feb. 21, 1874.
The Louisville (Ky.) Courier-Journal gives an ac¬
count of the two spirits returning, one is a hanged mur¬
derer, the other his victim. It appears that Dudley
White, coloured, killed a white man on the road near
Richmond mines, opposite the house of a Mr. Theodore
Youts, The negro was promptly arrested and im¬
prisoned. A few nights after the murder White was
taken from the Greenville jail by a band of men and
hanged. It appears that the spirits of both the exe¬
cuted murderer and his victim make regular and oft-
repeated visits to the scene of the bloody tragedy.
A few nights ago a couple of young men living in
the neighbourhood rode by the house of the murderer,
and they relate that just as they were passing the place
Dudley came out from the yard, looking “ as natural
as life,,, and walked between their horses, keeping
company with them for some distance, frequently
changing his position, sometimes walking around and
under their horses. On their return by the same road
they again saw the apparition, and it acted as before.
When the negro was found hanging to a limb the
next day after his execution, he was taken down and
“laid out” in an old house near by. It is said that
he is now often seen at this house, passing up and
down stairs in a very restless and mysterious manner.
Mr. Youts, who is said to be one of the most reliable
and respectable gentlemen in the neighbourhood, has
often seen the murdered white man near his house. The
ghostly visitor is generally seen walking about in the
road near Mr. Tout’s house, passing at intervals of
every few minutes the spot of ground upon which he
was murdered. Mr. Touts has become greatly annoyed
by these ghostly visits, and it is said is talking of
moving from the neighbourhood.
The affair has created a great sensation in that sec¬
tion of the country, and especially amongst the blacks,
who are quite numerous in the immediate neighbour¬
hood of the murder.
114 • THE SPIRITUALIST. March 6, 1874.
THE PROSPECTUS OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
The following is the prospectus of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, finally approved at a Council
Meeting held last Monday night:—
DECLABATION OE PRINCIPLES AND PURPOSES.
Spiritualism implies the recognition of an inner
nature in man. It deals with facts concerning that
inner nature, the existence of which has been the
subject of speculation, dispute, and even of denial,
amongst philosophers in all ages; and in particular,
with certain manifestations of that inner nature which
have been observed in persons of peculiar organisations,
now called mediums or sensitives, and in ancient times,
prophets, priests, and seers.
Spiritualism claims to have established on a firm
scientific basis the immortality of man, the permanence
of his individuality, and the open communion, under
suitable conditions, of the living with the so-called
dead, and affords grounds for the belief in progressive
spiritual states in new spheres of existence.
Spiritualism furnishes the key to the better under¬
standing of all religions, ancient and modern. It
explains the philosophy of inspirations and supersedes
the popular notion of the miraculous by the revelation
of hitherto unrecognised laws.
Spiritualism tends to abrogate exaggerated class
distinctions; to reunite those who are now too often
divided by seemingly conflicting material interests;
to encourage the co-operation of men and women in
many new spheres; and to uphold the freedom and
rights of the individual, while maintaining as para¬
mount the sanctity of family life.
Finally, the influence of Spiritualism on the individual
is to inspire him with self-respect, with a love of
justice and truth, with a reverence for Divine law, and
with a sense of harmony between man, the universe,
and God.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is
formed to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion
for their mutual aid and benefit, to promote the study
of pneumatology and psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the now
recognised facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or
psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at
by careful scientific research; and to direct attention to
the beneficial influence which those results are calcu¬
lated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every
class, whether members of local and provincial societies
or not, and all inquirers into psychological and kindred
phenomena.
The Association, while cordially'sympathising with
the teachings of Jesus Christ, will hold itself entirely
aloof from all dogmatism or finalities, whether religious
or philosophical, and will content itself with the
establishment and elucidation of well-attested facts, as
the only basis on which any true religion or philosophy
can be built up.
The Association proposes, whenjcircumstances permit,
to establish a Central Institution, comprising a hall,
lecture and seance rooms, also a library for the use of
members, and for the benefit of all students of physical
and spiritual phenomena; to keep a register of mediums
or psychics, with the view of affording facilities for in¬
vestigation ; and to promote co-operation and intercom¬
munion between Spiritualists in all parts of the world.
The Association, while aiming to unite the advantages
of vigorous centralisation with the benefits of indepen¬
dent local effort and local self-government, emphatically
disclaims any right or desire to interfere with the
action of societies or institutions already established. It
is hoped that local and provincial organisations will
avail themselves of the powers afforded in Rules II. and
IY. by becoming affiliated with the “British National
Association,” and by appointing from their own body a
member to represent them on the Council.
THE ADDRESS TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
The following is a copy of the address which formed
part of the testimonial recently presented by English
Spiritualists to the venerable and learned Judge
Edmonds, of New York. It is an eloquent record of
the services which he has rendered to the cause of
Spiritualism:—
To Judge Edmonds.
We, on behalf of your many admirers in England,
desire to testify to you our high appreciation of the
distinguished services you have rendered to the cause of
Spiritualism.
At a time when that cause was far less popular than
now; when ignorance and misrepresentation concern¬
ing it were all but universal; when the prejudices not
only of the multitude, but of the schools of science
and philosophy were arrayed against it; when it was
assailed from the pulpit and by the press; when sec¬
tarian animosity was most bitter, and popular clamour
at its loudest; and when its advocates were loaded with
vituperation and ridicule; you gave to the claims of
Spiritualism a searching, protracted, and most thorough
investigation; and having at length satisfied yourself
of its truth, you at once courageously and unhesitatingly
proclaimed it, and gave to its advocacy the weight of
your well-known name and high social position; and
from that time to this you have, in books and tracts, in
lectures, in public journals, and in a most extensive
private correspondence, upheld with all the powers of
mind with which God has so eminently blessed you,
the banner of “ Truth against the World.”
Many of us are indebted to your writings for our
first introduction to a knowledge of Spiritualism, and
all have perused them with interest and instruction.
The cause you have served so well knows no limits of
party, country, or creed; it is wide as the universe, as
universal as humanity. It teaches that there is no
death, and that the future life is one with boundless
possibilities of progress for all God’s children. You
have interpreted it in no narrow or sectarian spirit, and
we feel that the eminent services you have so generously
rendered to our common cause, should not pass without
some public recognition on this side of the Atlantic.
The literature of Spiritualism in England is far less
voluminous than that of your own country, and it pro¬
bably contains little, if anything, of value which has
not there found expression, and which your own pene¬
tration has not anticipated. But it may interest you to
compare the way in which the same great truths pre¬
sent themselves to the thoughtful minds of both
countries. We, therefore, and as a mark of our high
regard, request your acceptance of those works on
Spiritualism, by English authors, which are most
March 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
esteemed among us. We further request your accept¬
ance of two albums, one containing the portraits of some
who have been among the most active in promoting
Spiritualism in England, and the other some of the
spirit photographs obtained in England during the past
two years.
Hoping that your life on earth may .he spared many
years for the continuance of your most useful labours;
and with profound respect, we the committee subscribe
our names on behalf of the general body of the Spiri¬
tualists of the United Kingdom.
Thos. J. Allman.
Henry Bielfeld.
Charles Blackburn.
Samuel Chinnery.
Benj. Coleman.
Robt. Cooper.
Jacob Dixon, M.D.
Thos. Everitt.
Hy. A. Fawcett, R.N.
J. H. Gledstanes.
Thos. Grant.
James M. Gully, M.D.
Samuel Carter Hall.
William Howitt.
John Enmore Jones.
Andrew Leighton.
Benj. Morrell.
Thomas Shorter.
William Tebb.
Thomas Slater.
Cromwell F. Yarley, F.R.S.
Wm. Wallace.
James Wason.
William White.
Wm. M. Wilkinson, F.S.A.
THE CLAIRYOYAHCE OF THE BLIND.
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA VAY.
Your article about blind seers in a recent number of
the Spiritualist induces me to tell you about a blind
woman I know. She is a poor Jewess named Friedman,
living at Pesth, in a dreary little room, and a very poor
abode. She is about fifty years old, and for sixteen
years has been totally blind. The day her son was
born she became blind, so that she never saw him with
material eyes.
Dr. Griinhut, of Pesth, who is vice-president (as my
husband, the Baron Eugen Yay, is president), of the
Society of Spiritualists at Pesth, found the poor woman
out, and asked me how one could heal her of her
blindness. Our spirit leaders said that materially she
never would see, but spiritually she would become a
great medium and be a seer. They said also that the
doctor’s wife should mesmerise her.
Immediately after the third time of mesmerising the
woman exclaimed that she saw many things ; she de¬
scribed all she saw minutely, and she, a poor unedu-1
cated Jewish woman, spoke like a prophetess. Not only
did she utter words she had previously never heard, but
she described the living persons around her ; for in¬
stance, she immediately recognised me. She said the
first time I visited her that she had seen the “ medium
Adelina,” as she named me, often in her sleep. I
ordered her medicines, and told them how to mesmerise
her. She described my dress, hair, features, and tha
spirits above and around me; this she did to several
persons.
Once she had a warning in her sleep. Dr. Griinhut
often came to fetch her in a cab to the spirit seances,
and when he had no time he sent his brother or some
member of the Society. In her dream her guardian
spirit told her that a stranger would come that day, and
tell her that the doctor sent him; but that he intended
to take her away out of curiosity to a stranger’s house.
Further, they told her that she was not to go, for fear
of getting a fit there. The poor blind woman told this
in the morning to the doctor. Two hours after he went
away somebody knocked at the door of her poor .dusky
garret, and a stranger came in: She saw him with
her spiritual eyes, and felt his mesmeric influence he
also uttered exactly the same words of which she had
dreamed. She replied to him indignantly, “ Go ! I know
you would come to tempt me with money (as he really
intended). Go ! I know who you are. Tell them who
sent you that I am not to be caught though blind.”
She told him then a few more things about his affairs,
so that he retired much afraid and in all haste. The
people of the house saw the cab, and the person en¬
tering the blind woman’s room; they also heard her
speak harshly to the stranger. About this blind
Jewess we could write volumes.
Ganobitz, Austria. Feb. 22nd, 1874.
WHAT WORK SHOULD A NATIONAL
ORGANISATION UNDERTAKE ?
Several of the members of the Council of the
National Association drew up a prospectus each, and
afterwards compared them. The one finally adopted
originated with Miss Kislingbury, but some of Mr.
Noyes’ suggestions were incorporated with it, after
which it was considerably revised by a committee. The
prospectus suggested by Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, junr.,
B.A. (Oxon), was an elaborate document; it was not
adopted, but is of interest, coming as it does from a
highly educated and intelligent gentleman, who has
given much thought to the question, “ What work
should a national organisation undertake ?” It touches
upon many controversial subjects, and gives the opinions
of Mr. Noyes as to the position which an organisation
should assume in respect thereto as follows :—
I.
The victories of civilisation have been achieved by a
judicious organisation of the units of society, and the ad¬
vantages of intelligent co-operation are now so universally
acknowledged that it would be unpardonable for Spiritualists
to ignore them.
n.
It has accordingly been determined to draw up articles of
association upon the broadest possible basis, and invite the co¬
operation of all students of pneumatology and psychology, a
numerous and flourishing minority who may reasonably ex¬
pect ere long to absorb the majority.
III.
The first question for consideration was the choice of a style
and title for the new Association, and after'much deliberation it
has been decided to call it “ The British National Association
of Spiritualists.”
To obviate possible misconceptions, we proceed to define
the meaning we attach to the terms selected.
We have chosen the terms “ British National ” to express
our intention that all persons who for the time being are
sojourners within the British dominions, shall be eligible as
members, and having regard to the fact of the intimate
association between the spirit and the soul, we have chosen
the word Spiritualist with the intent that it should be taken
to include all ’Psychologists, all students and investigators of
facts and phenomena called spiritual ox psychical, and that it
shall not be taken to imply adhesion to any preconceived
theory or any religious dogma whatsoever. We do not even
intend that it shall exclude professed materialists who seek
admission to our ranks.
IV.
The next question for consideration was the definition of
the functions of the Association, the aims and objects of its
organisation, and these we have now to enumerate.
1. The first object of the Association is to secure the public
and general recognition and intelligent appreciation of the
marvellous facts and phenomena which first attracted public
notice at Rochester in the United States through the inter¬
vention of Miss Kate Fox, now Mrs. Jackson, and which have
since been observed with ^numerable modifications and un¬
expected developments by millions of credible witnesses in
all parts of the world. Phenomena inexplicable by any pre¬
viously recognised laws of nature, phenomena which have
hitherto baffled the ingenuity of all critics who questioned
their spiritual origin, phenomena which are daily occurring
116
THE SPIBITUALIST.
March 6,1874.
in ourown family circles, and which now claim to extend the
realm of nature and the reign of law to an invisible world,
and bid fair to vanquish the scepticism of the votaries of
science as well as the prejudices of the religious world.
2. The second object of the Association is to secure to all
students and investigators the necessary facilities for systematic
investigation and study—facilities which in the face of an ad¬
verse public opinion due to our traditional prejudices and
hereditary misconceptions, can only be secured by organised
and energetic co-operation, and by the judicious management
of a common purse.
3. The third object of the Association is to study, formu¬
late, and promulgate the new systems of metaphysical and
moral philosophy and religious teaching, which would seem
to be the legitimate outcome, and all sufficient justification of
these same facts and phenomena, however trivial they may
appear in their earlier manifestations to superficial observers.
The achievement of these objects involves—
1. The collection of records of such occurrences during
the last twenty-five years, whether published or unpublished,
and a diligent comparison of such records with the records of
similar occurrences which have taken place in all ages and
among all nations, but which have been misunderstood, mis¬
represented, and discredited as being miraculous and outside
of law, or assigned to superstitious and epidemic delusions.
2. It involves the diligent investigation and verification of
the occult sciences of the Middle Ages, and the much neg¬
lected science of mesmerism, which are concerned with such
phenomena, as well as the study of ancient religions and
ancient mysteries, inasmuch as the experience of the past is
useful for the elucidation of the present, and may itself be
elucidated by the multitude of novel facts elicited by modern
discoveries.
3. It involves the collection, recording, and classification
of contemporary testimony to the occurrence of similar phe¬
nomena in our homes, and the diligent scrutiny of multitudi¬
nous facts collectively and individually on the part of the
Association and its members.
4. And inasmuch as these facts and phenomena are ascer¬
tained to take place only in the presence and by the interven¬
tion of certain exceptionally gifted persons, now called
“Mediums,” “Sensitives,” and “Clairvoyants,” but of old
called “Prophets,” “Priests,” and “Seers;” and inasmuch
as their exceptional gifts have been proved to require cultiva¬
tion and development under very subtle and delicate condi¬
tions, it involves much diligent labour in the discovery, culti¬
vation, education, and classification of public and private
mediums, and, further, a diligent investigation of the condi¬
tions most favourable to the manifestation of the highest
phenomena.
5. And inasmuch as these phenomena are not only physical,
but metaphysical, and have developed since the earlier mani¬
festations into multitudinous phases which correspond to and
even transcend the spiritual gifts enumerated in the New
Testament, and throw new and unexpected light on the
philosophy of inspiration and revelation, yielding cogent proof
that there was no greater finality in the revelation of the
Christian era than in the revelations of the Mosaic era—
it involves an obligation to make these facts widely known,
however unpalatable they may be to popular prejudices ; it
involves an obligation to publish the fact that if the world is
unwilling to welcome unpalatable truths, it must be because it
is unwilling to give up its malpractices, unwilling to welcome
truths which will exhibit them in their .true light, and prove
it to be a wicked world; and it involves an obligation to
proclaim that all who have the progress and prosperity of
the world at heart, will do well to welcome Spiritualism.
6. And, lastly, inasmuch as it has been found of great
practical importance that seances should be held in rooms
specially appropriated and preserved, like the chancels of our
churches, from mixed influences, and that such conditions are.
at present difficult of attainment; and as, moreover, it has
proved difficult to find even public lecture halls in suitable
localities open to lecturers who do not belong to the reputed
orthodox schools, and equally difficult to obtain free circula¬
tion for the literature of Spiritualism, if involves the founding
of a Central Institution, comprising a public lecture-hall,
library, reading, and seance rooms, with all the machinery of
a missionary organisation in some central situation, as a model
for similar institutions.
Now, inasmuch as the world is now ready to receive truth,
if convinced of it—willing to receive truth when it is found
to be true—we think it is desirable to put before it the facts
which we think it Will discover to be true. We think it will
find that the mission of Spiritualism will be to introduce
reforms into the political and social systems of the world,
which will be the inauguration of a new dispensation.
We will, therefore, proceed to enumerate the missions of
Spiritualism, as they appear to us to present themselves,
under the influence of the teaching of the invisible world.
THE MISSIONS OF SPIRITUALISM.
1. To afford demonstration of the fact of the immortality of
the soul, and so to arrest the materialistic tendencies of
modern philosophers, and to disarm death of its terrors.
2. To throw new light on the moral government of the
visible universe by invisible agencies; to furnish fresh proofs
of the perfections of the Almighty ; and to dispel doubts of
the efficacy of prayer by disclosing its true philosophy.
3. To supplement the ancient revelations of the future
state. To prove the unbroken continuity of conscious exist¬
ence and personal identity in the mental condition of the
departed, and their ability and inclination to open communi¬
cations with those whom they have loved and left on earth.
4. To disclose and promulgate the conditions and laws of
such open communication, and to cause the experience of the
most highly favoured few to be utilised for the benefit of the
less highly favoured many.
5. To teach that the best preparation for our future state
is a life of energy and activity, lived up to the highest physi¬
cal, moral, and intellectual standard attainable in this world,
by the harmonious development and adequate exercise of all
the faculties with which each man is individually endowed,
and that, while it is well to direct special attention to the
cultivation of special aptitudes, none of the higher faculties
can safely be left uncultivated.
6. To vindicate and revive the time-honoured belief that
the protection of guardian angels is still, and has ever been
accorded to mankind, and to prove that these willing workers
exert an occult influence even upon those who are wholly
unconscious of their presence, and utterly ignore their agency ;
and that their special mission is to keep alive the still,
small voice of conscience, and flash bright, thoughts into
the head, and pure and holy aspirations into the heart, so
long as their benign influence is not repelled by obstinate
persistence in the paths of transgression. That they are,
indeed, willing workers of all good works in the spirit world,
ever ready -to aid those who need their aid in all things
needful for their temporal and eternal welfare.
7. To vindicate and revive the belief, as old as the days
of Hesiod, that our guardian angels are the spirits of our
departed fellow mortals, who, having once inhabited our earth,
have their experience of the troubles of life to guide them in
ministering to us.
8. To rectify the current misconceptions of the powers
of evil, and to prove to the world that the Prince of Darkness
employs innumerable agencies, made ready to his hand by
the rulers of the world. in which we live, inasmuch as the
hosts who do his work are the undeveloped spirits who have
passed unpurified from earth life into the spirit world,
whence they gladly return to earth to gratify their own evil
passions by inspiring men of like passions with themselves
with evil thoughts and impure desires.
9. To convince the world that the powers of evil will
eventually be conquered by the invisible hosts of the
Almighty, when the end of the present dispensation shall
have come, but not till after the earth shall have been deso¬
lated by terrible wars, which, within the brief period of ten
years from the present time, will have ceased for ever, if the
world will but believe in the power of the angel world to
deliver them from their invisible foes.
10. To revive and place upon a rational basis the practice of
praying for departed friends, by disclosing the fact that they
often yearn for human sympathy, and are conscious of its
being accorded them ; and that if they have not yet risen to
the happier spheres, and are still earth-bound spirits, messen¬
gers of mercy and love may be sent to aid them in answer to
our petitions.
11. To prove to the world that the state of the soul after its
departure into spirit life is not fixed final and stationary, but
a state of progressive and eternal development, not a state of
rest and idleness, but a state of energy and activity in which
all its mental powers cultivated on earth will find suitable
employment, and in which many other faculties now dormant
will be developed—a state much more closely resembling our
own than has heretofore been conceived of. To show in short
that the world has been heretofore left to look forward to
rest in heaven, as being the way in which it could best be
March 6, 1874. / THE SPIRITUALIST. 117
taught to realise the soul’s release from many of the physical
sufEerings of the earth-life which are intended for the purifi¬
cation of the spirit.
12. To make clear to the world that the day of death is the
day of judgment, and that the prevalent belief in the resur¬
rection of the body is due to a misconception of the fact of
the resurrection of the Spiritual body which is coincident
with the death of the mortal body.
13. To throw light on many most important physiological
questions involved in the relations of the indwelling sour and
spirit to the mortal body ; to wit, the action of the mind
upon the brain, and the action of the brain upon the nervous
system.
14. To discover and promote the development of whatever
faculties may be latent in human nature, and thereby to show
that the unfolding of higher and nobler faculties is the
ultimate destiny of every soul of man.
15. To extend the domain of science to the realms of the
invisible, the impalpable, and the imponderable, and to
supersede the supernatural by proving that the occult
mysteries of human nature heretofore deemed beyond the
reach of human intellect, if not forbidden to human research,
are destined to be revealed to the truth-seeker, to the unspeak¬
able advantage of humanity.
16. To dissipate erroneous views of the distinction between
science and religion, and to build up a new Church based on
the identity of religious and secular knowledge.
17. To winnow the wheat of truth from the chaff of
theology, and reconcile antagonistic creeds by eliminating
their errors, and making manifest the spiritual truths which
underlie all systems of religious belief in the world.
18. To encourage willing works of love, mercy, and charity
upon earth.
19. To promulgate a sounder system of political economy
calculated to remedy many crying social evils.
20. To remedy the evils resulting from excessive irregularity
in the distribution of wealth under the present system of
social and political economy which has made the rich too rich
and the poor too poor.
21. To sow the seeds of a general reformation of morals,
and bring about the cure of moral and physical diseases in
the way which, nature would be found to prescribe when her
occult laws come to be understood.
22. To bring about a more rational observance of the day
of rest and recreation by a more liberal application of the
maxim that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the
Sabbath, a maxim which is opposed to the common practice
of making it a fast day.
23. To introduce a sounder system of education by directing
more special attention to the discovery and cultivation of the
natural gifts of our children, and by~ encouraging the
general teaching of the elements of physiological and psychic
science in our elementary schools, and seeing that an intel¬
ligent appreciation of these subjects is essential to the attain¬
ment of the highest physical, moral, and intellectual develop¬
ment—
24. To vindicate, popularise, and perfect the much neglected
but most important sciences of phrenology and physiognomy,
and introduce them into our'national schools and seminaries,
with a view to the utilising to the utmost of our educational
resources, and to the great benefit that would accrue to
society if the practical use of these sciences in dealing with
their neighbours were understood by the people at large.
25. To suggest reforms in the principles of bur criminal
legislation, and in the practice of our penal establishments.
26. To reform the principles of our lunacy legislation and
the practice of our lunatic asylums.
27. To bring about the liberation of many sensitives and
mediums now wrongfully incarcerated in these asylums on
account of their possessing faculties not comprehended by
the faculty, and who, if liberated, under judicious treatment,
would prove to be some of the most ^useful members of
society.
28. To inaugurate extensive sanitary reforms by enforcing
the more general application of the principle that prevention
is better than cure, and by suggesting radical improvements
in the principles and practice of the healing art. Such im¬
provements may consist in the introduction of more scientific
methods of using resources provided by the beneficent action
of the laws of the world of spirits, in the suggestions of novel
applications of the use of changes of temperature, and of the
uses of air, light, and darkness, in the disclosure of the use of
many simple remedies at present unknown to the world, and
of the efficient use of many hitherto misused drugs, and in
the development of the remedial uses of electricity and
magnetism, which, although of late introduced by a few en¬
lightened practitioners, are still ignored by the faculty at large.
29. To suggest reforms in the principles upon which our
hospitals are conducted, and to bring their practice more into
harmony with the laws which nature prescribes.
30. To revive the ancient practice of healing by imposition
of hands, and to build up as a science that beneficent art, as
ancient as the world itself, which is known among us by the
modern name of “mesmerism;” an art which is empirically
practised all over the world under various names, but whose
sphere of usefulness would be vastly enlarged, if the principles
which lie at the root of the practice were made to yield their
secrets to scientific research.
31. To revive and popularise the ancient practice of crema¬
tion, which is so preferable to burial, from a sanitary point of
view, and which will be useful to make the world understand
that the body will not rise again in the flesh, but in the
spirit.
32. To minister consolation to the bereaved, and prove that
it would be more rational to mourn for the survivors.
33. To suggest reforms in the principles of our Poor Law
Legislature, and remedies for the terrible evils of our work-
house system.
34. To cause the rights of the labouring classes to a larger
share of the produce of their labour to be conceded.
35. To improve the condition of the labouring classes in
this country in the matter of wages, in the matter of dwellings,
in the matter of education, and in the matter of well-doing in
the world ; and especially to ameliorate the condition of the
workers in factories, mills, mines, and mineral workshops
and manufactories dealing with poisonous materials, who
sacrifice their health for hire, and who will not help them¬
selves ; and those who labour in the stinking workshops of
private tradesmen who will not help their workpeople. We are
not blind to the fact that the attention of the Legislature has
of late been directed to these crying evils, but we know that
Legislation has been powerless to eradicate them, and we be¬
lieve that it will continue to be powerless until the true
principles of action come to be better understood; and these
principles we believe it to be the mission of Spiritualism to
inculcate.
36. To raise the standard of humanity, and improve the
physical and mental conditions of future generations, by
directing attention to many questions relating to marriage,
and the psychological influences affecting unborn babes which
have been so grievously overlooked, to the great detriment of
the human race, and especially effects resulting from mar¬
riages effected from mercenary motives, and from the irregu¬
larities incidental to the more or less nominal celibacy of so
large a percentage of the population.
-37. To cause the rights of woman to be recognised to the
full.
38. To cause the wrongs of woman to be redressed to the
full.
39. To open the churches of England to the free use of the
laity for the secular instruction of the people on week days and
Sundays, after the brilliant example recently set by the Dean
of Westminster, and to show that all truth, all knowledge,
and all wisdom may fitly be taught therein without profana¬
tion from the pulpits hitherto monopolised by the clergy, but
hereafter destined for the free use of faithful mediums.
40. To inaugurate a universal missionary work with a view
to make the world wiser and more willing to render efficient
help to the poor, the weak, and the afflicted, wherever they
are to be found, and generally to do the work of the spirit-
world in amending the evils of the world in which we live.
41. To teach that the last will be the first in the Kingdom
of Heaven, if the last is the most deserving in the world of
spirits, and has been the most deserving in the earth-life ; and
that the first in earthly honours will be the last in spirit-life
if he have now no higher place by his own merits.
42. And generally to enlighten the world in all matters in
which the occult influence of spiritual agency has been here¬
tofore ignored.
* * * * *
Having thus enumerated some of the many missions which
modern Spiritualism seems destined to fulfil, it becomes our
duty to consider by what practical measures this Association
may best improye the suggestions, and second the philan¬
thropic aims of the invisible world.
It has been decided that the corporate affairs of the Asso¬
ciation shall be committed to a large and liberal representa¬
tive Council, who trust that their initiative will be cordially
118
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
March 6, 1874.
seconded by the energetic cooperation of a very numerous
body of members working collectively and individually in
their several spheres.
It has been decided that the gates of membership shall be
thrown open to all honest students and applicants who are
able and willing to contribute as a minimum the small annual
subscription of 5s.
But inasmuch as a large expenditure must be incurred
efficiently to further the multitudinous objects which have
been indicated, it is hoped that special subscriptions and
donations will be offered by those whose means enable them
more liberally to promote the laudable and philanthropic
work which is contemplated.
It is proposed to establish, as soon as possible, in the
most central situation that can be procured in the metropolis,
an institution comprising a public hall and lecture rooms,
reading-room, library, and seance rooms, where discourses
may be delivered and seances held on week-days and Sundays ;
an institution which shall not only be a focus of radiation
and attraction for all enquirers worthy of the Spiritualists of
England, but also serve as a model for local affiliated institu¬
tions which, it is hoped, will, ere long, be found not only in
all the different districts of the metropolis, but in all centres
of population in the United Kingdom.
It is proposed to found, in connection with this institution,
and so soon as funds will permit, a college of mediums, at
which all psychics, sensitives, clairvoyants, and mediums may
be instructed how best to discover, cultivate, and develope
their latent gifts ; a college calculated to offer opportunities
for the more systematic study of the various phenomena that
can now be obtained, and special facilities for the study of
the occult sciences in general.
It is proposed that diplomas shall be granted by this
college to all such mediums and sensitives, whether trained
and developed within its walls or not, as are able to satisfy
the Association of the genuine character of their gifts and
their own trustworthiness after undergoing such tests as may
be deemed conclusive by the council, and that diplomas shall
also be issued to lecturers on phrenology, physiognomy,
mesmerism, psychology, pneumatology, and other occult
sciences, who are found qualified to undertake the missionary
labours of the Association.
It is proposed that registers and records shall be kept of all
such mediums, sensitives, and clairvoyants, and their special¬
ties, for the use of individual members and affiliated societies,
and also registers of all important facts and phenomena com¬
municated to the society by its members and correspondents
which can be authenticated to the satisfaction of the council,
and that the due authentication of all such recorded facts be
the special function of a standing judicial committee of the
council. It is further proposed that in connection with the
Institution and the College of Mediums there shall be estab¬
lished a mesmeric hospital and a school of mesmerism, in
which that important branch of the healing art may be studied,
practised, and developed into a systematic science, and in
which gratuitous treatment may be provided for the poor by
the most gifted healers.
It is proposed that the library of the Association shall be
stocked with all the ancient and modern works on pneuma¬
tology, psychology, mesmerism, phrenology, physiognomy,
and the kindred sciences, which can be collected and rendered
accessible to all members under the most liberal regulations
compatible with security.
It is proposed that public services, lectures, and seances be
held on week days and Sundays, at the central institution, so
soon as it is possible to found one, and that in the meanwhile
the council shall do their best to further the objects of the
Association, by promoting publicity and organising lectures
and public meetings in churches, chapels, halls, and lecture*
rooms in town and country, wherever and whenever it is
practicable, but above all that they should direct their atten¬
tion to the discovery and development of mediums and psychics
willing to devote their gifts to the service of the Association
and its missionary labours in the cause of truth ; and that
steps be taken to make due provision to preserve all approved
workers from the temptations of the necessitous. But inas¬
much as the extent to which these operations can be under¬
taken must be regulated by the condition of the funds at the
command of the council, and their execution will involve grave
consideration of innumerable questions of detail which will
arise from time to time, it will be desirable that the work of
progressive organisation of the several departments should be
remitted to standing committees of the council, who should
report from time to time, and whose reports when discussed
and approved should be duly circulated among the members
in the journals of the Association and the quarterly reports
of the council.
Meanwhile it is proposed that immediate steps shall be
taken to raise the funds requisite for the establishment of this
central institution by co-operative action, under the provisions
of the Limited Liability Acts, upon a plan in which all Spiri¬
tualists, psychologists, and students of humanity in the
United Kingdom may be invited to assist according to their
inclination ; and of which it is intended to embody the
details in a paper which will be circulated with the present
manifesto.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Jttdgke Edmonds, while declining the hon. member¬
ship which had been offered him, on the pleas of avoid¬
ing invidious distinctions between the English society
and similar societies in the United States which he has
always abstained from connecting himself with, and of
his advancing age and infirmity, writes :—“ I highly
approve of your plan, and can readily see how, by
means of it, you will be able to do great good to a
cause which becomes the dearer to me the nearer I ap¬
proach to the end of my earthly career.”
Mr. Joseph Mylne, of the East Indian Railway,
Bengal, accepts honorary membership, and saysI
hope the Association will be^a success. Something of
the kind is very much wanted.”
M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, accepts
hon. membership in the most hearty and earnest
manner.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen “ accepts with pleasure” an
hon. membership, and adds :—“ And shall be glad if
anything I have done, or shall be able to do, may
forward its (the Association’s) objects as set forth in
the constitution Which you kindly forwarded to me.”
Dr. J. J. Gr. Wilkinson declined a seat on the Council
on the score of health, - want of time, and being a
Swedenborgian, but adds :—“ I am, however, a loving
watcher of all religion-tending Spiritualism. I hope
your society will" be of wide use. ... I wish you all
good success.”
Mr. Crookes thinks that he can better serve the
cause by keeping himself quite unconnected with any
public movement.
Last Monday Messrs. Keningale Cook, B.A., George
H. Dawson, George King, E.I.A., E.S.E., and the Rev.
W. E. Short, having consented to act on the Council,
were elected unanimously. A letter was read from Mr.
Coleman, offering to join the Association. Mr. Cole¬
man was unanimously elected a vice-president. The
“ Declaration of Principles and Purposes ” received
some last touches, and was finally approved. It will
immediately be issued.
A letter was ordered to be written to the editor of
the Medium in reference to some incorrect statements
in his last number.
M. T. Everitt occupied the chair, and twelve mem¬
bers of the Council were present.
Seance at Mes. Makdocgall Geegoey’s. — Last
Tuesday night there was another seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W. Miss
Showers was the medium ; Mrs. Hollis was expected, but was
too unwell to attend. The seance differed in no material
respect from those previously given through the non-pro¬
fessional mediumship of the same young lady. The medium-
ship of Miss Showers differs from that of Mr. Williams and
Miss Cook, in the circumstance that she does not get the
powerful physical phenomena which they obtain when sitting
in circle, but, on the other hand, she has such remarkable
voice manifestations. Baron du Potet is still Mrs. Gregory’s
guest; he will return to France in a few days.
Mabch 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. ]
MISSTATEMENTS CORRECTED.
Sir,—In the Medium, of February 27th, Mr. Burns, with
characteristic unfairness, accuses me of coming to his institu¬
tion “ as a plenipotentiary to negotiate an alliance.” He
asserts that I said, “ Turn round in your tone, and gradually
take up our position, and we will subsidise you with money.”
I need scarcely point out that the charge has no foundation in
fact. I went to the man’s office entirely on my own respon¬
sibility, and animated by the good motives of a peacemaker.
After some conversation, Mr. Burns tried to make out that the
Association would injure his trade. 1 suggested that, even
looking at the matter from a mere business standpoint, orga¬
nisation would probably conduce to his worldly interests, in
so far as the consequent increase in the number of Spiritualists
would tend to produce a proportionate augmentation in the
number of his subscribers. The assertion that I tried to bribe
him is a reckless, shameless invention. As for my “lengthy
correspondence of a Jesuitical complexion apologising for the
Emperor Constantine,” that charge also may be dismissed
with the brief reply, that though I made, in a suppressed
paper, some literary allusion to the Emperor, of which there
is no reason to be ashamed, Mr. Burns’ declamatory insinua¬
tions are wildly absurd, as would have been clearly shown,
had he thought fit to publish the letter. Regretting that the
cause of Spiritualism should be blighted by the advocacy of a
person who does not hesitate to vilify its sincere advocates in
terms which cannot be repeated to readers of the leading
spiritual journal,—I am, &c.,
Reform Club, Pall Mall. James Thornton HoSEins.
Sir,—Enclosed I beg to hand you for publication, a copy of
a letter addressed to the editor of the Medium.
Thomas Blyton, Aciing Secretary.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
March 3rd, 1874.
WHERE THB CARCASE IS, &C., &C-
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sir,—I am instructed by the Council of this Association to
request you to publish their emphatic denial of the correctness
of the statements under the above heading in your last
number.
The Association has never, collectively pr individually,
practised or sanctioned any “ persecution or mirepresentation
of the Institution, or those connected with itnor are they
aware of any such persecution or misrepresentation having
been practised by any of their members.. And further, they
have never deputed any one “to negotiate an alliance” with
you, or to make you any such offers as.you state to have been
made to you by Mr. Hoskins.
(Signed) Emily Kislingbury, Hon. Sec.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
3rd March, 1874.
SORROW EOR THE DEPARTED.
Sir,—In Brixton churchyard, facing the main road, may be
seen the following lines engraved on a tomb. I send them
only as a specimen of orthodox despair at death :—
O Miles ! the modest, learned, and sincere,
Will sigh for thee, whose ashes slumber here.
The youthful bard will pluck a flowret pale,
Prom this sad turf, when e’er he reads the tale
That one so young and lovely died; and last
Shall come in summer's bloom or winter's blast,
When the sun’s vigour warms or tempests rave,
A mother to weep o’er this hopeless grave.
As the inscription is dated fifty years back, we may hope
that this unhappy mother has been removed from her sad
watch over the depository of her son’s worn-out garment, and
rejoined him “ in the fields of light above.”
How much more cheering it would be to read the lines of
an «7t-orthodox Christian and Spiritualist, such as Longfellow,
from his “ Reaper and the Flowers,”
The mother gave in tears and pain,
The flowers she most did love;
She knew she should find them all again
In the fields of light above.
O, not in cruelty, not in wrath,
The Reaper came that day;
'Twas an angel visited the green earth,
And took the flowers away.
Or from his “ Resignation.”
There is no death! what seems so is transition;
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life Elysian,
Whose portal we called death.
She is not dead, the child of our affection,
But gone into that school
Where she no longer needs our poor protection,
And Christ Himself doth rule.
In that great cloister’s stillness and seclusion,
By guardian angels led,
Safe from temptation, safe from sin’s pollution,
She lives, whom we call dead.
Day after day we think what she is doing
In those bright realms of air;
Year after year, her tender steps pursuing,
Behold her grown more fair.
Thus do we walk with her, and keep unbroken,
The bond which nature gives,
Thinking that our remembrance, though unspoken,
May reach her where she lives.
Not as a child shall we again behold her;
For when with rapture wild
In our embraces we again enfold her,
She will not be a child.
But a fair maiden in her Father’s mansion,
Clothed with celestial grace;
And beautiful with all the soul’s expansion
Shall we behold her face.
Brixton, March 3rd, 1874. Hope.
A SEANCE AT BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—I have much pleasure in sending you an account of
another successful dark seance held at the Midland Spiritual
Institute, Birmingham, on Monday, February 23rd. Our
circle consisted of eleven persons, under the presidency of
Mr. Aaron Franklin, whose disinterested labours in the cause
of Spiritualism are well known. We met, as usual, for de¬
velopment. Before sitting, the medium was most carefully
searched in the presence of all the sitters. The sitters were
also themselves thoroughly searched.
After sitting about an hour, the medium was controlled by
his spirit guide, who spoke a few encouraging words to us all.
At the spirit’s request we struck a light, when much to the
delight of all present, there were lying on the floor nine
beautiful garden daises, some of which were beautifully
variegated. They were remarkably fresh, and presented the
appearance of having been freshly gathered. We forward
you the daisies. JOHN WATSON.
Midland Spiritual Institute,
58, Sheffield-street, Birmingham.
THE RECEPTION OF NEW TRUTHS.
Sir,---The attitude of science towards new discoveries
is shown in a passage from Galileo’s experiences. “From obser¬
vations made by Galileo in January, 1610, with a new tele¬
scope, just constructed, of thirty magnifying power, he
‘ announced at once the discovery of four moons resembling
our own, and revolving about the planet Jupiter as their
central orb.’ This announcement created the greatest excite¬
ment in the astronomical world. Its effect on the old theory
of astronomy was at once perceived, and the disciples of
Ptolemy determined that they would never believe in the
existence of any such pestilent worlds. Some of them actually
refused to do so much as look through the tube of Galileo, de¬
claring the whole was a deception, and unworthy the atten¬
tion of a true philosopher.”—Popular Astronomy, by 0. M.
Mitchell. Routledge, 1860, p. 110.
How truly does the attitude of the savans of Galileo’s time
coincide with the position assumed by Drs. Carpenter, Huxley,
Tyndall and Co., towards Spiritualism. B.
Manchester, February 25th, 1874.
Owing to a printer’s error in punctuation, in a report of
a seance at Mrs. Gregory’s printed in the last number of The
Spiritualist, Mr. Percival was made to appear to be the
medium through whom the “Spirit Teachings,” occasionally
published in this journal, are given, but he is not so..
Liverpool Psychological Society.—At a member’s
meeting of this society, last .Friday, it was agreed that an
endeavour should be made to have a pic-nic in the coming
spring at some central place in Lancashire, and to make it as
general as possible. Spiritualists desirous of taking part in
the same are invited to communicate with the secretary, at
45, Kensington, Liverpool, and to offer suggestions on the
point,
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 6, 1874.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
Mrs. Lowe, a lady possessed of the gift of writing
mediumship, who, it will be remembered, was in consequence
temporarily incarcerated in a lunatic asylum, has since suc¬
ceeded in forming a Lunacy Law Reform Association, under
the management of the following ladies and gentlemen :—
Treasurer, Mr. Herbert N. Mozley, 92, Chancery-lane ; Hon.
Resident Secretary (pro tem.'), Mrs. Lowe. Offices: 64, Berners-
street, Oxford-street. Executive Committee: Mrs. Hilliard
(Marian), 61, Avenue-road, Regent’s-park; Mrs. Walter
Arnold, Petworth, Torquay; Mrs. Lowe (Louisa), Upottery
Vicarage, near Honiton. General Committee: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, Hyde-park; Mrs. N. Whiteside, Teddington;
Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe, Portman Chambers; Mrs. Rudd,
Brixton; the Misses Ponder, Brixton ; Mr. J. E. Partridge,
Hillesley, Gloucestershire; Mrs. Parker, The Cliff, Dundee ;
Rev. John Page Hopps, Glasgow; Mrs. William Chamier,
Paris; Mrs. Easted, Twickenham; Mr. W. N. Armfield,
London ; Mr. Arthur Maltby, London ; Mr. G. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Brixton ; Mrs. Tebb, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park ; Mr. Frederick A. Binney, Manchester; Mr. A. C.
Swinton, Upper Norwood ; Mrs. Maltby, London ; Colonel
Henry Clinton, Royston; Mr. Frederick Wilson; Mr. W.
Baly, St. Mark’s Hospital.
The objects of the Association are:—1. To obtain increased
securities against restrictions on liberty by false allegations of
lunacy. 2. To liberate the wrongfully detained, and obtain
compensation for them. 3. To obtain ameliorations in the
treatment of lunatics, and the substitution of state asylums
for proprietary madhouses.
Subscriptions and donations to be sent to the treasurer, Mr.
Herbert Mozley, 92, Chancery-lane, or the Hon. Secretary,
Mrs. Lowe, 64, Berners-street. Post-office orders to be made
payable to Louisa Lowe, Vere-street Post-office, Vere-street,
Oxford-street.
GERALD MASSEY AND HIS DOG “ PIP.”
(From the “ Banner of Light f Boston, U.S., Jan.
dlst, 1874.)
On the evening of Wednesday, Jan. 21st, a select
company met, in answer to invitations, at the residence
of Mrs. Hardy, among the party being Gerald Massey,
William Lloyd Garrison, Dr. Bartol, Rev. W. R. Alger,
Allen Putnam, Phineas E. Gray, L. A. Bigelow, and
U.S. Marshal Usher; two representatives of the press
were also in waiting.
Many spirit hands and arms were shown at; this
seance, including the arm of a negro; Up to this time
the manifestations at this sitting were much the same
as had characterised former meetings at the residence of
Mrs. Hardy; but another ground for examination was
about to be presented in a stronger light than ever be¬
fore, although something resembling it had been hinted
at by phenomena at her previous seances. When the
slate was withdrawn the second time, Mr. Massey
proceeded to try an experiment. On the previous
evening, at a party held at the residence of Miss Susie
E. Nickerson, 35, Dover-street, Boston, he had been
promised, through the mediumship of Mrs. Taber, that
a favourite dog (then deceased, but once owned by him
in England—a fact of which no one in the room save
himself was aware), “ Pip” by name, should be present
on the evening in question, and while there should, if
he desired it, lick his name (or other writing which Mr.
Massey might prepare) from the slate, Mrs. Hardy not
being informed of the plan. Mr. Massey therefore
wrote the name “ Pip ” upon the slate and placed it
upon the floor, under the centre of the table, with the
writing upward. Immediately the slate was again
withdrawn, and the writings found to be mostly oblit¬
erated, the dampness left by the agent in its “ washing
away” being still visible, and the width of each stroke,
marked by the portions of writing it destroyed, being
identical in dimensions with a dog’s tongue of ordinary
size. The experiment was repeated; and while the
slate was beneath the table, several of the party, in a
bantering tone, asked, u Pip who ?” whereupon, when
the tablet was withdrawn, “ Pip Massey ” was found
plainly transcribed. This simple return, by the spirit-
writers, of joke for joke, caused the astute reporter of
the Boston Post to go home and give vent to the
following profound statement:—
One of the visitants was a dog named % Pip,” which had
once belonged to Mr. Massey, who licked writing off the slate,
and also finally wrote his autograph, “ Pip Massey,” in large
characters, showing that he had increased wonderfully in in¬
telligence since his ‘ ‘ translation ” to the spirit realms.
This was extremely unjust, as those present were
acquainted with the phenomena of spirit-intercourse,
and did not lose sight of the fact that practical jokers
exist on the other as well as this side of life ; therefore
the writing of the name was attributed by them to
one of that class, who answered the query in the man¬
ner in which it was raised. Indeed, Mr. Garrison had
just pleasantly made the remark, which carried out the
feeling of the company, that these things “justify us in
being dogmatic.” In this connection it may be of in¬
terest to quote the words of Mr. Allen Putnam—one
of the party, and a Spiritualist of wide research—
uttered soon after his reading said report:
The Boston Post offers an account of this seance at Mrs.
Hardy’s, which is very fair in its presentation of facts, as far
as it goes, and is not objectionable in tone. But the writer has
furnished ground for a possible inference that the intelligent
and well-known men whom he mentions as being present,
viz., “ Mr. Gerald Massey, Mr. William Lloyd Garrison, Revs.
C. A. Bartol, and William R. Alger,” believed that Mr.
Massey’s dog, Pip, actually furnished his own autograph! It
is true that the slate, when taken from under the table, had
on it “ Pip Massey,” in large characters, but no one expressed
the opinion that the dog performed the writing. Probably
such a fancy was confined to the brain of the reporter. The
inference that “Pip” had “ increased wonderfully in intelli¬
gence since his translation to the spirit realms,” and thereby
become competent to handle the slate pencil intelligently
could be drawn by no common intellect—reportorial training
was needful for that.”
This mysterious process of “ licking ” sentences
from tbe slate was repeated several times—Mrs. Hardy
and Mrs. Brigham holding the opposite ends of the
tablet, as described—in one instance, the whole sur¬
face presenting the appearance of having been brushed
over by some damp substance of large dimensions.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. '
NE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spirittialist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate." This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King-
dom. London: E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
O SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARK AS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Makch 6, 1874.
iii
SPIKITUALISM.
MRS. CORA L. y. T A P P A 1ST,
the celebrated AMEEIOAN INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER, will
deliver an ADDRESS, under the influence of her spirit guides, at the “ Ayre
Arms,” St. John’s-wood, on THURSDAY EVENING-, March 19th. Chair
will be taken at 8 o’clock by Dr. Sexton, M.A. Doors open at 7.39. Ad¬
mission, reserved seats 2s. 6d., second Is., back seats 6d. Tickets to be had
of Mrs. Maltby, 8, Hanover-place, Regent’s-park; Mr. Cowper, New
Church-street, Edgware-road; Mr.Maynard, 103, Lisson grove; Mr. Hooker,
Henry-street, St. John’s-wood; Mr. Whitley, 2, Wellington-terraceJBays-
water; of the Secretary, Mr. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-squarej; Mr.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row; and at the Doors on the Evening of the
Lecture.
'ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on eitlier Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “ City Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Cockburn-street, Edinburgh.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Robert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Cornwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please Write.
DR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
MRS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &e. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co,, Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no. mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
fly more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest compositi .n.’ —London Review, Feb. Ibth, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March 3d, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion,
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit ■
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—kpiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.’’—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp
ton-row, W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of tlie active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consohdation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist jjlewe'p&per.
TT10R SALE, PRICE £5, BREECHES’ BIBLE
JL (Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Illustrated with plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-strhet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Sven berg, Bishop Of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm, IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and do.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 6, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. GK Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., GK Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. "J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
' “ 8. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produped freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be_afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have ah the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tne best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Bead O#tf«.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials. •
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits tlie patronage of Owners of
JLV House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM 1
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
LL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
, under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”-—‘15
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbora Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.
