AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 132.—(Yol. VI.—No. 10.) LONDON: MARCH 5; 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
OTontentg.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXVIII. ...    L 109
The First Experiences of an Inquirer into Spiritualism :—Mr. Harri¬
son’s First Seance—Mrs. Mary Marshall’s Hediumship—A Table
Floating under Test Conditions—Direct Spirit Writing—John
King at Mrs. Marshall’s—Revelations from Beyond the Grave—
Spirit Lights and Spirit Hands—A Spirit Working off his Sins—
The Development of Writing Mediumship—The First Stages of
Mediumshio—Malicious Spirits—Spirit Identity—The Treatment
of Undeveloped Spirits—John King’s Advent at the Marshalls'—
Disturbances at a Public Seance      ...  Ill
Private Seances:—A Test Seance with Mr. Blackburn through the
Mediumship of Mr. Williams—Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gre¬
gory’s—The Mediumship of Miss Showers,—Suggestions for Test¬
ing the Spirits by the Use of Philosophical Apparatus—Spectators
Invited into the Cabinet—A Test Seance with Miss Showers—
Seance at Miss Douglas’s—A Good Test Seance with Mr. Williams,
Proving the Fact of Materialisation    " ... ... 115
Correspondence :—Spiritualism and Theological Dogmas — Healing
Mediumship in Liverpool—Scriptural Records of the Appearance
of the Spirits of the Departed—In the Cabinet with a Medium—
Organisation—The Wallace Testimonial—A Remarkable Test
Seance in Bristol     ... ■ 116
Strange Powers of Spirits of Sleeping Mortals:—Photographing
the Spirit of a Medium in Paris while his Body was Asleep in
London—An Austrian Officer gives War News to the Baroness
Vay during - the Sleep of his Body—A Dream Picture—A Mes¬
meric Sensitive Reading the Dreams of Another Sleeping Person.. 119
Paragraphs:—The Wallace Testimonial, 111; Anthropology, 115; The
National Association of Spiritualists, 115; An Irish Story, 115;
Spiritualism in the West of England, 118; Messrs. Bastian and
Taylor’s Mediumship, 118; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 120; Miss
Fay’s Mediumship, 120; The Brixton Psychological Society ...120
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENdUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Bly ton.
Mr. Thomas Bly ton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) .tThe collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a viewto a bettor understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
. In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dplston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
‘“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigat’on of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of wh&m copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Honrs, from 6.30 to lOjp m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub-
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hilJ, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors. .
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes. 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing fall particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent cost free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on.
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36,. Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
B
EVERIDGE AND
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Spiritualist
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
T3 EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1875,
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office -Beakers foe 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. "William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. "William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest’
E. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-i$poms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with'the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is., per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
. Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
IT IS INTENDED TO HOLD A
BAZAAR
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. ' Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to lyilliam Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Al&ernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave‘ Maria-lane-. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontanedusly, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6L, First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 1/2 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURAT I YE MESMERISM,
BY •
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
BaillIere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Centuby. Issued every, Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tqree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism,, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited bygeorge
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
Under the auspices of the Association, in the latter part of May, 1875.
The Association concluded at its last Council Meeting to take the
premises which have been offered to it at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
The object of the proposed Bazaar is to assist in meeting the very con¬
siderable expenses, which will be needful to furnish Library and Reading
Rooms, Seance Rooms, Council Room, &e.. thus providing a Central Estab¬
lishment, which it is hoped will be found of great value to both London
and Country Spiritualists, Members of the Association and others.
The idea has not received the formal sanction of the Association, but
will undoubtedly do so at the next meeting of the Council.
Contributions for the Bazaar are earnestly solicited to include
Useful and Ornamental Articles of all kinds,—Books, Photographs, En¬
gravings and Works of Art, Paintings, Drawings, Direct Writings, or any
“Spiritual” Curiosities from the treasures of private Mediums, would be
specially acceptable.
The promoters of the Bazaar are of opinion, that it would greatly con¬
tribute to its success, if it were understood, that the articles would be
marked at reasonable and not at exorbitant prices, at the opening of the
Bazaar,—that they would not'be disposed of at ridiculously low prices at
its close;—and also-that contributors who are inclined to do so, may send
a minimum price for any articles of value, at which if not sold, they shall
be re reserved for their own disposal.
On behalf of the (future) Bazaar Committee,
M. A. EVERITY,
Emily Kislingbury.
Further arrangements will be announced as soon as possible.
February, 1875.
GOSWELL HALL, . 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
tat 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
lias a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander AksakOF, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnbefger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, '2^d. Published on
the 15th of each month, b", the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
svP
<V
eJ/b
/ ^
t
VO^UjVIE ^IX. JNfUJVtBEFj TEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 8th? 1878.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may he longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to he addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Haria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “'The'Spiritualist” in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Kochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
.,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C, A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street..
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may bb
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the'English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
Jpl E M A L E MEDICAD SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXVIII.
I omit many communications that do not hear on the
[immediate points at issue. On Aug. 26, 1873, J had
been reading over previous communications, and had
thought much about the symbolic nature of spirit utterances.
I had wondered whether we erred in being too literal in
their interpretation. I put the question, and was told that
I was in no fit state for communing l I was told to refresh
myself. The day was rainy, dreary, and comfortless. I
ivas below par, and in a strange place. 1 did as I was
bid, and then it was written, at first with pain and slowly,
then more easily.
The conditions, though still unfavourable, are better.
You would be well advised to prepare yourself always,
both mentally and bodily, for communion. As we
have before said that we cannot operate when the body
is overloaded with food, so now we say, that a system
depressed and weak is not favourable for our purposes.
We do not advocate the depression of the vital powers
by neglect of due food any more than we countenance
gluttony and drunkenness. We preach the mean in all
things where it is knowable. Asceticism and self-
indulgence are the extremes which are evil in their
results. That is the mean for each which leaves the
bodily powers in perfect play whilst it leaves the mental
faculties unclouded and unexcited. A clear, active,
undepressed yet unexcited mind we ask for, and a body
whose powers are vigorous and neither in excess nor
defect of their capacity. Each man might do much by
the exercise of a judicious self-control, to render him¬
self better fitted both for his work on earth, and also
for receiving instruction from those who are sent to
minister to him. The habits of daily life are frequently ■
unwise, and lead to a diseased state of body and mind.
We lay down no rule beyond the general one of care
and moderation. We can only tell what suits individual
wants by being brought into personal contact. Each
must learn to settle for himself what is best for him.
It is part of our mission to teach the religion of the
body as well as of the soul. We proclaim to you, and
to all, that the due care of the body is an essential
prerequisite to the progress of the soul. So long
as spirit is- prisoned in the earth body through the
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St; John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for.the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-lifa
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar,to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1875.
avenues of which it finds its expression on the plane of
matter, it is essential that you care intelligently for that
body, lest it react on the spirit and affect it injuriously.
Yet it is only in rare cases that intelligent discrimina¬
tion is exercised with regard to food and clothing, and
the habits of life which have so great an effect on spirit.
The artificial state of existence which prevails, the
ignorance with respect to all or nearly all that influences
health,, the vicious habits of excess that are so nearly
universal, these are all bars and hindrances to true
spiritual life.
Touching the matters on which you question, we re¬
mind you that we have many times said that we take
the knowledge already existing in the mind, refine and
spiritualise it, and build upon it as a foundation, only
rejecting that which is noxious and untrue. We deal
with old opinions as Jesus dealt with the Jewish law.
He apparently abrogated the letter while He gave to the
spirit a newer and nobler meaning. We do the same
with the opinions and dogmas of modern Christianity as
He did with the dicta of the Mosaic law, and the glosses
of Pharisaical and Rabbinical orthodoxy. Even as He
proclaimed the truth, true for all ages, that the letter
might well be dispensed with, so that the spirit were
retained; so do wef in words drawn from your own
teachings, say to you that the letter kills, but the spirit
gives life. Rigid adherence to the strict letter of the
law is quite compatible with, nay usually leads to,
neglect of the true spirit. The man who begins by
observing scrupulously the minutim of the ritual law
ends by becoming the proud, arrogant, unlovely Phari¬
see, whose religion is swallowed up by his theology,
and who yet can thank God that he is not like other
men.
It is against this insidious form of religion that we
wage determined war. Better for each struggling
spirit that it should grope unaided after its God, trust¬
ing in the end to find Him, though after many wander¬
ings, than that it should be cramped and confined by
the trammels of an earth-born orthodoxy, which pre¬
scribes the God, as well as the way to reach Him—that
way being through a wicket of which it holds the only
key—which cramps all natural aspirations, drowns all
soaring thoughts, and condemns the free spirit to mere
mechanical action without a particle of true spiritual
religion in it. Better, we say, anything than this parody
on spiritual religion.
Some there are, and they not the noblest of your
race, for whom it is essential that deep subjects of
religion should be thought out ready to their hand.
Eor them free spiritual thought would mean doubt,
indecision, despair, death. They cannot, climb the
giddy heights where man must gaze into hidden mys¬
teries, and face the unclouded radiance of the Sun of
Truth. Not for them the pinnacles which overhang
precipices deep down in which lie hid the Eternal
Yerities. They cannot gaze lest they fall: they cannot
endure the ordeal: they must fall back on safer and
more beaten paths, where others have walked before,
even though the way be tortuous and uncertain. They
must be hemmed in between high walls over which
they dare nqt look. They must walk warily, picking
their way step by step, and avoiding all inequalities,
lest they stumble and fall. And so they fall back on
the prescribed dogmas of unyielding orthodoxy. So it
has been decided by the wisdom of the Church is the
answer of their priests. Doubt is ruin ; thought only
ends in bewilderment; faith is the only safety. Believe
and be saved. Believe not, and be damned. They are
not • able to receive these things. How should they ?
They have not yet grasped the fragments of truth that
lie on the very threshold of knowledge. How, then,
should they enter in and dwell in the penetralia where
truth is enshrined' in fulness.
Some there are who are not merely unable, but un¬
willing, to receive or entertain anything which mili¬
tates against that ancient and received theology which
which they have learned to consider as the embodiment
of Divine truth.
It has sufficed the needs of the saints of Christendom.
It has cheered the martyr at the stake, and consoled
the dying saint in ages long gone by even as now. It
was their fathers’ creed. It was the gospel of salvation
which they learned from a mother’s lips. It is that
which they have received as the deposit of the truth,
and which they are determined to teach their children,
that they in turn may hand on the truth whole and
undefiled. And so a feeling of heroic determination
comes over them that they will not even touch that
which seems to contravene this faith of theirs, conse¬
crated to them by so many associations, and endeared
by so many memories. They are, as they fancy,'de¬
fenders of the faith: and all a martyr’s zeal burns
within them. They cannot be reached by any influence
that we can bring to bear. Nor would we willingly
interfere with so comfortable a faith. Were we to make
the attempt, we should need to upset from the very
foundations the edifice they have reared. We should
need to make war on this faith which they love so well,
and hew it down with merciless axe. Their Immutable
God and their stereotyped religion, changeless and un¬
changeable, we should need to attack, and show that
though God changes not, yet the mind of man does, and
that what was sufficient for the past may be, and often
is, quite inadequate for the future. We must show
them—what they could never see—the progressive
march of revelation, the gradual enlightenment of man
in proportion to the freedom of his thought and the
enormous mass of purely human fiction which they
have dignified by the title of Divine Revelation. The
task would be vain : and we are not so foolish as to
attempt it. They must gain their knowledge in another
sphere of being.
Some, again, have never thought about the matter
at all. They have a sort of conventional idea about the
external profession of religion, because they cannot get
on well socially without it. But it is of the slenderest
make, and will go into very small compass when not
in use. It is indeed but the outside covering, which is
not intended for anything but show. So long as it
looks well from a distance, it serves the purpose for
which they use it. These and such as these are our
bitterest opponents. To force them to think about
religion is most irksome and annoying to them. The
subject is distasteful, tolerated only in its lightest form
from sheer necessity. It is the business of priests to
settle what is right, they take as much as is necessary
on trust. To force them not only to see the flaws in
the old faith, but to admire the excellencies in the new,
is a double aggravation, involving double trouble. They
will have none of it. They cling to the past, and live
in it. They are well as they are. Progress they hate.
Freedom they know nothing of save in that conven¬
tional sense in which it approaches very near to slavery.
Free thought to them means scepticism, doubt, atheism,
and these all are not respectable. They are social
March 5, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. Ill
“blunders. Progress means something which politically
and religiously is horrible to them. They not only
shrink from it, but they view it with loathing and con¬
tempt. The good old times enshrine their ideal; and
in the good old times such things were never heard of.
Hence they are manifestly wicked, and to be avoided.
It is, no doubt, plain to you that we have no dealings
with these three classes, and with the myriads who lie
between them, enclosed within the poles of inability
and unwillingness, or positive aversion. Hereafter you
will learn that it does -not rest with us to choose in the
matter. We cannot reach them even if we would.
We strive to inculcate on all that the way to know
God is open and free, and that the man who prefers
stagnation to progress is violating one of the first con¬
ditions of his being. We say that man has no right to
close the road to God, and to lock up the wicket, com¬
pelling all to pass through his door. We say again that
rigid orthodoxy, dogmatic faith prescribed in human
words, inflexible lines in which he who walks not is
therefore lost—these are human figments, bonds of
man’s making to tie down aspiring souls, and pin them
to earth. Better, we reiterate, for each struggling
spirit to wander forth with no guide but its appointed
angel, to pray for itself, to think for itself, to work for
itself till the day-dawn of truth rise upon it, than that
it should surrender its freedom and accept its religion
at the dictation of any, Par, far better that the
wanderings should be tortuous and long drawn out, and
the creed scant and little satisfying, better that the
cold winds should brace it, and the storms of heaven
beat upon it, than that it should be cramped within the
narrow, choking, airless avenue of human dogmatism,
gasping for breath, crying for bread, and fed only with
the stones of an ancient creed, the fossilized imaginings
of human ignorance. Better, far better that the
shallowest and crudest notions of the Great Pather
should come to His child direct from spirit to spirit, the
divine inbreathing of divine truth, than that he should
consent to receive the most elaborate theology which
fits and suits him not; and dream on in drowsy care¬
lessness through the probation life, only to awake to a
bitter consciousness of the falsity of that which he has
so heedlessly accepted. Honesty and fearlessness in the
search are the first prerequisites for finding truth.
Without these no spirit soars. With these none fail of
progress.
We have yet to show you more of this as exemplified
in the Life and Example of the Lord Jesus.
+ Impekator.
The Wallace Testimonial.—Mr. John Haxby has sent
us some particulars about the proposed testimonial to Mr.
Wallace, one of the oldest mediums in England, who is now
in poor circumstances, and needs aid. The testimonial was
first suggested by Mrs. Towns, a non-professional clairvoyant
and trance medium, who at a public meeting saw an empty
bag hanging over Mr. Wallace’s shoulder, and heard the
laconic command—“ Go and fill it!” A subscription list has
consequently been opened for his benefit, and the sum total
will be presented to him at a soiree to be held at the Co-opera¬
tive Hall, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street, on the 1st of April
next. The proceedings will commence with a tea-meeting,
each table being furnished and presided at by ladies who take
an interest in the testimonial. Mr. Bielfeld, of 208, Euston-
road, London, is treasurer to the fund, and Mr. Haxby informs
us that at a committee meeting held last Monday night
£3 14s. 6d. was paid in, in addition to the amount previously
received, but he does not state what that amount was. Mrs.
Towns reported to the committee that several friends had
announced their intention to aid in the musical part of the
entertainment.
THE FIRST EXPERIENCES OF AN INQUIRER INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
On Thursday, last week, at a meeting of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74,, Navarino-road,
Dalston, London, Captain J. James presided, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison read the following paper:—
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,—The title of the
paper which I have the honour of reading before you this
evening is of a somewhat personal nature, but as the spiritual
manifestations which I shall have to describe have never yet
been published, and extend over a large range of seances with
noted mediums, perhaps the personal feature may be over¬
looked, the more especially as I endeavour not to present facts
which I have observed to the public gaze, except on those
occasions when they are connected with subjects of public
interest. There will be little or nothing of argument in what
I have to say to you this evening, consequently not much which
will tend to elicit discussion. Facts are the stones with which
wisdom builds, and facts chiefly will be brought under your
notice, for as yet in this movement our facts are all too few,
and so far as they go, do not warrant the whole of the
religious and scientific teachings, which are sometimes put
forth from our own platforms in the name of Spiritualism. The
honest hard work of collecting facts, which, to dreamy and
uneducated minds, is so uninteresting, must go on for years yet
in our midst, before we can become the possessors of a broad and
reliable philosophy.
Most of my early experiences in Spiritualism took place at
Fleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent, the residence of Mr.
Cromwell Varley, the Atlantic cable electrician, and without
his consent I had no right to give to the public facts which
were observed under his roof and among the members of his
family. That consent he has given to me in order that this
paper may be read here to-night.
The first I ever heard of Spiritualism was from the Bev. T.
G. Stamper of Haverfordwest, who frequently told me of his
belief in mesmerism, and once narrated to me the contents of
some circular or pamphlet be had received from Mr. S. C.
Hall about table manifestations. I ridiculed the idea of solid
objects moving contrary to the law of gravitation, and Mr.
Stamper seemed to have come to the same conclusion. This
was ten or twelve years ago. Afterwards I saw paragraphs
at rare intervals in newspapers, attacking the impostors who
made their dupes believe that “ the spirits of the just made
perfect” spent their leisure time in rapping on furniture, and
I thought the editors of those journals were tp be commended
for their conduct.
I was first brought directly into contact with Spiritualists
at a lecture on Spiritualism, delivered by Mr. D. D. Home, at
Willis’s Booms, St. James’s, London, in the year 1867. I
went there to report that lecture for a daily newspaper, and,
on receiving the ticket, wondered that Mr. Willis should let his
rooms for such a purpose. I expected to find a thin audience
of simple-looking people, with retreating foreheads, and their
mouths wide open, listening to a villainous-looking speaker.
The refined and superior-looking body of listeners was a sur¬
prise to other strangers as well as myself, and I remember
that the Morning Star next day published a comment record¬
ing this impression. A Spiritualist sitting next to me at that
lecture told me that the daily newspapers did not give Spirit¬
ualism fair play, and I remember shrugging my shoulders and
discontinuing the conversation, in the belief that the subject
was beneath contempt. I have often tried to remember who
that Spiritualist was, and to this day am not quite sure on
the point, but think that it was Mr. Thomas Shorter, the late
editor of The Spiritual Magazine. The effect of that lecture
upon the minds of the strangers present was simply to puzzle
them. There was nothing on it to fit in to the previous ex¬
periences of unbelievers. Had a little philosophy been mixed
with it, to the effect that the theory was that the human body
gave off certain imponderable elements visible to spirits, and
which they could use in producing the manifestations, a rude
kind of connecting link between the known and the unknown
would have been furnished. Probably it is a general mistake,
in lecturing to the outside public on Spiritualism, to feed
them too much with wonders, and too little with points of
contact with their previous knowledge. A few days after the
lecture had been delivered, I had forgotten all about the
subject.
The next I heard of Spiritualism was at Gresham House,
Old Broad-street, where I went one morning to see the secre¬
tary, the electrician, and the engineer to the North Atlantic
Telegraph Company, who had arranged to give me particulars
112
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1875.
relating to their undertakings for publication in the Engineer
newspaper. The Great Eastern steamship was at that time at
sea, attempting to lay one of the early Atlantic cables, and
they told me that Mr. Yarley and some of the other electricians
on board were*Spiritualists. This assertion startled'me, for I
knew Mr, Yarley, who, however, had up to that time never
mooted any of his religious opinions to me; but I felt that
if the statement about his belief in Spiritualism were true, the
subject was a serious one. Consequently, after the return of
the Great Eastern, when I met him one evening in the library
of the Royal Institution, I asked him, “ Is it true that you
believe in Spiritualism ?” He said that he did, and invited
me to a seance at his house on the following Wednesday, which
seance, however, I was unable to attend. A few days later we
were travelling together down the London, Chatham, and
Dover Railway, and he told me a great deal about his experi¬
ences in Spiritualism, about the movement of solid objects,
about raps, about the occasional appearance of spirits, about
clairvoyance, and about Mrs. Yarley’s mediumship, until I
scarcely knew whether I was on my head or my heels. I knew
him to be truthful, but that the things which he related were
impossible, the result being general confusion of mind.
MB. HABBISON’S FIBST SEANCE.
The first seance I ever attended, took place on Sunday, May
24th, 1868, at Fleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent, the resi¬
dence of Mr, Yarley. It was about four o’clock in the after¬
noon. Mr. Yarley and myself were talking in the library
about one of his new inventions, when he suggested a seance,
to which I readily agreed; he .accordingly asked Mrs. Varley
and two of his nephews to join us. We sat round a small
table, and had our hands upon it for about twenty minutes
without any manifestations, when it was suggested that the
circle should be broken up, but Mrs. Yarley remarked, “ We
had better wait another ten minutes.” After the lapse of
another five minutes, the table began to tilt, when the alphabet
was called over. The first sentence spelt out, and the first
message I ever received was—“ We are glad you are trying to
investigate this power.” The next sentence was—■, “Weare
not used to this circle yet.”' Mr. Yarley asked—“ Can youlift
the table off the ground to satisfy Mr. Harrison ?” The reply
was—“ No, he ought to be satisfied, but we will try to show
you some more.” At the close of the seance, they inclined the
table more and more, and at last laid it down on the floor ;
then it moved along the floor to the fire-place, our hands,
however, touching it; then it tried to lift itself up, and did so
after several ineffectual attempts, without our hands having
anything to do with such vigorous movements, so far as I
could see. Mr, Yarley remarked that it was an unusual thing
for such strong physical phenomena to be seen at all in his
house, Mrs. Yarley having but feeble power as a physical
medium, her gifts being chiefly trance and clairvoyance.
I was puzzled by this first seance. Although perhaps
nothing took place which might not have been done artificially
by any skilful person, that way out of the difficulty was out of
the question in this instance, from the character of the sitters.
The next day I wrote out a fall account of the seance and sent
it to Professor Tyndall, who accepted my statements, and
criticised what took place at this and subsequent, seances in a
fair spirit, but as the correspondence was private, I have no
right to make known the contents thereof. That same week,
after I had taken a little time to consider the matter, I had
framed in my own mind a kind of psychic force theory as one
which might possibly invalidate the spiritual hypothesis, so I
called upon the editor of The Engineer newspaper, told him
all that had taken place at Beckenham, and asked him to
write some question upon a piece of paper, without telling me
the answer. I would put the question to \ the spirits at the
next seance, and if they gave the right reply, it would be clear
proof that some intelligence was there, not that of the medium
or any member of the circle. I did not see then, as I do now,
that this test assumed spirits to possess almighty powers and
to know everything; neither did I then know that the thoughts
of the niembers of the circle, more especially those of the
medium, have an influence on the contents of many spirit
messages. At the next seance, held at the same place with the
same sitters, on Sunday, May 31st, I mentally put the question,
“What is the name of the sister-in-law of the editor of The
Engineer ? ” A name was given, but as I afterwards ascertained,
it was the wrong name, though it was a little curious that a
person’s name should have been given at all. At this seance,
I first saw writing mediumship. Messages were written out
backwards and bottom upwards through Mrs. Varley’s hand,
while she was looking at me and talking.
At the close of this seance, Mr. Yarley again remarked that
Mrs. Yarley was not a physical medium, and that I ought to
see manifestations through somebody who possessed more
power in that direction. He recommended me to go to a
seance with Mrs. Mary Marshall, the younger, who then
resided at 13, Bristol-gardens, Maida Yale, Paddington, and
Mrs. Varley made an appointment to meet me there on the
afternoon of Friday, January 5th. When we arrived, young
Mrs. Marshall was ill; her husband and the elder Mrs.
Marshall gave us a seance, at which we had some table tiltings,
and a few raps, but nothing remarkable took place. We left,
looking upon it as a decided failure, but I resolved to attend
again at a future time when the stronger medium could be
present.
On Thursday, June 25th, 1868, I had my fourth seance. It
took place at the house of a scientific man, living at Wood-
green ; there was no developed medium present, and we
obtained no manifestations.
MBS. MABY MABSHALL’S MEBITJMSHIP.
Next day, June 26th, I again went to Mrs. Marshall’s, at
two o’clock of the afternoon, and on this occasion met young
Mrs. Marshall for the first time. I asked if she would let me
examine the tables before the seance began. She replied,
“ Yes, of course I will,” and pulled the tablecloth off the large
table. It was a round table, six or seven feet in diameter.
I went underneath, unscrewed the upper portion, then rolled
off the top like a wheel, and examined the pedestal upon
which it had been standing, to see if anything passed from
the pedestal to the top of the table, for at that time I had
a notion that good raps might be made by the aid of electro¬
magnetic apparatus, and I wanted to find out how the wires
from the battery passed up the stem into the woodwork of the
table ; however, I found nothing, and observed that the floor
was carpeted, and that I could place the table on any part of
the carpet I pleased. Next I examined the small table, which
had a top about a yard in diameter, made of an honest piece
of solid mahogany, and no veneering, wherefore I requested
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall to sit with me at the small table, and
not at the large one. I took out my note-book and pencil, and
placed them on the table, round which we then sat with our
six hands on its surface. Sunlight was streaming in through
the two large windows in the room, so no fault could be found
with the amount of illumination.
A TABLE FLOATING TJNDEB TEST CONDITIONS.
We had no sooner taken our seats than the table gave a
jump, and sent my note-book and pencil flying over my
shoulder. The table then lay down on one side, till its edge
touched the ground; it jumped up again ; then lay down on
the other side; after which it began to rotate upon its vertical
axis, and to travel about the room,, jumping now and then.
This was startling; I could not see that our hands were
doing it, but I asked Mrs. Marshall whether it was necessary
that our hands should touch the table at all. She replied—
“ Yes, to let the electricity go through, but the slightest touch
will do.” I did not quarrel with her about the word “ elec¬
tricity,” but suggested that we should each of us touch the
table with the tip of the middle finger only of each hand,
bending up all the other fingers, so that they should be well
clear of its surface. We did so ; nothing but the points of
our six fingers touched the top of the table, yet it was travel¬
ling about the room, occasionally jumping off the floor, in as
lively a manner as ever, we walking with it. I then bent
down, so as to see under the table, and asked Mrs. Marshall if
she would be kind enough to keep her dress clear of its legs,
which she did. Then I suggested that we should all stand as
far away from the table as we could, so that we had to bend
over and stretch out our hands, in order that the points of our
six fingers might remain .in contact with its upper surface.
We did so, and I again bent down to see if anything was
touching the table underneath. Then I remarked—“ Now I
am quite satisfied that nothing is touching the table except
the tips of our six fingers.” Directly I said this, the table
rose off the ground slowly to a height of about eighteen
inches. Then it fell from our fingers and was dashed down
on to the floor, so that one of its paws was broken off at a
place where the solid wood was two or three inches thick ;
then the'table turned itself bottom upwards, and stood rocking
upon one of its edges, with its broken foot moving up and
down close before my face, as I stood with my hands on my
knees looking at it. “ There,” said Mrs. Marshall, “ they are
showing you the broken leg!” Then the table turned over
again by itself, and set itself nearly upright, but not quite,
March 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
113
because, having lost its foot, it could no longer stand level.
After it regained its perpendicular position, it continued to
move about the floor with great violence, our hands again
touching it. I sat down in a chair, and remarked—“Well,
Mrs. Marshall, I am quite sure that not one of us did
that.” This acknowledgment seemed to please her, since, as
we all know now, it is not everybody who will admit the
physical facts of Spiritualism, even when they see them with
their own eyes.
DIEECT SPIEIT WBITING.
We resumed our seats at the table. At this moment Mrs.
Varley came in and joined the circle. Mrs. Marshall told me
to put a sheet of paper and a pencil under the table, in order
that the spirits might give us some direct writing, and she
told me that I must not look at the paper while they were
doing it, which order seemed to me then to be rather peculiar.
All our hands were on the top of the table. I heard a scratch
on the paper near my feet, then the table by tilts signalled out
“ Mend the pencil.” I picked it up, and found that one broad
line had been drawn half across the paper, and that then the
point of the pencil had broken. Another point was cut, the
paper and pencil were placed under the table again, scratching
noises began upon the paper immediately, and lasted for about
a minute, when the table began to jump about, which Mrs.
Marshall said was a signal that they had finished the writing.
I picked up the paper, and found 4 ‘ God bless you ” written
upon it. The table next told me that I was a medium, in
which it seems to have made a mistake, for I have never been
able to obtain any manifestations from that day to this. While
we were sitting round the table I heard a lumbering noise be¬
hind me, and on looking round saw the great six-foot table
running up to us all by itself; after taking a run of about four
feet, it rested with its edge against the edge of the little table
round which we were sitting.
JOHN KING AT MBS. HABSHALL’S.
Mrs. Marshall then proposed that we should go into the
dark room, where the spirits would talk to us with their own
voices. This suggestion was all news to me; I had read para¬
graphs in the newspapers about the spirit-rapping and table-
tilting impostors, but had never heard till that minute any¬
thing about spirits talking with their own voices, so this pro¬
position was rather a startling one. We went into the dark
room, taking a lamp with us, and at the request of Mrs. Mar¬
shall I examined the cupboards; the rpdm was nearly empty,
there was nothing in it but a table, a few chairs, and some
musical instruments—which I casually examined—on the top
of the table. Mr. and Mrs. Marshall sat on one side of the
table, Mrs. Yarley and myself on the other, and the light was
put out. A great bang, which might have been heard in the
street, then came upon the table, which noise the Marshalls
said was the sign John King usually gave of his presence;
then the guitar rose from the table and began to play over our
heads; it went round the heads of Mrs. Varley and myself
with great velocity, describing a course of the shape of the
figure 8 in so doing, and playing all the time ; it also banged
against the walls or ceiling when desired. Next it floated
under my chair, then came up again and tapped me lightly on
the eyebrows, head, and face as it passed and repassed me in
its bat-like flight. At dark seances musical instruments very
rarely pass under the chairs of persons placed at a distance
from the medium; I suppose that they were able to do it in
this instance in consequence of the presence of Mrs. Yarley
adding to the power.
BEVELATIONS FBOM BEYOND THE GBAVE.
The first remarks I ever heard in the direct voice from the
spirits of the departed, from the loved ones gone before, was
a bad pun. John King exclaimed—■“ Harrison, don’t be har-
rassed.” This remark was rather disappointing to one who sup¬
posed that spirits were a kind of archangels, and I suppose my
feelings exhibited themselves in my face, for John King next
remarked, “ You ought to look upon Spiritualism as a jolly
thing. I’m jolly enough 1 Look here, now ! I’ll sing you a
song of iny own composition—
‘ I wish I had a bird,
I would stick it on a spit—”
and so on; I cannot remember the rest of the doggerel. I
asked John King, “ who he was,” as I did not remember the
name to be that of any departed relative of mine. He replied
that he was a Welshman, a native of Carmarthen. I asked
him, “ Do you know the Picton monument there ? ” in order
to find out something about his local knowledge. He replied,
‘‘Yes, do you like it?” I answered, “No, I do not like
obelisks.” John King said, “ No more do I. A statue, now,
would be more in your way, wouldn’t it ? ” And thus ended
this instructive dialogue.
SPIBIT LIGHTS AND SPIBIT HANDS.
Next some spirit lights were seen; they were about eighteen
inches long, and as large as a shilling at one end, tapering off
to a fine tail at the other; some of them were straight, and
some were curved, but all of them in rapid motion.
“ Katie” then came and said a few words, after which I
remarked to John King—“ Do you speak to me by moving the
air outside of my ear in the usual way ?” for I wanted to know
whether I was biologised, and imagined that I heard voices.
John King replied, “ Of course I do. I will blow upon your
face now.” Then his breath, beautifully scented, came down
upon my face. After this I was stroked down the face, and
felt spirit hands for the first time.
A SPIBIT WOBKING OFF HIS SINS.
On Monday, June 29th, 1868,1 attended another seance at
Mrs. Marshall’s, with Mrs. Varley and one of Mr. Yarley’a
nephews. We had a dark seance, and the spirits devoted most
of their attention to Mr. Yarley’s nephew, perhaps because he
was a new inquirer; they gave him advice about his health,
told him what mode of treatment to adopt, recommended
regular baths, and told him to take a small bottle of stout
every day at dinner. I asked John King “What stout?” and
he said, “ Guinness’s.” The patient laid hold of a roll of
paper which John King was using as a speaking tube; John
King seized another, and began to fence with it; I could hear
the noise of the two tubes striking against each other. Soon
John King gave a vigorous pull at the tube held by Mr. Varley’s
nephew, and took possession of it; then proceeded to rumple his
hair by violently rubbing the tubes over his head, remarking,
“ This is hair-brushing by machinery.”
I asked John King why his manifestations could not take
place in the light. He replied,Why cannot you finish a
photograph without shutting off white light?” I suppose he
saw by my face that I was not particularly pleased, in conse¬
quence of my preconceived notions making me think that the
spirits of the departed might have something better to talk
about than “ bottled stout” and hair-brushing by machinery,”
for he turned round and said quite unsolicited, “ Look here,
Harrison! I have been put to do this work of convincing
mortals for a certain number of years to work out my own
salvation, and as I have to do it I think it is well to make
myself jolly over it.” He then began to whistle in a devil-
may-care kind of way. Afterwards he made some remarks
showing that he knew I had to do with newspapers ; he asked
me to promise him to speak well of him when I had the
chance, and not to say anything bad about John King. I re¬
plied that I knew nothing against him, and had no wish to say
any harm about him. I put several mental questions to the
spirits at this seance. They could not answer them, and were
evidently unable to read my thoughts. Scent was then thrown
upon us from above. Mrs. Marshall remarked that John King
had often told her that spirits who bring scent to dark circles
carry it in their mouths. She also told me that spirits some¬
times brought fruits to seances when fruits were asked for by
the sitters. I remarked, “ Then I should like to ask for some
tropical fruit, not to be found on this side of the globe.”
John King replied, “ So you mayupon which I said,
“Thank youwhereupon John King added, “But you won’t
get it!” When the spirits said good-bye to us at the close of
the sitting their voices were heard gradually dying away, high
in the air, as if they were passing through the ceiling. In¬
deed most of Mrs. Marshall’s dark seances closed with a series
of muffled raps upon the ceiling.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF WEITING MEDIUMSHIP.
By this time my friends and acquaintances had begun to
make jocular remarks to me about my holding converse with
spirits, and being taken in by the spirit-rappers, one intimate
friend remarking, “ If you go on at this rate you will be what
Artemus Ward calls a ‘ sweet mejum’ in a few days.”
On the 3rd July, 1868,1 went to Chatham Dockyard to get
up a description of the Dockyard Extension Works there for
the Daily Telegraph. In my absence, the friend who made
the remark just quoted called to see me, and finding me from
home sat by himself in the front parlour, to see if he could
get any manifestations; he placed his hand upon a chair for
ten minutes, but it did not move. He next took a pencil in
his hand, and held it over a sheet of paper. After the lapse
of about seven minutes, he was surprised to see his hand
scribbling over the paper, and wondered whether his own
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1875.
brain were not causing him to do it unconsciously. His hand
wrote out “ You will prove a medium; do not fear the spirits.”
He said that a feeling of fear then crept over him, and he
almost resolved to throw away the pencil; but he did not do
so, and he asked mentally, “ Is Spiritualism from G-od or from
the Devil?” The reply through his hand was “From God.”
Afterwards it was written, “ You will seek us again to-morrow,
yet remember what the spirits have done for you, and be not
afraid.”
THE EIEST STAGES OF MEDIUMSHIP.
I knew nothing about this seance until the next evening,
when he told me about it with a serious face and produced the
writings. That evening we tried for more writing manifesta¬
tions through him, when his grandfather and grandmother,
my father, a schoolfellow of ours who was drowned in the
river Lea, and a departed friend of his mother, all professed in
turn to communicate. The handwriting was changed as each
spirit came, and the names of these people were not in his
mind until after they had been written. The messages and
the writing should be examined in the light of present expe¬
rience, to see whether they furnish good proofs of spirit
identity. It has been the experience of Dr. Maurice Davies
and of several others, that the best proofs of spirit identity
have been obtained just at the outbreak of mediumship, whilst
perplexities have crept in at a later stage. If this experience
should prove to be general, does the fact arise from the medium
and sitters being in a more receptive state at that time; or is
it that the natural guardians of the medium can then commu¬
nicate, but are sometimes driven off at later stages by lower
and more earth-bound spirits, who eagerly avail themselves of
the opportunity of communicating when they see a channel
opened ? At the seance now under notice we asked the spirits
if they would carry a message to Mr. Yarley, to the effect that
we wanted to talk to him about Spiritualism before he went to
Switzerland, and the spirits promised that they would carry
the message.
On the 10th and 17th of July, 1868,1 sat at a developing
circle among private friends at Wood-green, but no manifesta¬
tions were obtained.
MALICIOUS SPIBITS.
On Saturday, July 18th, my medial friend and myself
called upon the editor of The British Journal of Photography,
at Covent-garden, to triumphantly prove to him that we had
acquired the power of communicating with the spirit-world.
An experimental trial was then and there made, and the com¬
municating spirit began by telling Mr. Taylor, the editor,
“ that he had disease of the heart, but did not know it.” Mr.
Taylor explained that this comforting intelligence was all
news to him, and asked the spirit to tell him the name
of his family doctor, upon which the spirit replied,
“ Martin.” Mr. Taylor said that this was not true,
upon which the spirit told us not to believe Mr. Taylor,
for he was a deceitful man. The communications were evi¬
dently malicious. These disagreeable experiences among three
persons who certainly wanted nothing but truth was a heavy
blow, so that evening we asked the communicating intelli¬
gences the cause of the bad messages in the afternoon. The
answer was—“ You may judge for yourselves. This is but
malice in spirits who are imperfect, but be not discouraged by
what they say.” The spirit then claimed to be a schoolfellow
of ours who had been drowned through the upsetting of a
boat. We said to him—“ How shall we know when bad spirits
are about ?” He replied—“ You will feel sleepy.” We asked
—“How can we do you good?” The reply was—li By being
good yourselves. You will have a visit from Mr. Varley to¬
morrow.” “ Has he had our message ?” “ Yes he has.” “ Then
why does he not answer it ?” “ Because he intends to come
himself.”
The spirit then, at our request, did some drawings while the
eyes of the medium were averted from the paper, for he wanted
to make quite sure that the effects were not produced by the
unconscious action of a part of his brain. The drawings con¬
sisted of a locomotive, a swallow, and a landscape. All of
them were drawn in one continuous line, the pencil never
being removed from the paper from the moment it first
touched it. The acting intelligences apparently required the
use of the medium’s eyes, for the stoker was drawn out of
proportion, with his feet through the bottom of the tender,
and resting upon the rails.
On Monday, July 20th, 1868, we again tried for writing
manifestations, and different kinds of handwriting were given
through the medium; this I now take to be evidence that
different spirits were communicating, because when we after¬
wards discovered that one spirit was almost always with the
medium, and gave us a great deal of trouble, we found that
the handwriting and the manner of control of that spirit were
always the same. We asked who was the spirit who gave the
malicious message at Mr. Taylor’s bn Saturday, and received
in reply the following statement:—“ He was a bad man, and
told lies.” He also said, “ that a spirit of the name of Robert
Nash was present, who had been dead about five years, and
who was four years old when he left earth.” When quite a
child I had a schoolfellow named William Nash, but whether
he had a brother of the name of Robert I do not know, and
have no means of ascertaining. We asked the spirit, “ Why
did not Mr. Yarley call yesterday ?” “ He met his father.”
Why did we have such malicious communications on Satur¬
day ?” “ Because the place was bad.”
A day or two afterwards I met Mr. Yarley, who said that no
messages had been delivered to him by the spirits, and that he
did not meet his father on Saturday; on the contrary, he was
at Dover. We accordingly taxed the spirit with making un¬
truthful statements, upon which he began to abuse us, calling
us “ fools and asses.”
In spite of these discouragements we resolved to investigate
farther.
SPIBIT IDENTITY.
On Saturday, July 25th, 1868, a remarkable seance took
place, which tended to atone for our previous discouragements.
The communicating spirit said, “ I was with you on Friday;
but a spirit I did not like was in my place: this is truth that I
tell you.” The spirit then claimed to be my father, upon
which I asked him to prove it, for I had passed into a state of
mind in which I was prepared to believe no more than I
could help. I asked him to tell me something about his
affairs which I did not know, and which could be afterwards
proved to be true. He replied, “ The man who threw half a
brick at me is.dead.” Who was he? 11 Henry Minter. Much
depends upon your assiduity in trying the spirits many times.”
“ I wish to come into communication with higher spirits than
myself.” “ You will in timeif you persevere; youshould trustin
God. There are good and bad spirits; but if you search out truth in
the right way, all will be well with you. I made many mis¬
takes in my lifetime ; I several times doubted the existence of
God, but I know better now.” Are you really my father ? “ Ask
Fanny if what I have said is not right; make haste ! The power
will soon be gone. Make haste ! You must not rest.” Here
the writing slowly died away, and the power was gone.
I afterwards ascertained that many years previously a brick,
thrown by a man passing through the street, had come in
through the window, and narrowly missed my father’s head.
No doubt it was thrown by accident; it was never known by
whom. The expression “ Fanny ” was one we had never heard
applied to my aunt since my father’s death ; but he invariably
called her by her Christian name. This is one of the best
proofs of spirit-identity I have ever had ; in fact, I have never
had more than two altogether.
THE TBEATMENT OF UNDEVELOPED SPIBITS.
On Sunday, 26th July, the spirit came who had furnished
us with malicious messages. He said that he was without
malice, and would go away if we liked; he also asked us to
think well of him.
I may here remark that we reasoned with him and treated
him kindly, which Spiritualists had told uS we ought to do
when visited by undeveloped spirits ; but this plan failed most
signally; he gained more and more power over the medium,
became more and more untruthful, was not amenable to kind
treatment, and at last my friend was obliged to break off his
mediumship altogether to get rid of him, after many months
of patient forbearance.
JOHN KING’S ADVENT AT THE MABSHALLS’.
On Tuesday, July 28th, 1868, I was at a public seance at
Mrs. Marshall’s, when the spirits calling themselves John
King, Katie King, and Roger Bacon communicated. I then
first noticed that the spirit voices decreased in power as the
distance from the medium increased, but that musical instru¬
ments could be carried at a greater distance from the medium
than the vocal organs of the spirits. Diagrams in my note-book
illustrate these circumstances. Mr. Marshall told me that he
had only known John King about ten months. He and his
wife first discovered that they were mediums by obtaining
table-tiltings, which frightened them at first, after which the
power gradually developed, but it was about three years before
it became strong. Thus John King first came to the Marshalls
March 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
towards the close of 1867. He introdaced himself to the
Davenports in 1853.
At the request of the spirits at Mrs. Marshall’s, a seance
was held through Mrs. Yarley’s mediumship at Mr. Varley’s
house, at Beckenham, on Sunday, August 2nd, 1868, and
violent physical manifestations were obtained, tending to
prove that the spirits really had come there from the
Marshalls’ as they said they would. They told us to sit again
on the following day, which we did; some unpleasant messages
were obtained and we broke up the seance.
DISTURBANCES AT A PUBLIC SEANCE.
On Tuesday evening, August 4th, there was a public seance
at Mrs. Marshall’s, at which sixteen or twenty persons were
present, including an unbelieving photographer. At the dark
seance, when the guitar began to float he thought that it was
attached to wires, so he seized it and hurled it across the
room, raising a bruise on the arm of Mrs. Varley. John King
shouted, “ Mr. threw that." The culprit was not known
until his name was thus given by the spirits. This raised ap
outcry against him, so he called John King a “ lying spirit; ”
he afterwards continued to interrupt the seance with strong
remarks and speeches, until John King said, “ Mr.   has
got hold of the guitar." Then there was another outcry, and
the offender was unanimously requested to leave the room,
which he did. Later on John King said, “ I cannot come close
to you people at the f urther end of the room, "because Mr. 
is sitting close to the wall in the next room, fretting and fuming
fit to burst."
(To be continued.)
The Daily Telegraph and Echo of last Monday reprinted
from The Spiritualist the circumstances regarding the relation¬
ship of Longfellow, the poet, to Spiritualism.
Anthropology—Next Tuesday at seven o’clock, there
will be a general meeting of the Anthropological Institute, at
4, St. Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, to consider the ques¬
tion of the admission of ladies to the meetings of the society,
and to consider whether an application shall be made to the
Board of Trade for a license to the Institute, under section 23
of the Companies Act of 1867.
The National Association oe Spiritualists.—Next
Monday evening, the ordinary monthly meeting of the
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists will be
held at 6.30 p.m., and among subjects to be considered will be
that of offices, the appointment of a permanent secretary, and
the registration of the Association. The members of the
offices committee will meet at 6 p.m.
The following ladies and gentlemen were among those
present at the reading of Mr. Harrison’s paper before the
Dalston Association:—Capt. John James, in the chair, Mrs. and
Miss Showers, Miss H. Tapping, Mrs. Walton, Mr. G. H. Potts,
Mr. John Gandin, Master Donald Cook, Mr. Henry Cook, Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Miss Carrie Corner, Miss Nina Corner, Mrs. Blyton, Miss
Hannah Blyton, Miss E. Blyton, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R.
P. Matthews, Mr. Alexander MacMoeran, Mr. and Mrs. F. W.
Parkes, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. and Mrs. Towns, Mr. A. Ferguson
Black, Mr. George W. Forbes Playfair, Mr. A. J. Urquhart,
and Miss Evans.
An Irish Story.—The Irish Times of Feb. 25th has a
rabid leading article abusing Spiritualism, and containing the
following story:—It seems that it is the habit of the San
Franciscan Spiritualists to sing at their seances—to produce
the necessary degree of fervour, they say themselves—to cover
the noise made by certain manipulations, say the sceptics. On
the night when the Indian first made his appearance, the com¬
pany were in the middle of a resonant chorus, when the pro¬
ceedings were suddenly interrupted by a startling catastrophe.
A loud crash was heard, followed by the descent of a heavy
body into the midst of the circle, overturning and bruising
several of the believers. There was a general stampede for the
door, and many of the audience were so mortally terrified that
they did not recover breath or presence of mind until they
found themselves safe in the bosoms of their families. A few
strong-minded persons remained, however. A light was
brought, and the spirit of the young Indian warrior was found
prostrate on the floor, in a perfectly substantialized condition,
and bleeding profusely from the nose. A large hole in the
ceiling explained the whole transaction. The proceedings ter¬
minated by the appearance of the medium, who issued from
his mysterious cabinet with a most chap-fallen expression on
his features, and remarked reproachfully to the prone red¬
skin, “What made you step between the joists ; this has just
bust the whole business I ”
PRIVATE SEANCES.
A TEST SEANCE WITH MR. BLACKBURN THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP
OE MR. WILLIAMS.
Last Friday week at a seance held at 61, Lambs Conduit-
street, Holborn, London, through the mediumship of Mr. C. E.
Williams, Mr. C. Blackburn, with two of his friends from Man¬
chester, also Mr. W. H. Harrison, were present. Mr. Black¬
burn passed a loop of very strong thread over the head of Mr.
Williams, then tied it with a double knot round the neck of
the medium, so that there was no possibility of the thread
slipping over his head, and when Mr. Williams entered the
cabinet Mr. Blackburn brought the two long ends of the thread
out through the cabinet window, and tied them to a nail very
low down outside the cabinet, and altogether beyond the reach
of the medium, who was further tied to his seat in the cabinet
by a Manchester gentleman. A dark seance was then held, the
observers seating themselves round the table outside the
cabinet, and holding each other’s hands. The usual dark
circle manifestations were obtained, instruments floating
round over the heads of all the sitters, and touching them
in turn. A large spirit-light was seen over the table,
as if John King were trying to show himself, but he did not.
When the seance was over, Mr Williams was found tied as at
first. Mr. Blackburn cut the thread round his neck, and took
the thread with its knots away in his pocket. When the
seance began the thread had been passed over the lower corner
of the window furthest from the door of the cabinet; after
the seance was over, it was found passing over the lower comer
of the window nearest the door of the cabinet, as if at some
time during the sitting the spirits had drawn Mr. Williams’s
body nearer to the door, so that it' should be nearer the place
where they produced the manifestations. But the thread,
when stretched to its utmost length, would not permit the
head of Mr. Williams to come outside the cabinet door.
SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S—THE MEDIUMSHIP OE
MISS SHOWERS—SUGGESTIONS FOR TESTING THE SPIRITS BY THE
USE OF PHILOSOPHICAL APPARATUS—SPECTATORS INVITED INTO
THE CABINET.
Last Saturday night a private seance was held at the house
of Mrs. Makdougali Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, Miss Showers being the medium. Among the
guests present were Lady Clara Rayleigh, Mrs. Wiseman, the
Hon. Richard Strutt, Mrs. Showers, General Brewster, Miss
Kislingbury, Mr. Haggard, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. G. Suther¬
land, Mr. Edwin Arnold, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Mr. Har¬
rison thus describes the seance—" The manifestations were of
the usual kind, and have been so often described as to leave little
of novelty to publish about them. But it may be useful to call
attention to the circumstance that the hands of Florence and
Lenore, when they first came out of the cabinet, were remarked
by several of the visitors who felt them to be markedly cold; for a
long time I have observed this to be the case at materialisation
seances, but as each seance goes on, the hands gradually grow
warmer. It would be well if all spectators would concentrate
their attention on this point to see whether such is unvari-
ably the case, because if so, the fact will tend to protect
genuine mediums for these manifestations from much annoy¬
ance. Messrs. Yarley, Crookes, and others, have demon¬
strated either by galvanometric experiments, or by personal
observation, that the forms are mediums sometimes dupli¬
cated, just as spirit hands at seanees have long been known
to be usually the duplicates of those of the medium, although
separate from the body of the medium for the time being. On
the other hand Dr. Storer, of Boston, and others, have proved
that, on certain occasions, mediums for materialised spirit
forms have been secured in the most complete manner—such
as by sewing their clothes together, placing gloves on their
hands and sewing the gloves to their sleeves—yet the en¬
tranced and unconscious mediums have been liberated and
shown as spirits, but at the end of the seances have been found
secured as at first, thus proving them to be instruments
in the hands of some power infinitely greater than
their own. But if it be a fact that in either of these
cases, the spirits, before beginning to work, draw vitality from
the medium, so as to reduce the temperature of his
body, this sudden diminution of the amount of heat
is an ample guarantee to the spectators of the integrity of the
medium, because any person who wished to imitate the
manifestations could not reduce the temperature of his body to
an abnormal coldness at will; on the contrary, his preliminary
exertions would make him hotter. Apart from the protection
it may prove to mediums, to concentrate attention upon this
116 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 5, 1875.
point, a newly observed fact of this kind has its interest in a
scientific point of view, and I think that it would be good
work done, to register the temperature of the bodies of power¬
ful physical mediums from minute to minute throughout
whole seances. Vitality is drawn from them in gusts, and it
may be that at those periods the temperature of their bodies is
reduced, or it may be that the changes of temperature are
more gradual. An ordinary thermometer would be of little
use to measure these changes, because the motions of the
column of quicksilver would be too sluggish, and because at a
dark seance it could not be examined from minute to minute.
An instrument adapted for the purpose is a thermometer
invented by Mr. 0. W. Siemens. He encloses a great
length of very fine insulated wire in a small tube,
which may be held in the hand, or fastened under one
of the arm-pits of the person the heat of whose body it
is intended to measure. Two conducting wires are joined
to the two ends of these fine wires, and are connected
at their other ends with the reflecting galvanometer, which
may be placed in another room and its indications there read
off in the light and recorded. A weak electrical current is
sent through the whole of this arrangement, and the warmer
the fine wire in the tube, the more does it resist the passage of
the current, because its conductivity is lessened by the heat,
therefore the less is the deflection of the mirror of the galvano¬
meter. Thus the exact temperature of the body of a medium
in a dark room or cabinet, may be read off from moment to
moment in another room in the light, without inconvenience
to anybody. When the changes of temperature of the body of
a medium which accompany particular manifestations are
approximately known, it will be a great protection to true
mediums, since others will not be able to change the tempera¬
ture of their bodies whenever they please; moreover, if the
spirits should try to deceive, it will take the moral responsi¬
bility of the wickedness of the act off the shoulders of the
medium and fix it upon the spirits.
“ At the seance now under notice Lenore took me into the
cabinet again for two or three minutes. She led me to the
sofa across the dark room, in which, as on the two previous
occasions, she could see no better than I could, and she placed
my hand two or three times upon some velvet, which I assume
to have been the black velvet dress worn by Miss Showers.
Lenore stood by my right side, and at my request placed her
left hand upon my left shoulder, which brought her head
somewhat close to mine; with her right hand she held my
right hand by the wrist, so that if she gave me a hand or face
on the sofa to touch with my right hand, that hand or face
could not be her own. There was little or nothing under that
black velvet dress where she patted my hands upon it the first
three or four times, but afterwards she placed it where some¬
thing small was unmistakably moving and turning inside the
dress, and which she told me was Mips Showers. I asked her to
place my hand on the face of the medium if she could, but'this
was not done effectually.
“ I hope that on the next occasion, to complete the chain of
evidence, she will let me have a little light in the cabinet, and
enable me to testify to having seen herself and the medium at
the same time.
“ Miss Lottie Fowler was asked into the cabinet afterwards,
and had much more complete evidence on the matter than
myself, as will be seen from her letter published in another
column.”
A TEST SEANCE WITH MISS SHOWERS.
Last Saturday week, at a seance held at the residence of
Mrs. Showers, Captain J. James, of Tottenham, Mr. James,
jun., Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near
Manchester, with two of his Manchester friends, and Mr. W.
H. Harrison, were present. The hands of Miss Showers were
firmly bound together with tape by the Manchester gentle¬
men, and the knots sealed, before she entered the cabinet.
" Florence ” appeared as usual, and after the seance Miss
Showers was found bound and sealed as at first.
SEANCE AT MISS POUGLAS'S —A GOOD TEST SEANCE WITH MR.
WILLIAMS, PROVING THE, PACT OE MATERIALISATION.
Last Tuesday afternoon a seance was held at the residence
of Miss Douglas, 81, South Audley-street, London, W., through
the mediumship of Mr. 0. E. Williams. Seven guests were
present. The seance was a dark one, and Mr. Williams was
held on one side by a foreign ambassador to the English
Court, and on the other by a friend of Lady Paulett’s. We
have no authority to give the names of any of the observers,
with the exception of those of Miss Douglas and Mr. Harrison.
In the middle of the seance, while the circle sat with looked
doors, and Mr. Williams was held as described, John King
appeared over one end of the table three or four times, with
the lower part of his chest inclined in the direction of Mr,
Williams. John King was clearly seen by Miss Douglas and
four of the sitters on one side of the table, because he turned
himself so as to partly face them, and they knew what to look
for. The three sitters on the other side of the table did not
distinguish his form, because his back was partly turned
towards them, and because they concentrated their attention
upon his light more than upon the white drapery behind it.
We saw him clearly enough each time, and so did three of the
other spectators. The white drapery below his chest passed
down to the edge of the table, close to the chest of Mr.
Williams, so below that their two bodies probably coincided,
whilst John King’s was no doubt materialised to within an
inch or two of the body of Mr. Williams. Once we saw John
King turn his head, and Mr. Williams instantly cried out—
“ Oh I I see his profile 1 ” Mr. Williams never sees John King
during cabinet seances, but is then always entranced ; about
once in six months he sees John King, when he appears thus
in the centre of a spirit circle, and the medium is then in but
a semi-entranced state.
(Komapontmice.
[Great/freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
SPIRITUALISM AND THEOLOGICAL DOGMAS.
Sir,—In an editorial note to Mr. Bennett’s letter of last
week you say you “ do not see what good can arise from con¬
sidering these theological dogmas” in The Spiritualist1; and in
this opinion I am sure all sensible men will join. It is to be
regretted that you did not follow it up by excluding the letter
of “ Fritz,” which immediately follows. Such letters are sure
to repel a great number of those who are certainly not the
least respectable of your readers. The Spiritualist is esta¬
blished for the discussion, investigation, and dissemination of
the facts of Spiritualism, and to allow it to become the battle
ground of theology can only result in largely diminishing its
circulation. A. T.
Peebles, Feb. 27th, 1875. — —
Sir,—Let me say how glad I was to read your editorial note
suggesting, in The Spiritualist of Feb. 26, that the columns of
your paper cannot be advantageously occupied by discussions
upon such subjects as the Divinity of Christ and the In¬
spiration of the Scriptures. These subjects have been argued
upon in many able works, and it is hardly likely that the
utterances of ghosts will add to our knowledge of the extent to
which Christ is or is not entitled to the claim of being more
than human, whilst it is certain that remarks on this question
cannot fail of giving pain to many who are desirous of learning
the facts connected with spiritual phenomena. I know of
many clergymen who hold aloof from the subject solely
because it is popularly believed that one of the objects of
Spiritualists is to uproot belief in the Divinity of Christ,
and how can they say much on the side of Spiritualism if
such an idea is widely taught ? Surely there is much to
occupy our attention, without going into these profitless
wrangles 1 Might we not question spirits more closely upon
such things as they engage to teach—for instance, has it
ever been explained by a spirit exactly in what way a common
rap is produced ? Is it not lamentable that we are not clearly
instructed in this the first step? We have had evasive and
imperfect receipts for raps; let us have a perfect, scientific
description. It is absurd to say we cannot understand the
method.
You take much pains to draw attention to the need of accu¬
racy in watching and describing the varied phenomena, and it
is truly pleasant to witness such conscientious labour towards
that end. In such studies we may all work together in har¬
mony, and I am inclined to think (judging from remarks I
often hear, and from letters I receive from those who would
like to study facts) that if Tlte Spiritualist had a [permanent
announcement that theological dogmas would not be discussed
in its columns, there would soon be a great increase in the
number of subscribers. I, a very humble individual, hope
that these observations may be viewed as coming from one who
desires to see keen interest shown, in observation of facts, by
thousands who could work together most amicably, provided
only theological discussions are not imported into what is
truly a scientific study of the highest importance.
Hopeful.
Telgumouth.
117
March 5, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sir,—The theological principles, not dogmas, in the sense
of arrogant assertions without foundation, now under ex¬
amination, could not be so advantageously discussed in the
Christian World as in The Spiritualist, because a Spiritualist,
who is not a phenomenalist only, is, in consequence of the
quickening of the faculties of his spiritual nature able to per¬
ceive spiritual truths. Neither do I think it possible fo'r a
discussion, conducted as a discussion usually, is in your
journal, to be without benefit to those who, either actively or
as observers, may have taken part in it; and, to illustrate, I
shall be pardoned if I refer to myself in the following manner,
viz.:—It is now five years ago since there appeared in Nos. 6,
7, 8, 9, and 10 of The Spiritualist, a series of letters under the
head of Bible Spiritualism. I took part in that discussion,
then holding opinions identical with those advanced by
“Fritz.”* Edmund D. Eogers, J. G. Gerrans, and John
Eeattie also engaged in it, but they propounded different
views. That discussion prepared and led me to investigate
the whole subject, upon its interior or spiritual evidences,
when gradually, and as the senses of my spirit were quickened
to enable me to perceive the realities of the things of the
spirit, I perceived as clearly as I ever saw any of the phe¬
nomena of modern Spiritualism, that
The All-loving Fat,her has manifested Himself In the flesh, calling Him¬
self In His Divine Humanity the Lord Jesus Christ, and that the English
Bible in its spiritual sense is His immediate revelation, whilst the literal
sense being plenarily (completely) inspired by Him in the same manner as
my external body is plenarily inspired by my spiritual one.
The three gentlemen whose names are mentioned above will
see by what I have written that I have acknowledged their
position to be the true one.
In my next, if you give me space for another communica¬
tion, I will try to show in a more extended manner why it is
of consequence that the truth of the above propositions be
established. Meantime, I hope I have clearly answered to Mr.
Edward T. Bennett’s requirements. 0. W. Pearce.
14, Burnley-road, S.W., March 2,1875.
Sir,—Are you going to set up a theological journal ? Is not
the very difficult subject “ Phenomena, physiologically, psy¬
chologically, and sociologically considered’’.enough for one
journal, without introducing the “ odium theologicum?"
I see one of your correspondents affirms that a correct deci¬
sion is necessary Upon two major issues. What are they?
Simply neither more nor less than—
«. The divinity of Christ.
b. The plenary inspiration of the Scriptures.
Here are nice little subjects for a few years’ discussion!
Your journal has been a boon to those who, sick of dogmas
and theology, have cried, with Mercutio, “ A plague on both
your houses.” Give us something tangible and provable.
Facts, and logical inferences from facts, and, if you like, a
little deduction; but, for goodness’ sake, no religious discus¬
sions, or there will be no end to the weary, everlasting dispute,
where there can be no objective proof and no mode of verifica¬
tion. C. G. B.
Leamington, Feb. 25th, 1875.
[The only other letter we received on [this subject up to Wednesday is
from Mr. Sutherland, and much too long for insertion this week. Perhaps
there may be more room shortly; but as there will bo unusual pressure on
space during the next week or two, friends are requested to make letters
on all subjects short, and to the point.—Ed.]
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP IN LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—Having secured suitable premises over the hardware
establishment of Messrs. Golding and Co., West Derby-road
(opposite Emmanuel Church), Liverpool, I am, at the request
of many Spiritualists and investigators, about to open them as a
psychopathic institute. In this work I shall be aided by Mrs.
L. E. Coates, who has at length been prevailed upon to exer¬
cise her gifts as a healer, in public, and in compliance with the
demand upon her time, has given up her store at 126, West
Derby-road. Mr. Meredith, an old and successful mesmerist,
some of whose cures in the town are lasting evidences of his
power, will also treat patients. Having had considerable suc¬
cess, I have no doubt when I have fully recovered from my
present indisposition, ali my powers will return with renewed
vigour; I shall then throw myself heart and soul into the
important work of healing the sick under the influence of my
beloved constant friend and guide, ” Dr. Warren.” All that
clairvoyance, psychopathy, and mesmerism, guided by intelli¬
gence and experience, can do for suffering humanity, shall be
done to the utmost of our ability. A commodious bath room
* The phrase imputed to me, In your note appended to “ Fritz’s” com¬
munication, is not to be found in my letters.—C. W. F.
will be fitted up for the purpose of giving mesmerised or
mineral baths to such persons as may require them. Nor shall
the wants of mediums, Spiritualists, and others be forgotten,
as seance rooms can be obtained for the purpose of investiga¬
tion. In the reception room copies of the Spiritual and other
progressive literature will be found; also a small library,
which can be easily enlarged if appreciated.
The institute will be open for the reception of visitors and
patients about the 15th of March. James Coates.
Liverpool.
SCRIPTURAL RECORDS OF THE APPEARANCE OF THE SPIRITS
OF THE DEPARTED.
Sir,—If Mr. Atkinson will look at the three following
passages of Scripture, I think he will see that he is mistaken
in supposing that “ there is but one instance of the spirit of a
dead person appearing, and that one the result of witchcraft,”
given in the Bible.
In the “ Transfiguration” scene (Mark, 9th chapter, 4th v.)
Moses and Elias appeared, and talked with Jesus. At the
“ Besurreotion” (27th chap. Matthew, 52 and 53 v.), “Many
of the bodies of the saints arose, * * went into the city, * *
and appeared unto many.” Bevelations, 22nd chap. 9th v.,
John, about to fall down and worship the angel, who had been
with him, was thus stayed, “ See thou do it not, for I am thy
fellow-servant, and of thy brethren, the prophets.”
F. J. T.
St. Leouard’s-on-Sea.
IN THE CABINET WITH A MEDIUM.
Sir,—In addition to Mr. W. H. Harrison’s account of the
remarkable seancej&t the private residence of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, on Saturday evening, 27th inst., I wish to give the
public my personal experiences at this my second visit to
Miss M. Showers’s materialisation manifestations.
The spirit Florence called me up to her, and allowed me to
catch hold of her hand ; she patted me on the head and let
me feel her dress; it felt like what we in America call cambric
muslin; it was a very fine piece of goods. After a while,
before all our eyes, she seemed to grow smaller and very short.
The second spirit, Lenore, came outside the curtains, and
allowed us all to do the same, and showed us her bare feet.
We all asked her if she would let some one of the company
go in to see if the medium was in a trance on the sofa. She
was backward at first, but she took Mr. Harrison into the dark
room, and he said he felt something on the sofa which was
living but very small. Afterward, I asked her if I could go
in. She said she would try. After a while, she allowed me to
catch hold of her hand, and led me to the sofa in the inner room.
I asked the spirit Lenore to let me keep hold of her while I felt
for Miss Showers. I kept hold of the spirit all the time, and
put my hand where the medium ought to have been lying
in a trance. To be sure that I was not deceived, I felt Miss
Showers on the sofa in a dead cataleptic trance, and I felt the
spirit at the same time. The spirit said my influence was
good for the medium. When I was feeling all over the face,
hands, wrist, and arms of Miss Showers, they were smaller
than they were when she came to herself; for I looked at her
hand when she came to the conscious state. This is demon¬
strative of the reality of apparitions. I know my word will
carry weight amongst many friends, as I have no object in
deceiving the public, and I am thankful to have witnessed the
power of God and the spiritual world on this occasion.
Lottie Fowler.
2, Vernon-plaoe, Bloomsbury-square, W.O., Fob. 28.
ORGANISATION.
Sir,—On the evening of Friday, the 13th ulh, at the rooms
of the Liverpool Pysohologioal Society, a paper was read by Mr.
Charlton on “ Organisation,” containing some excellent sugges¬
tions specially referring to the dangers of centralisation, after
which a discussion took place on the policy of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, which resulted in a vote
of confidence in the Association ; there was only one dissen¬
tient. A resolution to continue in alliance with the Associa¬
tion, and to support it by active co-operation, was passed.
The settlement of the question of offices, and the gradual
consolidation of the society, is of great importance, so that
the actual work contemplated may be performed. I believe
that charity and a high sense of our obligation to spread the
knowledge of spirit communion, so far as we each have re¬
ceived it, will result in decided success. J. Lamont.
Liverpool.
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 5, 1875.
THE WALEA.CE TESTIMONIAL.
Sib,—I was sorry to see by last week’s issue that you bad
not received any information, during the last fortnight, re¬
specting the Wallace testimonial, except what I had sent you.
I think it a pity not to have let all the Spiritualist periodicals
know the programme, as it is a matter that concerns every¬
body ; I am sure all who feel interested in the subject of
Spiritualism would gladly throw in their mite to help one of
the ablest and most disinterested workers in this great cause,
especially as he and his wife are now in need of help because
of illness and reduced circumstances.
I hope for the future you will have notice of what is being
done from the working committee. I shall be most happy to
do all I can to help, and shall be very pleased to receive con¬
tributions, great or small, from any of your numerous readers
who know me. ' M. A. Evebitt.
Lilian Villa, Hendon, N.W., Feb. 28tli.
Sib,—The secretaries to the Wallace Testimonial Fund have
this day communicated with me, with the view of obtaining
the kindly aid of any of our members of the Dalston Associa¬
tion who may be disposed to subscribe to the same. I hasten
to make good the slight delay which has apparently arisen in
communicating the necessary official information to this
Association, by requesting you to be good enough to insert
this letter, as an intimation that a subscription list has been
opened for the above object, to which I beg to offer our
members and friends an opportunity of subscribing.
Thomas Blyton, Hon. Sec. and Treasurer.
“Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,”
Booms: 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.,
2nd March, 1875.
A REMARKABLE TEST SEANCE IN BRISTOL.
Sib,—Dr. Monck recently gave two seances in College-green
in this city, and some of those present at one of the seances
having reported that the manifestations might have been pro¬
duced by means which were under the control of the medium,
Dr. Monck, on ascertaining this, frankly offered to give three
unpaid test seances, in order to establish the fact that the phe¬
nomena are produced by some agency acting independently of
the medium.
On Thursday evening last a committee, consisting of an
equal number of the friends of Dr. Monck and those of the
dissentients, met at 7, Unity-street, to arrange the conditions
under which the seances should be held, and to define the
nature of the tests to be applied, when the following pro¬
gramme was agreed on :—That the observers at the seances
shall be composed of four gentlemen who have investigated
the phenomena, and four sceptics.
That they shall endeavour to obtain well-defined raps under
the following test conditions :—
1st. That Dr. Monck’s feet shall be tied to the chair.
2nd. That he shall sit with his boots off.
Brd. That he shall stand up while the raps are produced.
That if either of the tests appear to be unsatisfactory to any
gentleman present, he shall state his conviction at the close
of the experiment.
That a statement of the results shall be subscribed to by
the persons present.
On Saturday last a test seance was held in the afternoon at
the residence of one of the dissentients, in Hampton Park,
the circle being composed of four gentlemen on each side.
The medium having first been thoroughly searched at his
own request, four of the gentlemen were seated at the table,
Dr. Monck’s friends being placed behind them, each resting
his hands on the chair of the one who sat before him.
The light having been subdued by partially closing the
Venetian blinds, Dr. Monck’s boots were removed, and his
stockings examined, in order to ascertain that they contained
no mechanism or hard substance, by means of which sounds
might be produced.
While thus sitting the raps came distinctly and abundantly
in different parts of the table, and immediately under the
hands of the gentlemen who sat at the table; intelligent
messages were also spelt out by means of the raps.
Dr. Monck’s feet were then securely tied to the chair, when
the raps came in an equally pronounced and satisfactory
manner, varying considerably in loudness and tone ; raps also
occurred in different parts of the floor, and under the feet of
the sitters.
One of the gentlemen having inquired whether it might be
possible for Dr. Monck. while his legs were tied, to produce
sounds by bringing his toes round in contact with the chair,
his feet were bound to the chair by two handkerchiefs to pre¬
vent the possibility of any such result, in addition to which a
coat was placed over the leg of the table nearest to Dr. Monck,
after which the raps occurred just as distinctly as before.
Dr. Monck having been released, he and all present stood
up, when the raps were again distinctly heard, some of them
occurring in parts of the table most remote from the medium.
Other manifestations took place, and these terminated a
most satisfactory seance of three hours and three-quarters’
duration, the evidence being so conclusive that a second seance
was deemed unnecessary.
Looking at the amount of the sceptical element present,
and other unfavourable influences, and at the nature of the
conditions and tests imposed, which utterly precluded the
possibility of any production of the phenomena on the part
of the medium, except such as, by some higher law, is evolved
through the agency of his mysterious mediumship, it must be
conceded that the result was highly gratifying, and that it
will tend to confirm and strengthen the voluminous testimony
which Dr. Monck has already obtained from all parts of the
kingdom, as to the genuineness and wonderful nature of his
mediumship.
At the conclusion of the seance a declaration was signed by
the sceptics present, stating that they could not account for
the manifestations which had taken place.
Geobge Tommy.
7, Unity-street, College-green, Bristol, March 1st, 1875.
Spiritualism in the West op England.—A Society
has been formed in Bristol entitled “ The Bristol and West of
England Psychological Society,” under the presidency of Mr.
John Beattie, of 2, Richmond Hill, Clifton. The objects of the
Society are “ the investigation, by its members, of such of the
mental and spiritual phenomena, in connection with the
organism of man, as may be brought within the range of their
observation, either individually or collectively, with a view to
form a correct estimate of the functions, powers, and capaci¬
ties of the spiritual side of man’s nature, and the mode of
applying such knowledge to the practical purpose of his exist¬
ence. The promotion of the above-named objects will be
sought by means of meetings of the members for the purpose
of comparing their experiences; conferring on the latest de¬
velopments in connection with the object of their investiga¬
tion ; disseminating the knowledge of psychology by means of
lectures and the press, and by assisting inquirers in the inves¬
tigation of psychological phenomena.” The meetings of the
society are held in Mr. A. Dimoline’s Music Room, 34, College
Green, Bristol.
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s Mediumship.—On
Wednesday night, last week, at a public seance, given
through the mediumship of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, at
2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, about twelve or
fifteen persons were present. At the dark circle the manifesta¬
tions were very good, and of the usual description. Musical
instruments floated about with considerable velocity, touching
the various sitters gently in their flight, thus proving that
the spirits carrying them had the power of seeing in the dark.
Most of the Sitters were also touched by materialised spirit
hands. Mr. Taylor, who is a clairvoyant medium, could evi¬
dently see accurately what the spirits were doing, because he
would occasionally state what they were about to do the in¬
stant before the act was performed. He says that when his
spiritual vision is thus opened, he cannot see those portions
of the bodies of the spirits which are materialised ; thus, if a
hand is materialised, he loses sight of the hand of the spirit,
and it is just the same with a head. This agrees with Sweden¬
borg’s statement, that when he entered the spirit-world the
spirits looked upon him as an apparition, for they could see
him when he was in a spiritual state, and not when he was
in his normal state. After the dark seance was over, a sitting
for recognisable spirit faces was held, but the light being low,
so as not to illuminate the faces strongly, and being so placed
that it was not screened from the eyes of the spectators while
they were gazing at the cabinet, we could not seethe features
of the spirits with sufficient accuracy to be able to say much
about the manifestations. Messrs. Bastian and Taylor use a
bed-room as a cabinet, and, so far as non-Spiritualists are
concerned, it would add to the interest of their seances if they
would make a test cabinet, simply by nailing a black curtain,
with a hole in its centre, across one of the corners of the
drawing-room.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
March 5, 1875.
STRANGE POWERS OF SPIRITS OF SLEEPING
MORTALS.
In the last number of The Spiritualist it was pointed
out how the spirit of the sister of Prince Wittgenstein
manifested to him while her body was in a trance ; how
the spirit of a mesmeric sensitive left her body and
produced physical effects in a house at a distance, as
authenticated by Mr. Fitz-Gerald, the electrician; how
one sleeping person influenced another, and how the
spirits of several sleeping persons were photographed.
Since then we have received the following startling,
information bearing on the same subject:—
PHOTOGRAPHING THE SPIRIT OP A MEDIUM IN PARIS, WHILE HIS
BODY WAS ASLEEP IN LONDON.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
Sir,—In the course of collecting evidence for some articles
which I have been publishing on the subject of Spirit Photo¬
graphy, I was astonished to find it stated on good authority,
that M. Buguet, of 5, Boulevard Montmartre, Paris, had
several times photographed the spiritual image of a living
person. The Comte de Bullet, I found, had been especially
fortunate in obtaining portraits of his sister, who lives at Bal¬
timore, U.S.A., as well as of her children, and of his own
mother. I placed myself in communication with him, and
received an attestation of the fact which you quoted in the
last number of the Spiritualist.
The evidence was so complete that it set me thinking on
the trans-corporeal action of spirit. Cases readily occurred to
me in which I had heard of the spirit leaving the body, and
retaining recollection of its wanderings. I had been familiar
with the fact in my own person. Many times I had wandered
in spirit, and had preserved a vivid remembrance of the
scenes through which I passed. On one occasion, at least, I
had been able to test the truth of my vision; and had found
my record of a scene at which I was not physically present to
be so literally exact that I had no doubt as to my having been
spiritually present at it.
It seemed, therefore, a good opportunity for ascertaining
whether it were possible for my spirit to leave on the sensi¬
tised plate a permanent record of its wanderings beyond the
body. Doubtless it would be idle waste of time to evoke the
spirit of any sleeping person who might be chosen at random.
Peculiar conditions of mediumsbip are requisite, which were
existent in me. The leaving the body was already, in my
case, a frequent fact: it was only the permanent record of it
that was wanting. An arrangement was accordingly made
between Mr. Gledstanes (11, Hue D’Asnieres, Paris) and myself
to this effect—He was to present himself at M. Buguet’s
studio at 11 a.m., on Sunday, Jan. 31 last, to sit as soon after
his arrival as possible, and to “ evoke ” me, i.e., to fix his
mind on me, and to will strongly that my spirit should present
itself. For my part, I engaged to remain quiet in my rooms,
and to be asleep, if I could so arrange, or to ask my spirit
friends to entrance me.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Gledstanes posed at 11.15 a.m.
Paris time, which is 11.5 a.m. London time. On the first half
of the plate then exposed is a faint image of me. The second
half shows no trace of anything beside the sitter. The second
exposure took place at 11.25 Paris, or 11.15 London time. The
result is that on the first half of the plate appears a perfect
likeness of myself, and on the second half the figure of an old
man with clearly-marked features. My own face wears the ap¬
pearance so hard to define, yet so familiar to all who have
seen much of entranced persons. The eyes are closed, and
the expression is that of a person in deep sleep. The figure is
not, as is usually the case, close behind the sitter, but is ap¬
parently supported at some distance from him as though by a
power external both to itself and to him. This is the excep¬
tion in M. Buguet’s pictures. I have before me some sixty of
them, and only in rare cases does the spirit stand away from
the sitter. In almost all it extends its arm over the head of
the sitter, as though it were drawing some influence or power
from him, and generally the fluidic drapery covers the sitter’s
head or some part of his body. In this case the figure is
apart as though supported, as I learn was actually the case.
My own share in the business is soon described. I remained in
bed in order to be at rest, and to be free from risk of disturb¬
ance. I woke shortly after 10.15 a.m.,, and lay in a dreamy
state, half asleep and half awake, listening to the church bells
ringing, until near eleven o’clock, when I became unconscious i
again. The bells were ringing as I lost note of what was
passing, and the clock had not struck. I remember no more
until 11.47 a.m., when I woke and looked at my watch. That
three-quarters of an hour is an absolute blank, as is all the
time during which I am entranced, if the trance-state is per¬
fectly established. I remained in a condition of partial trance
during the whole day. About 3.30 p.m. I went to Dr. Speer’s,
and we had a sitting in the evening. My friends noticed, as
soon as I went into the room, the peculiar expression which
with me indicates partial entrancement. I did not lose that
feeling until the following morning. The sitting was specially
devoted to an address from a spirit who had not before con¬
trolled me, and nothing was said about the success of the
photographic experiment until the next morning—Monday,
about 6 a.m. When I woke I received at once a communica¬
tion explaining what had been done, and telling me that at
the last exposure a representation of myself appeared on one
half of the plate, and on the other one of the spirits who had
arranged and carried out the matter. He has communicated
with me regularly for more than two years. He was on earth
a sage who is historically known for his deep spiritual know¬
ledge. Other points were noticed, with which I need not
trouble your readers. Suffice it to say, that I elicited full par¬
ticulars at 7 a.m. on Monday morning, and that each point
was exactly corroborated by a letter which I received from Mr.
Gledstanes from Paris, nine hours after, i.e. about 5 p.m.
The whole affair, sufficiently astonishing in its details and
in the speculations to which it leads, I have recorded with
literal exactness. There is no doubt whatever as to the fact
that the spirit of a person whose body was lying asleep in
London was photographed by M. Buguet in Paris. And there
is no doubt that this is not a solitary instance. Nor do the
communications which I have received respecting it from
those who have never deceived me yet, leave any room for
doubt that the spirit was actually present in the studio, and
that the picture is not one of some image made up by the in¬
visibles, as is sometimes the case.
I have only to add that a friend who frequently joins our
seances, was so impressed with a sense of my presence about
11.25 a.m., on the Sunday, while sitting in his rooms near
Bond-street, that he noted the fact, being impressed with it as
curious because he was thinking of other matters. The com¬
munication which I received on Monday morning, detailed the
attempts that had been made to impress a sense of my
spiritual presence upon two friends, one of whom was the
gentleman in question.
I have heard many cases of the trans-corporeal wanderings
of spirit: and I have some in my own records. I hope one
day to collect these, and by that time I hope that other photo¬
graphic experiments may be successfully carried out. Mean¬
time any of your readers who wish to see the photograph, or
can favour me with records of experiences bearing upon it,
are invited to communicate with me at Mr. Allen’s, your
publisher. ’ M. A. (Oxon.)
February, 1875.
Miss Kislingbury sends the following information
AN AUSTRIAN OFFICER GIVES WAR NEWS TO THE BARONESS VAX
DURING THE SLEEP OF HIS BODY—A DREAM PICTURE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist
Sir,—One of the most remarkable instances known to me of
the power of the spirit to quit the body during sleep is one re¬
corded by the Baroness von Yay in her Studies from the Spirit
World. Although it has been already quoted in the review of
that work published in your journal, your readers will perhaps
forgive my repeating it in connexion with the facts now under
consideration:—
During the Austro-German war in 1866, a cousin of the
Baroness, called W—, who was in the campaign, professed
continually to give accounts of himself through the hand of
the medium while his body was asleep, which accounts always
agreed with subsequent letters received from him by the
Baroness. On the 4th July W—’s spirit wrote, “ We have
had a great battle. I am well, but so tired.” On the 6th a
letter came by post from W—, dated July 2nd, ” We expect
a decisive battle to-morrow. I have a feeling that I shall not
escape, but do not fret about me; my trouble will soon be
over.” A day or two afterwards W—’s name appeared on the
official list of those slain in the battle of Kbniggratz, which
took place on the 3rd July. On the 9th, however, W—’s
spirit again wrote l ” I assure you I am not dead. I came
safely through the fearful battle of Koniggratz ! do not doubt
my words; I will write you a letter in the flesh shortly.”
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Three days later the Baroness received a letter from her
cousin, dated July 11th : “ God and the good spirits protected
me in that frightful carnage; thousands fell; 450 privates in
our battalion, and two officers.”
The following is a personal experience of my own. Shortly
before Christmas last year, a friend who had been some time
abroad wrote to me to say he should be in London on a cer¬
tain date, and I might expect to see him within a few days of
his arrival. Ten days elapsed, and my friend neither came
nor wrote. I sent him two letters without effect. Then came
the fearful railway accident at Shipton Bridge, and I began
to be tormented with fears for my friend’s safety. My mind
had been much troubled all day, and at night relief came to
me in a dream, or vision. While asleep I saw myself in a
room at work, and on raising my head perceived my friend
standing in the doorway in his hat and over-coat. He did
not speak, and the picture soon vanished; but I rose in the
morning with a feeling that all was well, as was proved by a
letter received in the evening of that day.
I call this a dream-picture, as distinct from an ordinary
dream, in which action and conversation take place, and
which is generally incongruous and confused, and leaves
afterwards but a vague impression. The dream-picture
is a tableau, clear and vivid, appears but for a moment, but
remains indelibly impressed upon the mind. I have seen
three.such in my life—one symbolical, one possibly prophetic,
and one, this last, apparently real. I can never forget them,
whereas of dreams, ordinarily so called, I have not one distinct
recollection. It seems to me more probable that these were
scenes presented to the mind by some direct spiritual agency,
rather than the action of a distant mind, or of one which had
left a sleeping body. Certainly the two first cases to which I
have alluded come under this head; the third cannot be
tested, because it was impossible for me to know at what hour
in the night I saw my friend, though it is most probable that
he was also asleep at the time. He did not, however, suspect
my anxiety, having written to me of his change of plan at an
address which I had left during the week. It would be con¬
soling to me to know that, though not a seeing medium in my
waking state, it may yet be possible to receive mental impres¬
sions in so vivid a manner, if one could only rely upon their
truthfulness. But here’s the rub ! Emily Kislingbuby.
93, Olarendon-road, Notting-MU, W., March. 1.
A valuable little book on Mental Volition, by Mr.
Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S., published last Monday by
Mr. Burns, of 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, contains
the following:—
A MESMEBIO SENSITIVE BEADING THE DBEAMS OF ANOTHEB
SLEEPING PEBSON.
A lady of our acquaintance being one day asleep on the
sofa, in the presence of one of our induced clairvoyant som-
nambules, we solicited the latter to employ herself in ob¬
serving the condition of the sleeping lady’s brain. . . . She
stated that the sleeping lady was dreaming of her brother-in-
law, who was abroad, also of some particular circumstance
pertaining to him. . . . We were next informed that the
sleeper’s sensorium was occupied with the idea that her dog
had been stolen. She next dreamt of being in a crowded
room, in the presence of certain grave gentlemen—in fact,
before the magistrate and his attendants. . . . When the
lady awoke she was greatly surprised to find that we could
give her all the particulars concerning the subject of her
sleeping fancy.
We postpone the consideration of certain grave
psychological questions, arising from the various newly-
discovered powers of sleeping persons.
SriEiTUALiSM in Liverpool.—Last Friday night, Mrs.
Nosworthy kindly gave some public readings in the rooms of
the Liverpool Psychological Society, for the benefit of the
Wallace Testimonial Fund. The subject was—“ Spiritualistic
Beadings from the Works of Certain Dramatic Authors.”
The platform was, thanks to Mr. Wason, Mr. Bennett, of
Claughton, and Miss Poyser, richly embowered in exotic
plants and flowers, amodg which were camellias in profusion.
Dr. Hitchman presided with much judgment and good taste,
and the whole entertainment was of an elegant description.
The readings included—“The May Queen,” Tennyson;
“Childe Harold’s Address to the Ocean,” Byron; “The
Angel Child,” Lizzie Doten; and scenes from Hamlet, The
Rivals, and The School for Scandal.
Makch 5, 1875.
Mrs. Fat’s Mediumship.—Last Tuesday night a public
seance was held at the rooms of Mrs. Fay, 21, Princes-street,
Hanover-square, W.; Mrs. Nosworthy, Mr. N. F. Dawe, Miss
Poyser, and Mr. W. H. Harrison, were among the twelve or
fifteen spectators.- Mr. Fay, who has returned from America,
took charge of the arrangements. Mrs. Fay was tied and
secured by disbelievers to iron rings in the usual efficient
manner, but secure her how they would, the manifestations
went on as usual, for she is one of the finest test physical
mediums ever seen in this country. Dr. Inman, of Brighton,
once complained that at the dark seance, the continuous
clapping of the hands of the medium was not good proof that
the medium might not be assisting the manifestations, so on
Tuesday, Mrs. Fay had her hands filled with fine flour at
the dark seance; her hands were still full of flour at the close,
and there was none on any of the instruments or spilt any¬
where, but unless the hands of the medium are bound also
with cords, we do not consider any flour test unanswerable.
Mr. Fay expressed his belief that the manifestations were
done by spirits, but said that'the observers must form their
own conclusions on the matter. When questioned, he said
that the phenomena were not tricks, and did not belong to
the same category as the perfGrmances of Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke. Hard-headed sceptics cannot do better than to
attend Mrs. Fay’s seances.
The Brixton Psychological Society.—The Council of
this society held its first meeting at the house of Miss Ponder,
11, Hayter Villas, Hayter-road, Brixton Rise, on Wednesday
last week. Present, Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. P. Ashton,
Mrs. Rudd, Miss E. D. Ponder, Miss Withall, Mr. Egerton
Stanley, and Mr. Arthur E. Rendle. Mr. Fitz-Gerald presided.
The meeting discussed preliminary business matters, after
which Mr. J. E. Ponder was elected a member of the society;
also Mr. T. H. Edmunds and Mr. Egerton Stanley, who were
also elected members of the Council. Mr. E. P. Ashton was
elected auditor on behalf of the Council, the first general
meeting to elect another. There was a long discussion anent
the advantages to be derived from membership. It was pro¬
posed by the chairman, and seconded by Mr. Ashton, that the
secretary should report any case which may come to his
knowledge of Spiritualists or investigators residing in the
neighbourhood specially requiring advice or aid in connection
with the objects of the society. The next Council meeting
is to take place at Mrs. WithalPs, No. X, The Elms, St. John’s-
road, Brixton-road, London. Ladies or gentlemen who would
like to join would do well to correspond with the hon. secre¬
tary, Mr. Arthur E. Rendle, at the temporary offices of the
society, 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
MB. WALLACE’S SOIREE.
Tickets for mr. Wallace’s soiree, price
Is. 6d. each, may be obtained of Mrs. Parkes, 6, G-aynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.;
Mr. Towns, 1, Albert-terrace, Bamsbury-road, N.; Mrs. Everitt, Lilian-
villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.; Mrs. Bullock, 19, Church-street,
Islington, N.; Mr. R. Cogman, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, E.; Mr.
Hunt, Secretary to the Marylebone Spiritual Association, 47, East-street,
Baker-street, JW.; Mr. Barber, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington, N.; or of the
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. Bielfeld, 208, Euston-road, or of the Secretaries,
Mr. J. Bums, 15, SonthamptOn-row, and Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Landall-road,
Camden Town, N.W. The soiree will be held on the 1st of April, at the
Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street;
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, Cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-plaoe, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits , the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to he obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
® SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
March 5, 1875.
ili
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND GLAIRY0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomshury-squaro, 'W.C..
MR, CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
Ss.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ANNIE EYA FAY has the honour to announce that
she will resume her LIGHT and DARK SEANCES on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday Evenings, at 8 o’clock, at her Residence, 21,
Princes-street, Hanover-square, W. She is also prepared to give seances at
the private residences of the nobility and gentry.
Annie eya fay’s extraordinary light
and DARK SEANCES. Tickets, 10s. each, may be had of Mrs. Pay,
21, Princes-street, Hanover-square; also at Mitchell’s, 33, Old Bond-street;
Ollivier, 88, Old Bond-street; Bubb, 167, New Bond-street; Lacon and
Olliver, 168, New Bond-street; and all agents.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
M
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or-about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
Seance* (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Eparkes, spiritualist photographer.
• Sittings b la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fed, one guinea per sitting, Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, 8.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-strdet, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D , 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earl ham-road-terrace, Norwieh.-
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fflz-Gerald, Desmond, G„ M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.G.E., Junior United Servic'e Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S-, 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., I, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J.. 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Slrawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Heme Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 98, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor {Progressive Spiriiudlist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East’Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell*
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
MmeG. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. O, Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.j
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 5, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq,, P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq,, M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., P.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes,' to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox,.Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., P.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether .the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the tatjle it sometimes, but' not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one -person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him'tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUAL IS T” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and. the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the, reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon) ; Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-. Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL M.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOOK OF HAIR!!!
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare" and the Indian Chief “ Blackhawk.”
Fee to accompany the Hair, IOs. 6d., by post office order on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual 'Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6i. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian]Academy of Science, &c.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London. E.C.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC insti¬
tute, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 1a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, principals.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TyermaN,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede ape con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lano London E.C.
