A RECORD OF THE PROQI\E££ OF THE £CIE^CE AND ETHICS Of ^PIF^ITUAtl^M,
[REGHSTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 61.—(Vol. m.—No. 22.) LONDON: OCTOBER 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
(Eontents.
The Spirit apd the Brain ...   338
An Orthodox Spirit Seance  ... ... ...   339
The British Association at Bradford.—The Localisation of Functions
in the Brain—Photographing the Invisible—Professor Tyndall and
the Spirits  ...   *   341
The National Association of Spiritualists   343
Pilgrimages and their Causes ...    343
Testimonial to Mr. and Mrs. Howitt      344
Testimonial to Judge Edmonds   344
Weekly Publication of the Spiritualist     345
Arrival of Mr. Peebles in England        345
Spiritual Meetings at Gower-street     346
The Liverpool Psychological Society    347
Correspondence.—Spiritualism at Home—a Children’s seance—^Re¬
markable Manifestations through the Rev. F. W. Monck’s Medium-
ship; Dr. Richardson’s Lectures on Spiritualism; Gower-street
Spiritualistic Meetings; the Late Conference at Liverpool; Dis¬
turbances in a Chapel Vault in the Island of Barbadoes   348
Lecture by Mrs. Tappan      ... 351
Paragraphs:—Spirit Identity, 340; The Struggle for Life, 345; Pil¬
grimages, 345; Mrs. Tappan’s Early Orations, 345; St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, 347; Miss Lottie Fowler in Liverpool, 347;
Trade Interests, 350; Spiritualism in Dalston, 351; The Rev. J.
Murray Spear ...    ...   351
Answers to Correspondents   ... ... ... ... 351
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 8s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. N. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Ho worth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after
into England the
the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, br by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law.
Introduction to Mental
The MECHANISM of MAN.
Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the.Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death. ' , ’ ■» ,'
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul..
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery. \ .
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am W'—Leicester Mercury \
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientiflc
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-rpw.
B
IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.-
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
-29 and 30,
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied, :
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
' Shares, &c,, effected. Advances made thereon. ,
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and bn Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.';
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free bn application to
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navariho-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s, annual.
Honorary, 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
338
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1873.
Cl-e
HAEpffi FOE, ADVERTISEMENTSThree sMUings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
fftfe ppifitmlpt ds a very good medium for advertisements, because it
diriiilates largely 4‘mong those! whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
- - OonEJiSPONXiESCi!!.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per-
sonar qpirdqns,. for publication, are requested not to make them more
Imra ol 4 ediumn long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
- All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
djrected to(Mr. E. 'W.., Allen, at the same address; and all communications
fpd.tjie ltiiterafy Department should be addressed to the Editor.
■'Snbsdftptionl'^No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or ii'regularity in the supply of'•'■The Spiritualist” in
i Lohdoiiot. in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
'publisher^ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
rE.O:-,ihMtM Mufiysbe informed of such impediments and irreyulari-
ties,(md>.copies caiiihen be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals?^ aji—
-Oi UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N,:Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—fS. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.-—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
.LSriLonis,—^Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S- Gadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
. Wa'shifigton.—Richard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
1 AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne;—'W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be.had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. pj. ‘W, Allen, Hi Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for-thapiext thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia^ ahdViNety.^e^land the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost pi-lhirty; numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. Tbp,c,ost,pf a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
THE SPIRIT AND THE BRAIN.
Experienced Spiritualists have absolute knowledge
not generally possessed by less informed members of
tbe scientific world, that the intelligent part of man
can act and think apart both from the material brain
ahd the material body. Hence all experiments tending
to throw light upon the methods whereby the spirit
acts upon the brain are of very great interest. The
experiments by Professor Ferrier, published upon
another page, prove to demonstration that particular
portions of the brain govern the motions of particular
parts of the body; and the demonstration is so clear
as to be a great triumph to one branch at least of the
much-abused subject Cf phrenology. Professor Ferrier
used something which was invisible and imponderable,
to stimulate the several portions of the brain, definite
bodily motions being the result; he used an extremely
feeble current of electricity for the purpose. This
absolute proof that something which has no weight,
and which cannot be Seen, can govern the motions of
the body, is one of the greatest pieces of evidence
orthodox physical science has contributed of late years,
tending to establish the truth of Spiritualism. The
chief difference between the experiments of Professor
Ferrier and those of the phreno-mesmerists, consists in
the circumstance that he caused electrical stimulus to
act upon an uncovered brain, whilst the latter caused
mesmeric stimulus to act upon the brain while covered
by the skull. What would be the influence of mes¬
merism and of the human will upon an uncovered
brain ?
The question has often been raised—In what respect
do powerful physical mediums differ from other people ?
They are all exceedingly passionate and impulsive,
and there are times with the best of them when their
passions completely govern their intellects; they are
easily mesmerised; physical mediums, also, have much
love for the material pleasures of life, sometimes with,
and sometimes without, love for intellectual pleasures.
These, however, are mental characteristics, and it would
be interesting to know in what respects they differ
physically from other people. Mrs. Hardinge was in
the habit of saying that they had large back brains,
and it would be well if persons experienced in the
measurement of heads would give information to show
to what extent the assertion is reliable.
Just as an intelligent engine-driver operates upon
different parts of an unintelligent locomotive, just as
an intelligent musician operates upon an unintelligent
piano, so does the immortal spirit of man operate upon
the body and the brain. And one spirit, by strong
mesmeric will-power, can wholly or partially drive
away another spirit from the body of which it is the
rightful owner, and can wholly or partially use the
said body for its own good or evil purposes. “ Give us
more test mediumship,” say Spiritualists, which means,
r Give us a medium with so little control over his own
body that any of our departed friends can act upon it
at will, and prove their personal identity.” Bad as
well as good spirits can then necessarily act upon the
body of the medium with the greatest ease^ Spiritual¬
ists take no care whatever to Shield such sensitives from
evil influences, though many methods of doing so are
known, and the medium is held responsible for what¬
ever he may do when surrounded by adverse influences.
Probably good and bad influences act upon all of us
more or less in the same way, and that the structure
and shape, of the brain, due to hereditary causes, have a
powerful influence over all human acts. Then, again,
it is well known that cold lessens the activity of vital
functions; consequently, if Professor Ferrier reduced
the temperature of a particular portion of the brain,
any stimulus afterwards applied to it might have less
influence over the power of the resulting bodily
motions. But mark the result of this. Two men
may have an equal proclivity for. theft. If one of
them chances to be seated for an hour with the back
of his head near a fire, the stimulus of the heat acting
upon a particular part of the brain, may help power¬
fully to cause him to plan a burglary; whilst the
other man, riding for an hour on a coach, with a north
wind blowing against the back of his head, may have
his proclivity to acquire the property of others reduced
to a minimum for the time being. May not the sin¬
fulness of a man, therefore, depend somewhat upon
the circumstance whether he has a thick head of hair
or is bald-headed? Suppose an incorrigible bully in
Newgate to be quite insensible to the utterances of the
chaplain, if the head of the former were shaved, and a
roasted apple placed on his good “ bumps,” and a lump
of ice on his bad ones, would he become so tractable
in consequence, as to be “saved” by the teachings?
No doubt the spirit first starts a train of good or evil
thought, but the intensity and power of the thought
afterwards may be influenced more or less by the brain
and body. Great religious problems as to the moral
responsibility of men and women hang upon questions
like these, and the physical science side of the question
will have to be considered as carefully as the spiritual
side, by all persons who love truth.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
339
Oct. 1, 1873.
AN ORTHODOX SPIRIT SEANCE
BT THE AUTHOR OF “ UNORTHODOX LONDON.”
I fancy I hear some benevolent reader, without for¬
feiting his proverbial character for amiability, enter a
preliminary protest against any connection between
Orthodoxy and the heresy of Modern Spiritualism. It
is the fashion to suppose that all Spiritualists are of
that very advanced Broad Church against which is
hurled by good people the awful polysyllable Latitu-
dinarianism. There is no sort of difficulty in seeing
how this has come to be the case. Spiritualism is
tabooed. It is not a thing to be inquired into. It is
false; or, if not false, wrong. Some people, with an
acrimony that is deliciously illogical, say that it is both
false and wrong. But, on the other hand, there are
some people who aver that all God’s works form proper
objects of inquiry. Their creed is so large and unde¬
fined, their range of vision so extensive, that they
include everything — even Modern Spiritualism — in
their comprehensive embrace. Adherents of different
religious schools approach the subject timidly, and, as
it were, like Nicodemus, “ by night; ” but these Pro¬
gressive folks make no secret of it at all: so it
has come to be said that a belief in Spiritualism
always goes hand in hand with advanced religious
opinions. It is only indiscriminating detractors who
add the indictment of lax morality.
But I know a great many persons in every school
of religious thought—Roman, Anglican, and Noncon¬
formist—who reason thus':—If we bid men in this way
not doubt, but summarily disbelieve miracles which are
alleged to be performed in their midst, and therefore to
be subject to the test of their five senses, can we fairly
ask them to credit other miracles whose occurrence,
several centuries ago, is only narrated in a book, albeit
that book is the Bible ?
Consequently some religious people, more logical
than those who stand aloof altogether, proceed to “ try
the spirits,” and profess to have proved by their exor¬
cisms that the whole matter is diabolical, and therefore
wisely refrain from practising it.
Others take quite an opposite course. They refuse to
believe that God, as a God of mercy, would permit the ac¬
cess of evil spirits, and refuse man the ministry of angels.
They believe that, in this respect, as in all others, man
is bound to exercise the judgment and the freewill
which God has given him. They seem to read, in
legends of Eden, the theory written down for them,
that good and evil spirits have equal access to man,
and that his own moral condition determines which
shall have supremacy.
It was my lot to meet with a clergyman of the
Church of England who held these views; and the
practical outcome of his opinions seemed to me suffi¬
ciently curious to form an interesting subject for a
paper. After many years’ anxious struggle he accepted
the facts of Spiritualism, and assured me that, when
he had done so, a new light seemed to enter his mind
in the way of interpreting Scripture. “ I found,” he
said, “ I had been a Spiritualist all my life without
knowing it.” He determined to read his Bible through
again from beginning to end, and to put an asterisk
against every case of plain Spiritual interference,
analogous, as it appeared to him, to what he saw nightly
taking place at the Spirit-circle. “ The result was,”
he said, “ I found every page of my Bible starred over
when I had got to the end of my pleasant task.”
He then resolved to organise a seance at his own
house, which should be strictly a religious service. He
would have no sceptics, either Spiritualistic or reli¬
gious, present. He would have it on Sunday evening,
after the day’s duty was over (for he was in full work,
with a large parish in his charge), deeming that the
influences would then be best. He selected one or two
seriously-minded persons to be present with his family,
and was polite enough, on one occasion, to invite me to
fill a vacant place. The same circle, as far as possible,
always met; but sickness caused the interruption in
this particular case. The presence of a stranger, no
doubt, affected the results on that evening, for it had
begun to assume almost the character of a “ miracle-
circle, ”^if all I heard was true. It is, however, rather
in the light of a religious service than a mere seance that
I wish to regard what I saw—an evidence how the
Spiritualistic movement is being taken up and incor¬
porated into what seemed for a long time the counter
current of established religion in England.
We were six in all, three ladies and three gentlemen,
one of the latter being the clergyman, the second his
organist, and the third myself. Two of the ladies
were married; and the third, young and single, had
a fine voice, and acted as precentress in the musical
service which ensued. It was held in a small back
room or study, fitted up simply as a little oratory. On
an oak library table were two candles and a standard
cross, while religious pictures and photographs of lost
loved ones were hung on the wall. A hassock was
placed in front of this quasi-altar, and my friend the
clergyman, clad in the cassock he had just worn at
service, took his place here, while the organist presided
at the harmonium. The ladies and myself stood round
the little chess table where we were to hold our seance.
The service itself was bright and cheerful, and largely
resembled the Compline Office which—originally be¬
longing to the Roman Church-—has been adopted in
many families in place of ordinary “Prayers” at bed¬
time, and in some churches as late Evensong. That
service commences with the words, r May the Almighty
grant us a quiet night and a perfect end; ” in place of
which was substituted the appropriate text:—
God is a Spirit; and they that worship Him must worship
Him in spirit and in truth.
This was monotoned upon a musical note, and the
circle responded, with harmonium accompaniment,
“ Amen.”
Then followed the Lord’s Prayer, and the supplica¬
tion for purity from the Communion Office :—
Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name.
Thy kingdom come ; Thy will be done in earth as it is in
Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread ; and forgive us
our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us ;
and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: for
Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory ; for ever
and ever. Amen.
Almighty God unto whom all hearts be open, all desires
known, and from whom no secrets are hid ; cleanse the
thoughts of our hearts by the inspiration of Thy Holy Spirit,
that we may perfectly love Thee . and worthily magnify Thy
holy name, through Christ our Lord. Amen.
Then was sung to the beautiful Gregorian chant
called the “ Angels’ Tone,” Psalm 91 from the Prayer-
book, the minister and his little choir taking alternate
verses, with harmonium accompaniment for each:—
1. Whoso dwelleth under, the defence of the most High:
shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
2. I will say unto the Lord, Thou art my hope, and my
strong hold: my God, in him will I trust.
3. For he shall deliver thee from the snare of the hunter:
and from the noisome pestilence.
340
THE S PI HITU ALI SjT.
Oct. 1, 1873.
4. He shall defend thee under his wings, and thou shalt be
safe under his feathers: his faithfulness and truth shall be thy
shield and buckler.
5. Thou shalt not be afraid for any terror by night: nor for
the arrow that flieth by day.
6. For the pestilence that walketh in darkness: nor for the
sickness that destroyeth in the noon-day.
7. A thousand shall fall beside thee, and ten thousand at
thy right hand: but it shall not come nigh thee.
8. Yea, with thine eyes shalt thou behold: and see the re¬
ward of the ungodly.
9. For thou, Lord, art my hope : thou hast set thine house
of defence very high.
10. There shall no evil happen unto thee: neither shall any
plague come nigh thy dwelling.
11. For he shall give his angels charge over thee: to keep
thee in all thy ways.
12. They shall bear thee in their hands: that thou hurt
not thy foot against a stone.
18. Thou shalt go upon the lion and adder: the young lion
and the dragon shalt thou tread under thy feet.
14. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I
deliver him: I will set him up, because he hath known my
Name.
15. He shall call upon me, and I will hear him : yea, I am
with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and bring him to
honour.
16. With long life will I satisfy him: and show him my
salvation.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son: and to the Holy
Ghost;
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be: world
without end. Amen.
After this followed a short lesson from the Gospels,
which, on the occasion in question, was the following
(St. John xx. 19):—
The same day at evening, being the first day of the week,
when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled
for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stgod in the midst, and
saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when he had so
said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then
were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Then said
Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: As my Father hath
sent me, even so I send you. And when he had said this, he
breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy
Ghost.
This was succeeded hy Keble’s Evening Hymn, which
has now virtually supplanted Ken’s familiar “ Glory to
Thee, my God, this night.” It was sung to the tune
No. 11 in “ Hymns Ancient and Modern.”
Sun of my soul, Thou Saviour dear,
It is not night if Thou be near;
O may no earth-born cloud arise
To hide Thee from Thy servant’s eyes.
When the soft dews of kindly sleep
My wearied eyelids gently steep,
Be my last thought how sweet to rest
For ever on my Saviour’s breast.
Abide with me from morn till eve,
For without Thee I cannot live;
Abide with me when night is nigh,
For without Thee I dare not die.
If some poor wandering child of Thine
Have spurned to-day the voice divine,
Now, Lord, the gracious work begin ;
Let him no more lie down in sin.
Watch by the sick: enrich the poor 1
With blessings from Thy, boundless store;
Be every mourner’s sleep to-night,
Like infant’s slumbers, pure and light.
Come near and bless us when we wake,
Ere through the world our way we take,
Till in the ocean of Thy love
We lose ourselves in heaven above.
Amen.
Then came the following prayers. 1. From the
Burial Service:—
Almighty God, with whom do live the spirits of them that
depart hence in the Lord, and with whom the souls of the
faithful, after they are delivered from the burden of the flesh,
are in joy and felicity; We give thee hearty thanks, for all
those whom it hath pleased thee to deliver out of the mise¬
ries of this sinful world; beseeching thee, that it may please
thee, of thy gracious goodness, shortly to accomplish the
number of thine elect, and to hasten thy kingdom; that we,
with all those that are departed in the true faith of thy holy-
Name, may have our perfect consummation and bliss, both in
body and soul, in thy eternal and everlasting glory; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
2. From the Prayer for the Church Militant here in
earth:—
We humbly beseech Thee of Thy goodness, O Lord, to
comfort and succour all them who in this transitory life are
in trouble, sorrow, need, sickness, or any other adversity.
And we also bless Thy holy Name for all Thy servants
departed this life in Thy faith and fear, beseeching Thee to
give us grace so to follow their good examples, that with
them we may be partakers of Thy heavenly kingdom. Grant
this, 0 Father, for Jesus Christ’s sake, our only Mediator and
Advocate. Amen.
3. Collect for All Saints’ Day
0 Almighty God, who hast knit together Thine elect in one
communion and fellowship, in the mystical body of Thy Son
Christ our Lord, grant us grace so to follow Thy blessed
saints in all virtuous and godly living, that we may come to
those unspeakable joys which Thou hast prepared for them
that unfeignedly love Thee, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Amen.
4. Collect for Michaelmas Day :—
O Everlasting God, who hast ordained and constituted the
services of angels and men in a wonderful order, mercifully
grant that as Thy holy angels alway do Thee service in
heaven, so by Thy appointment they may succour and defend
us on earth, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
5. A Prayer of St. Chrysostom:—
Almighty God, who hast given us grace at this time with
one accord to make our common supplications unto Thee, and
dost promise, that when two or three are gathered together
in Thy Name, Thou wilt grant their requests. Fulfil now, O
Lord, the desires and petitions of Thy servants, as may be
most expedient for them, granting us in this world knowledge
of Thy truth, and in the world to come life everlasting.
Amen.
The whole concluded with a special Benediction:—
Visit, O Lord, we beseech Thee this dwelling, and drive
far from it all snares of the enemy. May Thy holy angels
dwell with us, and preserve us in peace, both now and ever¬
more. Amen.
The Almighty Lord, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, be with
us now and for ever. Amen.
The seance which ensued was remarkable rather for
the devotional and spiritual character of the communi¬
cations than for any great display of power. I have
seen so much that I am perhaps a little blase in these
matters. My object, moreover, is rather to describe
the service than the seance; and I cannot help regard¬
ing it as an indication of a new phase in Spiritualism ;
possibly of the dying out of the old antagonism between
the new movement and what is technically termed
“ the Faith.”
Spibit Identity.—Judge Edmunds, of New York, says:
—“ To convince my daughter that it was not her own mind,
they [the spirits] told her of the loss of a steamer, which had
left this port for California only a few days before, laden with
soldiers. They [the spirits] said, that vessel had foundered at
sea, that over one hundred passengers had beemswept over¬
board, and that the residue had been taken off by three vessels
bound for different ports. In the course of a few days after
the news came of the wreck, confirming, in every respect, the
statement which had been made. ”
Oct. m 1873.
THE SPIHITUALIST.
341
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRADFORD.
The meeting at Bradford, Yorkshire, of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, came to a
close last Thursday. No attempt was made to bring
Spiritualism before any of the sections, but one or two
subjects connected with psychology came under the
notice of one of the Biological departments. Several
persons interested in Spiritualism, either as its sup¬
porters, its opponents, or vindicators of the reality of
the phenomena, were present at the meeting, including
Mr. "William Crookes, Dr. Huggins, Dr. Carpenter, Dr.
Tyndall, Mr. J. T. Taylor, Mr. Andrew Leighton, Mr.
Humphreys, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. and Mrs. Guppy,
Mr. Moncure D. Conway, and Mr. Harrison.
The most important paper brought under the notice
of the British Association this year, was the one by Pro¬
fessor Perrier, throwing much light upon the control of the
body by the brain, and telling powerfully in favour of
phrenology, against which Dr. Carpenter has written;
he, however, faced the facts boldly, and made the best of
a bad bargain. An article in the Times, containing as
much about Dr. Carpenter as did the article on Spiri¬
tualism in the Quarterly Review, thus briefly describes
the work done by Professor Perrier :—“ His method of
proceeding has been to place an animal under chloroform,
to remove a portion of the skull and of the dura mater,
or dense membrane beneath it, and then to apply two
electric conductors to the brain itself, or rather to the
inner membranes which immediately cover it. In these
experiments the Paradic or induced electric current has
been employed, and it is found that if the current ex¬
ceeds a certain strength, general excitement or disturb¬
ance is produced. When, however, the current is very
feeble, so that it may be presumed to flow only along
the most direct path from conductor to conductor, and
to influence only the portion of brain lying between
them, it is found that the results are constant and de¬
finite, and that stimulation of the same part of. the sur¬
face of a hemisphere produces always the same move¬
ment, not only in the same animal, but in all animals.
Thus, when the conductors include one portion of brain
a front limb is moved in some determinate direction;
when they include another, a hind limb is moved in¬
stead ; and a great variety of actions may thus be called
forth with absolute certainty, and the limbs of the un¬
conscious animal may be played upon, so to speak, at the
will of the operator.”
The following is a report of the proceedings, and the
discussion :—
THE LOCALISATION OE FUNCTIONS IN THE BRAIN.
A paper on this subject was read by Professor Ferrier. He
said all were agreed that the brain was the medium of feeling,
thought, and action, but whether there were certain parts of
the brain devoted to particular manifestations, was a subject
on which very imperfect speculations had hitherto been
formed and no definite scientific opinion arrived at. Pro¬
fessor Sequard, a high authority in such cases, held the view
that the brain, as a whole, subserved mental operations, and
that there were no parts specially devoted to any particular
functions. This view seemed to be the general one, and rested
chiefly on the numerous facts of disease with which we were
acquainted. There were cases where extensive tracts of brain
were destroyed by disease, or removed after a fracture, ap¬
parently with no injurious result as regarded the mind of the
individual. There were, however, curious facts which did not
seem to agree with this doctrine. In the case of aphasia, for
instance, when a certain part of the brain was diseased, the
individual .could not express himself in words. Dr. Hughlings
Jackson described several other curious phenomena, viz., that
certain tumourS or pathological lesions in particular parts of
the brain gave rise, by the irritation which they kept up, to
epileptiform convulsions of the whole of one side, or of the
arm or leg, or the muscles of the face, and, from the way in
which these convulsions showed themselves, he was able to
localise very accurately the seat of the lesion. The great
difficulty in the study of the function of the brain had been
in the want of a proper method. When the function of a
nerve was studied it was either irritated by scratching or by
electricity or by chemical action, or it was cut; but, in regard
to the brain and nervous system, the method had been almost
entirely, until recently, the method of section. It had been
stated by physiologists that it was impossible to excite the
brain into action by any stimulus that might be applied to it,
even that of an electric current. .Methods of destroying part
of the brain had, therefore, been resorted to. This was liable
to many fallacies. The brain was such a complex organ that
the destruction of'one part necessarily destroyed other parts,
and the phenomena were so complex that their loss could not
be attributed to the failure only of the parts which the physio¬
logists had attempted to destroy. About three years ago, two
German physiologists, Fritsch and Hitzig, bypassing galvanic
currents through parts of the brains of dogs, obtained various
movements of the limbs, such as adduction, flexion, and ex¬
tension. They had thus discovered an important method of
research, but they did not pursue their experiments to the
extent they might have done, and perhaps did not sufficiently
appreciate the significance of the facts at which they had ar¬
rived. He (Dr. Ferrier) had been led to certain experiments
by observing the effects of epilepsy and chorea, which were
generally supposed to depend upon irritation of parts of the
brain. He endeavoured to imitate the effects of disease on
the lower animals, and determined to adopt the plan of stimu¬
lating the parts of the brain by electricity, after the manner de¬
scribed by Fritsch and Hitzig. Professor Ferrier then proceeded
to explain, by the aid of numerous diagrams, the anatomy of the
brain in men and animals, and described the various results
produced by stimulating the different convolutions by electri¬
city, by means of electrodes. He had operated on nearly a
hundred animals of all classes, such as fish, frogs, fowls,
pigeons, rats, guinea-pigs, rabbits, cats, dogs, jackals, and
monkeys. The plan was to remove the skull and keep the
animal in a state of insensibility by putting it under the
influence of chloroform. So little was the operation felt that
he had known a monkey, with one side of the skull removed,
to awake out of the state induced by chloroform and proceed
to catch flies, or eat bread and butter. A little refreshment
was sometimes given to the animal when exhausted during
the course of the operation. From experiments made upon
the brain of a cat he (Professor Ferrier) found that on apply¬
ing the electrode to a portion of the superior convolution, the
animal lifted its shoulder and paw on the opposite side to
that stimulated ; and by stimulating other parts of the same
convolution the paw was suddenly brought back or put out as
if to grasp something, or brought forward its hind leg as if
about to walk, or held back its head as if astonished, or
turned it on one side, as if looking at something. Again, a
drawing up of the side of the face, a backward movement of
the whiskers, a turning of the head, and a contraction of the
pupil were produced by stimulating the various parts of the
middle external convolution. By touching the lower external
convolution, certain movements of the angles of the mouth
were produced. The animal opened its mouth widely, moved its
tongue, and uttered loud cries, or mewed in a lively way,
sometimes starting up and lashing its tail as if in a furious
rage. He had found the same results occur from the same
causes in the case of the other animals, in some of which th%
convolutions of the brain were not so clearly defined as in
others, although by stimulating what seemed to be the cor¬
responding parts, the same results were obtained. The frontal
part of the brain was broader and larger in man than in the
monkey and other animals, which, no doubt, correspond to the
intellectual development. There was also a peculiarity common
both to man and the lower animals. For instance, in making
strong exertions to grasp anything there was a great tendency
to twist the mouth on the same side as the hand or limb
which made the exertion, which was stated by Oken to be
due to homology, existing between the upper limbs and upper
jaw ; so that these homologies of expression were to a great
extent explained by the action of the brain, which was im¬
pressed when one was made to act powerfully. He was not
in a position to say anything definitely as to the psychological
signification of these topics, as it was a difficult problem. The
movements described were all expressive movements, and
movements of volition—not simple movements, but evidently
the expression of volition or design on the part of the indi-
342
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Got. 1, 1873.
vidual. There was'every reason to believe, therefore, that when
these parts of the brain were stimulated, that there were ideas
excited in the brains of the animals experimented upon,
although it would be a difficult matter to say what these ideas
were. There was, no doubt, a very close relation between
muscular movements and certain ideas which, no doubt,
would be explained in the course of time. This view was
supported by the effects of epilepsy. When the brain was in
a state of disease, and the centre part irritated, very fre¬
quently epileptic insanity came on, and ideas arose in the
mind which would incite a man to attack and destroy, or which
would lead him to homicidal impulses. This was also
supported by the disease .known as general paralysis, when
all voluntary movements of the hands were almost entirely
paralysed. In this case the individual was unable to put
his hand to his mouth, and yet would boast of his strength.
The most important guide on the pyschological signification
of these facts was the disease known as aphasia. The part of
the brain which evidently was the seat of the memory of
words was that part which governed the movements of the
mouth and tongue. Here, then, was something to guide us.
This was the case not only in the monkey, but pathologically
in man and the lower animals. In aphasia the disease was
generally on the left side of the brain, and what was called
the posterior part of the inferior frontal convolution. The
effect of the disease was to render the person unable to speak.
It was generally associated with paralysis of the right hand,
and that part of the brain affected was nearly related to that
which governed the movements of the right hand. It was
essential to remember that the movements of the mouth
were governed bilaterally for each hemisphere. The brain
was symmetrical, and it was a mistake to suppose that the
faculty of speech was localised on the left side of the brain.
The reason why an individual lost his speech when the left
side of the brain was diseased, was simply that most persons
being right-handed were therefore left-brained, the left side
of the brain governing the right side of the body. Men
naturally seized one thing with the right hand, and as natur¬
ally used rather the left side of the brain than the right, and
when there was disease there, he felt as if he had suddenly
lost the use of his right arm. The learned professor next
alluded to the results of stimulating the different ganglia.
Stimulation of the corpora streata caused the limbs to be
flexed; the corpora quadrigemina produced, when the anterior
tubercles were acted upon, an intense dilation of the pupil, a
tendency to draw back the head and extend the limbs as in
opisthotoros ; while the stimulation of the posterior tubercles
led to the production of all kinds of noises. By stimulating
the cerebellum various movements of the eyeballs were pro¬
duced.
Dr. George Harley congratulated Professor Perrier on
the able address he had delivered. He was sure that every
one in the room, whether possessed of scientific knowledge or
not, had perfectly understood the subject. He then alluded
to the effect of mental emotion, caused by accidents or sudden
news, on the various functions of the body. Referring to
phrenology, he said it was one thing to localise functions in
the interior of the brain, and another thing to specify what
function was by the manipulation of the external cranium.
Along with tiue science, there had always gone a pseudo¬
science, which, instead of aiding true science, had the effect
of turning men’s minds in the wrong direction.
Dr. Carpenter also congratulated Dr. Perrier on his
address, and the success of his experiments, remarking that
science ought to be proud of such an experimenter. He was
of opinion that the cortical substance of the brain was the
portion which did the work, and it was on that substance,
according to Dr. Perrier, that the stimulus given by electricity
acted, and the first result was to give an intensification of the
circulation through the cortical substance. His general view
of the modus operandi of these localised stimulations was, that
it produced not only the movement itself, but also the idea¬
tional state, wnich was the muscular cause of the movement,
and which, in its turn, played down upon the automatic ap¬
paratus of the brain, and caused the will. He believed, along
with Dr. Perrier, that the intellectual faculties of man were
in the posterior portion of the brain—a theory directly op¬
posed to phrenology, which placed the animal functions at
the back, and the intellectual faculties at the anterior part of
the brain.
Dr. Brunton was of opinion that the power of self-restraint,
which distinguished man from the lower animals, was in the
interior part of the brain, and instanced the skulls of criminals
which were generally low in the forehead. Speaking of the
necessity of a plentiful supply of blood to the brain, he said
that in his own experience he had found that, when he wanted
to collect his ideas, and to have them flow freely, he found it
best to have his head in as low a position as possible. The
reason why dyspepsia was so common among literary men was
that the stomach was deprived of the necessary quantity of
blood which was required to stimulate the brain for its large
amount of work.
Professor Sanderson was of opinion that 'the surface cere¬
bral convolutions were similar to the excitation of an ordinary
nerve, and that congestion took place whenever the stimulus
was given.
Dr. Crichton Brown begged to say a word in favour of the
phrenologists, whom he characterised as a defunct and much
despised sect. He did not think that, amid all the inquiries
as to the localisation of functions in the brain, the labours of
Gall, Spurzheim, and their disciples, and the benefits derived
from their researches, ought to be forgotten. More than half
a century ago, when little was known about the brain, they
proclaimed the great'truths that the brain was the organ of
the mind, and that the various powers of the mind were
located in separate and distinct portions of the brain. He
bore personal testimony to the wonderful experiments made
by Dr. Ferrier, and the magical effects produced, and said it
was a matter of no small congratulation that the first of these
experiments took place in the county of York, where they were
now assembled.
Dr. Ferrier, in reply, said that he had no doubt the experi¬
ments made would ultimately lead to a distinct and scientific
phrenology. Whether the old phrenologists were right or
wrong in their theory, there could be no doubt that the facul¬
ties were localised. The great work now to be done was to
further ascertain the exact scientific localisation of the dif¬
ferent faculties by examining scientifically the convolutions of
the brain, a work which Gall had begun, but which unfor¬
tunately he left off for the more unsatisfactory science of
phrenology.
The proceedings then closed.
PHOTOGRAPHING THE INYISIBLE.
Some time since /we pointed out to the editor of the
British Journal of Photography a method of producing
sham-ghost pictures not generally known to photo¬
graphers themselves; it was based upon the fluor¬
escent properties of bisulphate of quinine, sesculine, and
some few substances besides. This was at the time
when the mixture of sham with some real spirit-pictures
caused much needless contention among people ignorant
of the science of photography. The following brief
report of a portion of the proceedings of the Physical
Science section, last Wednesday, may, therefore, be of
interest:—
Dr. J. H. Gladstone, F.R.S., called attention to some photo¬
graphs of fluorescent substances. Fluorescent substances, such
ars bisulphate of quinine or uranium glass, have the power of
altering the refrangibility of the violet or chemical rays of
light, hence although paper painted over with bisulphate of
quinine will look nearly white, it will appear in a photograph
as if it were nearly black. Dr. Gladstone exhibited some
photographs of ornamental designs traced on white paper
with bisulphate of quinine ; although the designs were nearly
invisible to the eye, in the photographs they were boldly
visible. A colourless solution of bisulphate of quinine was
placed in one glass, and some ink in another glass ; when
both glasses were photographed they came out equally black.
Dr. Gladstone said that once at the seaside, he painted a pat¬
tern with bisulphate of quinine upon paper, and took the
paper to a photographer to be photographed; he objected,
because there was nothing on the paper, but on trying the
experiment he found out his error.
Mr. Wenham said that some varnishes were beautifully
fluorescent, especially those which contained some of the pro¬
ducts of coal tar distillation.
Mr. Taylor asked whether an invisible picture, such as a
ghost, could not be painted on a background, yet become
visible in a photograph of that background ?
Dr. Gladstone: Yes.  
PROFESSOR TYNDALL AND THE SPIRITS,'
Last Thursday the Bradford Chronicle published a
leading article, announcing that Professor Tyndall
Oct. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
343
would be President of the British Association next
year at Belfast, and in summing up his virtues and his
failings, it said :—
When Professor Tyndall has the chance of writing a sensa¬
tion article he does not always lose the opportunity. Once he
went to the house of a gentleman to witness spirit-rapping
phenomena, and wrote a lively article about what he saw,
telling how he did clever things by making his muscles crack
and the room vibrate, which effects those present believed to
be done by spirits ; and he tells how he left the house without
undeceiving his host. At the same time he narrates how he
heard raps, which he did not make, coming from the table
beneath his nose, and that he did not discover whence the
raps came. . And a peculiar buzzing noise was heard, made,
he says, jiofc by spirits, but by his whiskers setting up vibra¬
tions ipf a wine glass. A capital experiment this ! He should
play a tune with his whiskers on a wine glass at Belfast, and
explode Spiritualism to the air of “ Down Among the Dead
Men.” Or he might do it here in Bradford, now that the
celebrated medium, Mrs. Guppy, is in our midst, in company
with Mr. Guppy, both of them associates of the British Asso¬
ciation.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Leading Spiritualists are beginning to return to
town, and from information which has reached us
from various sources just before going to press, it is
very certain that the expression of national opinion,
given at Liverpool by the representatives of all the
chief towns and Spiritual societies in the kingdom, will
ultimate in action. For a long time past it has been
felt throughout the country that there should be a re¬
presentative body, elected by subscribers, to take public
action, to control expenditure, and to publish regular
balance sheets. This want has been especially felt in
London, because the absence of any representative
body has kept metropolitan Spiritualists in a state of
unwilling inactivity during the past three years, to
such an extent that Liverpool and other provincial
towns have done more than London to promote regular
public meetings and lectures, and to engage speakers.
A general organisation, whereby those who subscribe
capital to aid Spiritualism, keep the expenditure under
their own control through their elected officers, is above
all things needed at the present moment.
Many suggestions are floating as to the first work
which it is desirable that the National Association
should undertake. Our suggestion is, that it should
steadily attempt to obtain maximum results by a mini¬
mum of expenditure, and, by a wise economy, secure
so much public confidence as to make its permanent
and useful existence not only a certainty but an abso¬
lute necessity. It can best do this by supplementing
local effort—by giving just enough stimulus to secure
permanent action where latent energy already exists.
For instance, if the Ralston Society were given a hall
on Sunday evenings, free of cost, regular public meet¬
ings or services would be established there, since collec¬
tions at the doors and local energy would do the rest.
The same may be said of the St. John’s Association,
in Clerkenwell, and the same may be said of Brixton
Spiritualists, who are somewhat numerous and influen¬
tial. Mr. Enmore Jones, the representative of orthodox
Spiritualists, has started some meetings in Gower-street,
and he speaks in another column of the necessity for
funds. The National Association might very well pay
the cost of the Gower-street rooms fqr him one evening
per week, leaving personal and public interest in the
matter to do the rest. Thus, if by merely engaging
four halls on moderate terms, permanent weekly meet¬
ings can be established in' four different parts of London,
most of our speakers will be kept regularly full of work,
and the subject agitated to an extent which could,
hardly take place by inaugurating anything not supple--
mented and controlled by local effort. The effeet -of
opening many, halls where public speaking is regularly
required, will be beneficial to the lecturers connected;
with the movement. Hitherto their position in London ,
has been a hard one, for nearly all their work has been*
gratuitous, and in many instances their talents have b4en;
used to clear off debts they had no share in incurring^
so that they have really placed metropolitan Spiritual¬
ists under somewhat strong obligations. The probability
is that before the National Association has been long at
work, it will have funds enough to establish, not only
permanent regular meetings, but great meetings at one
central place in London. In any case, the Association;
should work well within its expenses, and gain the.
reputation of being the best thing connected with
Spiritualism for the economical management of funds,
under the management of the subscribers themselves. J
PILGRIMAGES AND THEIR CAUSES.
To those who have obtained some insight into the
nature of manifestations of the supernatural, the lan¬
guage of the press concerning the recent Pilgrimages
has been not a little amusing. Yery curious it has
been to observe how completely at sea its writers have
been on the subject. Gladly, no doubt, would they
have ignored it, but that they could not do, for, as the
Times declared, it was literally impossible to shut one’s
ears to it. In spite, therefore, of distaste, Contempt,
and all unconscious of the underlying truth, they had
to write about it, had to descant on this—to their
idea—simply bewildering relapse into mediaeval super-
stitution. The consequence has been that we have
been treated to a quantity of speculation concerning it
more or less trite, ingenious, or hazy, in no instance
showing any glimmering perception of the true causes
at work. Alone among its beholders students of the
spiritual phenomena have followed the movement with
intelligent curiosity, perceiving the real facts which are
its source, while smiling at the idea of the divine cha¬
racter attributed to them. In our eyes there is nothing
surprising in belief in the apparitions of La Salette,
Paray-Monial, and Lourdes, for have we not beheld
similar things ourselves ? not in holy places, but in
ordinary places, at meetings conducted after a purely
secular fashion.
Widely different, however, as is the Spiritualistic
view of the miraculous from that taken by the general
public, we still cannot but share to some extent in the
feelings which have been excited in it by the recent
exhibitions of misdirected religious enthusiasm. But
while deploring the ignorance in which the Church of
Rome is sunk as to manifestations from the spiritual
world, we feel the assurance that such a light is about
to be thrown on them, as must in time show the
erroneousness of the belief that they are marks of favour
vouchsafed to her from heaven. It will, we believe, be
impossible, before long, for the more reflecting adherents
of the Roman Catholic faith to conceal from themselves
that the appearances from another world which have
impressed them so deeply, are of the same origin and
character as those which have in all times occurred, ir¬
respectively of creeds—that such visions as those of
which we have heard so much lately were simply forms
assumed, and symbols devised by spirits of the same
order as those, for ihstahce^ Which appeared to the
344
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1873,
Emperor Julian in the guise of the Olympian gods, as
that which appeared to Mahomet, and wrote, as he
declared, a book upon his heart.
Our statesmen little dream of the service which may
some day he rendered to them by Spiritualism in regard
to one of their chief difficulties. The increase of priestly
influence in Ireland, and the pretensions of the Church
of Rome becoming there more and more exorbitant,
and,defeating the best laid legislative, and educational
schemes, can receive a check from no other quarter.
J. H. D.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. AND MRS. HOWITT.
The good work which Mr. and Mrs. William Howitt
have done for Spiritualism, is so well known as to
require no comment; Mr. Howitt’s History of the
Supernatural is a standard text-book in connection
with the history of Spiritual phenomena. It is, there¬
fore, pleasing to be able to state that Mr. Benjamin
Coleman, and a few of his friends, have subscribed <£50,
with which Mr. Coleman purchased a portrait of Mr.
Howitt, and, in the names of himself and the sub¬
scribers, presented it to Mrs. Howitt. The following
is the correspondence on the subject:—
Upper Norwood, Sept. 11th, 1873..
My dear Mr. Howitt,—You have been, I believe, already
apprised by your daughter, Mrs. Watts, that I have succeeded
—in response to my personal applications to a few friends—
in obtaining the means of purchasing your portrait, which
the late Mr. Thomas Heaphy, the artist, considered one of his
best efforts, and that I am authorised to present it to Mrs.
Howitt by the ladies and gentlemen whose names are ap¬
pended to an address to yourself, which accompanies the
picture. I content myself by saying that it affords me very
sincere pleasure to hand these testimonials of respect and
friendship to you and Mrs. Howitt, and with best wishes to
you both, I am, my dear Mr. Howitt, very truly yours,
Benjamin Coleman.
Wm. Howitt, Esq., Esher, Surrey.
The following is the address, which was beautifully
illuminated, written on parchment, and enclosed in a
handsome frame:—
To Mr. William Howitt.
In testimony of our appreciation of your literary efforts
for the best interests of humanity, and for your firm advocacy
of a pure and elevating Spiritualism ; we,. a few of your
many friends, have the pleasure of presenting to Mrs. Howitt
your portrait (painted by the late Mr. Thomas Heaphy), as a
token of our personal regard for your private worth, and our
acknowledgement of the great services you have.rendered to
all who have come within the sphere of your most useful
labours.
Edward Ackworth
Annib Ackworth.
Charles Blackburn.
The Countess of Caithness.
Benjamin Coleman.
Lisette C. Deekens.
Alexander L. Elder.
Mary E. Elder.
Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
Thomas Grant.
Samuel Carter Hall.
Anna Maria Hall.
Mary Hennings.
Catherine Hamilton.
John Enmore Jones.
Algernon Joy.
Andrew Leighton.
George N. Strawbridge.
Ann Strawbridge.
Thomas Shorter.
John Bidley.
Annie Ridley.
James Watson.
William White.
William M. Wilkinson.
Elizabeth Wilkinson%
The following acknowledgment has been received
from Mr. Howitt:—
: Dietenheim-Bruneck Tyrol, Sept. 15th, 1873.
My dear Mr. Coleman,-—Yours of the 11th inst. I received
yesterday, and thank you for all the loving care’about the
portrait of myself, painted by the late Mr. Thomas Heaphy,
which you kindly informed me you, and a number of our
mutual Spiritualistic friends; have bought to present to Mrs.
Howitt.: Your letter also enclosed: a copy of a testimonial
addressed to me, with the nanies of the subscribers to the
purchase and presentation of the picture. I thank you and
them most cordially for the expression of your estimation of
such services as I have been able to render to our common
cause, and with best wishes, I remain, yours faithfully,
William Howitt.
The following letter has also been received from Mrs.
Howitt:—
Mayr-am-Hof, Dietenheim Tyrol, Sept. 15th, 1873.
My dear Mr. Coleman,—Very cordially do I thank you and
my other kind friends, who have made me the possessor of
Mr. Heaphy’s portrait of my husband.
I feel much touched and complimented by this mark of their
friendship and regard, and request that you will have the
kindness to convey to them the expression of my sincere and
grateful acknowledgment.
By our son in Australia and his children, this portrait of
the father and grandfather, will be highly esteemed, not only
for its intrinsic merits and its value as a family heirloom, but
also for the interesting and gratifying circumstance to which
they are indebted for its possession.
In conclusion let me add that both my husband and myself
entertained a warm regard for Mr. Heaphy, and it was with
sincere regret that we heard of his removal from this life. The
occasions on which we had the pleasure of seeing him at
Esher for the few sittings requisite for this portrait, will be
pleasantly remembered by us, as the means of making us
better acquainted with a very genial nature, and a mind sin¬
gularly rich in a varied life experience.
Accept, dear Mr. Coleman, my sincere regards, and believe
me to remain your obliged friend, Mary Howitt.
The following letter closes the correspondence :—
Dear Mr. Coleman,—I know not how to thank you for
the very kind interest you have taken in my affairs.
' The fifty pounds you have been the means of getting me
for the portrait of Mr. Howitt has done me the greatest
service. It has enabled me to outfit and pay the passage of
one of my boys (seventeen years of age) to Canada, where
employment is offered him.
My youngest girl of twelve will, I believe, be taken in at
an excellent school at Tunbridge Wells—the artist orphanage,
which was mainly instituted, originally, by the suggestion
and energy of my late husband. I feel so gratified that it is to
you that I am so much indebted, for my husband entertained
the highest opinion of you, and regarded you with feelings
truly brotherly. I beg you to make my thanks known to all
those ladies and gentlemen who have so kindly taken part in
this transaction, and with best wishes and thanks to yourself,
Believe me ever, dear Mr. Coleman, your obliged,
Eliza Heaphy.
46, Sussex-street, Pimlico, Sept. 22nd, 1873.
TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman is working actively in the
matter of getting up a testimonial for presentation to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, as announced in the last
number of The Spiritualist; subscriptions are limited
to five shillings from each contributor. The work
Judge Edmonds has done for the benefit of Spiritualism
is so great, that it is to be hoped that the suggestion of
a graceful little tribute from this side of the Atlantic
will meet with a good response. Mr. Coleman’s ad¬
dress is 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, London,
S.E.
The standard works of Judge Edmonds ought to he
more readily accessible in England, some instances hav¬
ing come under our knowledge of special orders having
been sent from London to Nerw York to get single
copies of his chief book on Spiritualism.. Can- he' not
imitate the example of Mr. Dale Owen, and place Ijis
books on sale tfirough the agency .of Messrs. Triibnef
and Co., who are good publishers, of high* standing,"and*
who issue all the best standard works on the subject,
including The Deba fable Land, Blanchette, Hints for the
Evidences^ of Spiritualism, Apparitions, and FootfalU oil
the Boundary of Another World,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
345
Oct. 1, 1873.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “THE SPIRITUALIST.”
Early in November next, the weekly publication of
The Spiritualist will begin. This journal was started
at a time when there was no newspaper in this country
connected with the Spiritual movement, when the want
of a newspaper was frequently spoken of from public
platforms, and when Spiritualists were obliged to send
to Worship-street for copies of the Eastern Post, to
obtain reports of the evidence on Spiritualism given
before the Dialectical Society. As it was called into
existence in 1869 by the popular demand, and has all
along made many kind friends and supporters, it is
hoped that still stronger support will be given to it
when it makes its appearance weekly, in accordance
with the programme printed in the first number issued.
ARRIVAL OF MR. PEEBLES IN ENGLAND.
Mb. J. M. Peebles and Dr. Dunn have just arrived in
England, after a tour round the world to collect and dissemi¬
nate information about Spiritualism. Last night they met a
few friends at Mr. Burns’ place of business, 15, Southampton-
row, Holborn, W.C., where they narrated many of their expe¬
riences. They only remain in England about a week longer.
Mr. Peebles, we are sorry to say, seems fatigued and somewhat
worn out by his travels, but will, no doubt, quickly recover his
usual health and spirits soon after his return home.
Eighteen months ago, Mr. Peebles and Dr. Dunn crossed
the American continent, and spent four months lecturing in
California. They then sailed for Honolulu, Sandwich Islands,
where the Rev. Dr. Damon, Mr. Wilson, and the editor of the
Honolulu Advertiser, made them acquainted with many facts
relating to Spiritualism among the Kanackas, or natives.
When a native is dying, his friends sit by his bedside, and
give him messages to carry to their departed friends in the
spirit world. A short time after he is dead they go to a
certain part of the island to meet his spirit, and to receive the
replies. His spirit is usually seen, and the answers received.
The missionaries try in vain to uproot the practice, and they
call it demonology.
Our travellers next went to the Navigator Islands and other
groups in the Pacific. When they reached Australia they had
a very fine reception from the Spiritualists there ; but when
they began their lecturing they were much abused by the local
papers, with the exception of the chief one, The Melbourne
Argus, which was very fair and dignified. Mr. Peebles was
caricatured in the Melbourne Punch; aadi burlesqued at the
theatre. However, the current turned at last, and before
leaving he had immense audiences in the Prince of Wales
Theatre.
After three months in Australia they sailed for New Zealand,
where for three months their work was very successful. . Then
they sailed for China, and visited Hong Kong and Canton.
They discovered that there was an immense amount of know¬
ledge of Spiritualism, mixed with much superstition, among
the Chinese. They next sailed for Saigon, in the southern
portion of Cochin-China; afterwards they visited Singapore
for two weeks. Johore was the next stopping place; it was
especially notable for its magnificent tropical scenery. In
Calcutta, where they remained a week, they found many
Spiritualists, and that the various English periodicals circu¬
lated there; some of their contents were translated into
Bengalese. Pearychand Mittra, a man of great wealth and
influence, is a leading Spiritualist there; he is a medium, he
sees spirits, and he is a believer in Brahma still. They next
went up the Ganges to Benares, the sacred city of the Hindoos,
and saw the ceremony of burning the dead. They saw dead
bodies floating in the Ganges. Their next halting-place was
Bombay, whence they, sailed to Aden, and up the Red
Sea' in the Arretusa (Lloyd’s line); the captain was a firm
Spiritualist. ■ •
. They next visited Suez, Cairo, and the Pyramids j and they
went down into the Catacombs. While ifi the Great Pyramid
they conversed with spirits through Dr. Dunn’s mediumship,
and the spirits told them that the purposes for which the
pyramids were built were—1. In honour of the Sun God,* who
, causes the earth to bear fruit; 2. To form secure chambers
for the storing of grain and treasure in times of war; 3. That
the coffee was designed as a universal measure f<5r the world.
Palestine and Jerusalem were next visited, and the conversa¬
tions with the spirits there confirmed Mr. Peebles in his
belief of the superiority of Jesus to any other great teacher of
mankind. They sailed from Alexandria to Trieste, whence
they started for Paris by the Mont Cenis route. In Paris they
met Victor Hugo at a seance with some American ladies; he
wept like a child at some of the spirit messages which he
received.
Dr. Dunn has had nearly every kind of physical, trance, and
clairvoyant mediumship. At the present time he says he
practises only clairvoyance for healing purposes, and claims
that his mediumship in this respect is most reliable. The few
days he is in London he says that he will consent to see a few
patients in his rooms, 16, Great Ormond-street, W.C., between
eight and twelve o’clock, where his clairvoyance for diagnosing
disease may be tested; he states that his terms are
reasonable.
The experiments of Professor Ferrier, published in this
number of The Spiritualist, although of very great interest,
are painful to read from the nature of the operations, although
the animals were under the influence of chloroform. Are any
of our readers inclined to discuss the difficult question—“ To
what extent are experiments of the kind morally justifiable ? ”
The Struggle eor Liee.—A recent writer on horticul¬
ture describes the struggle for life among plants. He says,
each plant endeavours, almost unconsciously, to destroy his
neighbour, to occupy his ground, to feed upon his nutriment,
to devour his substance. There are armies and invasions of
grasses, barbarian inroads and extirpations. Every inch of
ground is contested by the weeds; the forest is a struggle for
precedence; the wars of the roses are a perennial feud. The
serenest landscape, the stillest woodland, are the mortal arena
of vegetable and animal conflict. It is a curious fact that the
English plants sent to Australia always kill out the native
plants of the same character.
Pilgrimages.—The following copy of an eccentric placard
has been forwarded to us :—“ The Unholy Pilgrimage. The
following letter has been sent to Gilbert G. Talbot, of London,
the Duke of Norfolk, and Dr. Vaughan, Bishop of Salford.—
‘ Sir,—You will see by the enclosed pamphlet how the evil
ones have the power to speak on the earth to mortals, to re¬
present Jesus Christ, to produce visions, trances, and many
things that may be considered miraculous. You will see also
that the Roman Catholic as well as all other churches that
worship Jesus Christ are under their evil, idolatrous influences.
Their great idolatry is the Roman faith—their greatest, most
direct, most recent, and most abominable, the worship of
“ Jesus Christ as the only God,” as established on the earth
by their direct voice communications and visions to Sweden¬
borg.* Your pilgrimage must be a most atrocious, blasphemous
abomination in the sight of the Almighty God.—Yours truly,
Henrt Meesou.’—* Which I also have gone through and re¬
sided.—H. M."
Mrs. Tappan’s Early Orations.—Trance mediums and
inspirational speakers are now very numerous in America, and
this form of the spiritual development has, as I have pre¬
viously said, taken the place of the earlier manifestations, and
it seems a most valuable, practical, and highly satisfactory
result. I found crowded audiences assembled to hear dis¬
courses delivered by young women who, without previous
education, have risen up from the middle and lower ranks of
society to become teachers, and whose lectures on theology,
politics, morals, and science, are delivered with a force and
eloquence which would compare favourably with the most
popular lay and clerical speakers of the present day. I heard
Mrs. Cora Hatch (Tappan), for instance, who is a young
woman of about three or four and twenty, deliver an address
which purported to be spoken through her by the spirit of
Jefferson, the American statesman. I do not stop to inquire
or to satisfy myself whether the speaker was really influenced
by the particular spirit who claimed to be present. I only
know that I listened to a marvellous piece of oratory,
delivered extempore in well chosen language without falter or
hesitation, occupying an. hour and a quarter, by a young
uneducated woman ; and I am left to say whether I can
reasonably regard it as the result of a natural genius and
ordinary training (which I am assured by herself and those
who know her well that it is not), or of some abnormal
influence, which I am told it is, and I confess that I am forced
to receive the latter as the true solution of such a phenome¬
non.—Spiritualism in America, By Benjamih Coleman.
1861,
346
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1873.
SPIRITUAL MEETINGS AT GOWER STREET.
The first of a series of three meetings, promoted by Mr.
Enmore Jones and some other Spiritualists, for the purpose of
giving public information upon Spiritualism, was held on Wed¬
nesday, the 17th September last, at Gower-street Rooms, Mr.
Enmore Jones in the chair.
The room was densely crowded before the proceedings com-'
menced, and on the platform and in the room were Messrs.
Luxmoore, Coleman, Everitt, Shorter, Burns, Daw, Harper,
Slater—besides the Rev. F. W. Monck and Dr. Sexton, who
took a prominent part in the meeting—and others well known
in connection with the movement. About two hundred per¬
sons were unable to obtain admission for want of room.
The chairman briefly announced the object of the meetings,
and after the Rev. F. W. Monck had offered prayer, said he
hoped that the sectarian element might be eliminated
from any discussion that would take place. What they, as
Spiritualists, had learned by the teaching of facts was, that
man was immortal, and that after death, our loved ones re¬
turned to earth to bless and watch over those left behind for
a season. This knowledge they wished to impart to others.
This was a creed upon which all intelligent mankind could
agree.
The Rev. F. W. Monck, in an excellent and well studied
address, referred to the opinion of Locke, that all things
ascend upwards from man towards the Infinite Perfection, as
they descend from man downwards. We were surrounded by
phenomenal existences. All nature was phenomenal. Other
philosophers believed that mind ‘and matter were equally
phenomenal. Spiritualism was evidently phenomenal, and
presented results which appealed to all minds. He then gave
a narrative of two remarkable seances in which he was the
medium. At the first, held at the residence of Mr. Beattie, at
Clifton, all those present saw, in one corner of the room, a
spirit form gradually becoming materialised. When perfect,
it was recognised as the departed mother of Mr. Beattie, to
whom it spoke and was heard by all. The last Monday he
had given a farewell seance to his Bristol friends, and as¬
tonishing physical manifestations took place. One visitor, an
eminent Unitarian minister in Bristol, was much astonished;
and owned himself convinced by what he saw, that the mani-
festions were supernatural.
At the close of Mr. Monck’s address, several people asked
questions together. Order being restored, the chairman said
that ten minutes only could be allowed to each speaker, and
that Dr. Sexton would assist Mr. Monck in replying to
objectors.
The names of the questioners were not taken by the chair¬
man, and the proceedings became somewhat disorderly. Dr.
Sexton, in reply to a query, “ How was it that the spirits did
not then and there manifest themselves on the platform ? ”
spoke at length on the conditions requisite for the spirit circle,
and in answer to a statement that no eminent or clever men
were Spiritualists, cited the names of Ashburner, Dr. Morgan,
Elliotson, Judge Edmonds, Robert Chambers, Yarley, and
others, in refutation. A lady then said that although not a
Spiritualist, she was much impressed by the earnestness and
intelligence of many who were, and the fact that they openly
courted inquiry, should secure them all respect and attention.
When so many thinking persons testified to the existence of
the phenomena, the public should carefully search the matter
out and not condemn without experiment.
Other persons put questions, but amid great confusion and
uproar on the part of some strangers present, one noisy indi¬
vidual marching up to the platform and defying the spirits to
“ levitate ” him then and there. The chairman stated that
the time for closing had arrived, but that on the following
Wednesday they would have an opportunity of further con¬
sidering the matter. Votes of thanks to the Rev. F. W.
Monck and the chairman were carried unanimously, and the
proceedings closed.
The second meeting of the series was held at the Gower-
street Rooms, on Wednesday, the 24th Sept., Mr. Jones again
occupying the chair. Some time before the proceedings
began, the rooms were densely crowded ; and when the chair¬
man announced that Dr. Sexton would deliver a lecture on
“ Spirit,” hearty applause betokened the satisfaction of the
audience, many of whom were evidently Secularists, who had
heard the lecturer before in a different field.
Dr. Sexton said the object was one which afforded great
latitude, and covered ground so extensive, that it was impos¬
sible, in a short discourse, to do it justice, Never in the
history of the civilised world was Materialism so rampant as
it was at the present day among all classes, and never was the
need of Spiritualism greater felt. It came in the right time
to astonish the positive philosophers, and teach scientific
men that matter was npt everything, but that beyond all
material existence there reigned a mighty force, that of Mind
or Spirit. In all ages there was inherent in man’s inner
nature a belief in God or in Spirit. That belief took many
forms, probably the most graceful of which, in olden days,
was the Pantheism of the Greeks. The need of proof that
man was immortal was not implanted in vain in the human
breast. The existence of the very desire to know some of the
hereafter, showed that in some way that desire was to be
satisfied. Huxley’s theories all tended to teach the grossest
materialism, although the Professor, in his later works, appa¬
rently indicated that he was not a materialist himself; but
what intelligent reader could deny the end of his teaching ?
It was, that matter was everything, and that mind was simply
an outgrowth of matter. Secularism, again, was spreading
largely among all classes, and a growing disbelief in the
existence of spirit was gaining ground everywhere. The
Secularists pointed out that some few savages, the lowest of
mankind, had no conception whatever of the Deity or of spirit,
and exhibited those poor examples as instances of men un¬
corrupted by foolish beliefs. The Secularists were welcome
to their examples; for it was well-known that such savages
were the most degraded and wretched of all human beings,
with scarce a vestige of intelligence in them. Let those
sceptics who sneered at Spiritualism, and who preferred argu¬
ment to the presentation of fact, pore on the correlation
of forces, as an able and exhaustive treatise on the subject of
mind and matter ; but men would prefer personal proof that
Spiritualism was true. That proof they might. easily obtain
by observing the necessary conditions, and bringing care and'
patience to bear on their investigations. Dr. Sexton concluded
his discourse with an eloquent peroration, in which he urged
all who had lost their dear ones, and desired to know whether
the spirit lived after leaving the body, and all who wished to
gain information on the momentous question of immortality,
to study those phenomena which the great Creator, in His
goodness and love, had caused to be manifested around
them.
The Chairman then invited those who had witnessed spiri¬
tual manifestations to come forward and give their testimony.
Dr. Gully, the Rev. F. W. Monck, Mr. Everitt, and others,
then gave narratives of what they had witnessed, amid great
uproar and interruption. Cries of “ You don’t expect us to
believe all that?” and “ Why don’t the spirits do it now?”
proceeded from a knot of persons near the door, who had
evidently attended with the intention of creating a disturb¬
ance.
Order being somewhat restored, Dr. Sexton intimated his
readiness to answer questions on the subject of his lecture.
Several points were discussed by Mr. Watts, and other ques¬
tioners whose names did not transpire. Frequent interruption
took place, and continued until the close of the meeting,
half-a-dozen people occasionally speaking at one time, endea¬
vouring to make themselves heard above the uproar. The
proceedings terminated amicably, however, with a cordial vote
of thanks to Dr. Sexton.
A correspondent says of this meeting:—“ It was a most
noisy meeting after Dr. Sexton had given his discourse. The
opposition evidently did all they could to make matters dis¬
agreeable, and howled down the less energetic speakers. I sat
next a virulent orthodox gentleman, who kept calling out,
“ Atheists ! Infidels I Why don’t your spirits manifest now ?”
I mildly suggested to him that the speakers had not got a fair
chance, and that he should be silent and let them say their
say, upon which he turned rouhd and shouted to me, “ Who’s
the biggest fool, you or I ?” I replied, “ Suppose we submit
that point to arbitration ?” to which he retortedithat I was “ a
reprobate.” In the words of Artemus Ward, ‘ I pitied him
and went.’ ”
Jencken.—On the 19th September, the wife of Henry D.
Jencken, Esq., barrister-at-law, Temple, E.C., of a son.
Perdicaris—Yarley.—On the 28th of August, 1873, at
Wiesbaden, by the Rev. Wm. Alex. Osborne, M.A., in the pre¬
sence of the United States Consul, Ion, H. Perdicaris, Esq@
to Ellen Rous Yarley.
Oct. 1, 1873.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
347
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The following is the half-yearly report of the Liverpool
Psychological Society:—
Your committee have much pleasure in laying before the
members the half-yearly report and accounts, showing the
financial position of the society, and in doing so desire to call
attention to one or two events connected with the progress of
the movement in Liverpool and the neighbourhood during
that period. Pull details of the work accomplished have been
laid before the members week by week at the ordinary meet¬
ings of the society, and the following is merely a brief sum¬
mary of the principal events of the past six months.
During that period there have been twenty-six ordinary
weekly-meetings, held at the society’s rooms, and the same
number of committee-meetings, together with eight special
meetings." There have been fifty-two Sunday services (after¬
noon and evening), and these latter have, in a great
measure, been the means of drawing the attention of the
outside public to the subject of Spiritualism. A num¬
ber of well-known trance-mediums from various parts
of the country, including Mr. J. J. Morse, Mrs. Butter¬
field, Mr. Wood, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Jackson have
been engaged, and have spoken on a variety of subjects
bearing more or less upon Spiritualism. Several local
mediums have also taken part in the Sunday services, and
have proved valuable auxiliaries to the movement. Amongst
the latter your committee refer with pleasure to Mr. Hickling
(who has developed into a good platform speaker), Mrs.
Groves, Miss Shepherd, Mrs. Lament, and Mr. Dimsdale.
Whilst upon the subject of local mediums, your committee
would recommend for consideration the advisability of setting
apart, say, one Sunday in the month for local mediums to
occupy the platform. In connection with the Sunday ser¬
vices, your committee regret to have to report that several
unseemly disturbances have occurred, arising principally out
of the rule (lately repealed), which permitted questions and
discussions at the close of the services, and your committee
recommend that this rule be rigidly upheld, and that no dis¬
cussion 1)6 allowed in future on Sundays.
Your committee notice with pleasure that Mr. Fegan-Eger-
ton has been holding weekly seances for physical manifesta¬
tions (to which the general public have been admitted), as well
as a great number of private ones, in various parts of the
country, and these have resulted, so far as your committee can
learn, in convincing a great many sceptics of the reality of
the phenomena, and in satisfying earnest truth-seekers of the
reality of spirit-intercourse.
The public bookstall in the society’s room has been the
source of a considerable amount of good. A large quantity of
books and pamphlets are sold every Sunday to members and
strangers, and much of the spiritual literature of the day has
by this means been spread abroad and circulated amongst
families who in many instances organise circles at their own
homes and establish an intercourse between the spiritual and
mundane spheres. Much of the literature which would other¬
wise remain upon the bookshelves of the publishers is thus
disposed of, and in recognition of the disinterested services of
Messrs. Chapman and Meredith in this department, your com¬
mittee notice that a vote was passed at a recent meeting,
thanking these gentlemen for their united labours in this
direction.
Your committee regret that one of the oldest members of
the society has resigned through the unfraternal acts of
another member, who has, however, since been expelled from
the society.
Meetings have" been held 'at Birkenhead, Southport, and
Kirkdale, under the society’s auspices, the mediums being Mr.
Morse and Mrs. Butterfield. At Southport Mr, Morse delivered
a lecture under the direction of Mr. John Lament, your sin¬
cere and energetic vice-president; and the result proved highly
satisfactory, the lecture being reported very fully in the local
newspapers.
Another favourable sign, which augurs well for the progress
of the movement in the future, is the formation of a number
of new societies in and about Liverpool, and it is satisfactory
to learn that these hold weekly meetings, and possess one or
more trance mediums.
The recent annual National Conference has been the means
of greatly stimulating inquiry, and your committee notice
that one of the results has been the appointing of an “ exe¬
cutive,” who are shortly to meet in London, to decide upon
future arrangements in connection with the general move¬
ment, and to fix upon a plan for the carrying out successfully
of the next conference, which is to be held in the metropolis.
A number of new members has been admitted to the
society since the beginning of the year, and the number at
present on the roll is 130.
From the auditor’s report it appears that the assets of the
society on the 30th June, 1873, consisting of books and pamph¬
lets unsold, furniture, &c., amount to £58 11s. 9d., against
liabilities amounting to £31 4s., thus leaving a balance of
£27 7s. 9 d. to the credit of the society. The auditor’s report
shows a considerable sum for overdue subscriptions, and they
would recommend that these should be applied for at once. In
view of the foregoing and the anticipated results, your committee
can heartily congratulate the members upon the general progress
of the movement, and the increasing tide of prosperity which
grows broader as the society’s movements are becoming more ex¬
tended, and your committee trust that the same harmony and
good feeling which has heretofore characterised their delibe¬
rations and discussions will continue to be shown at the future
meetings of the society, as your committee feel that without
forbearance and kindly feeling amongst the members, much
of the work which remains to be done, will if not altogether
stopped, be considerably retarded.
Signed, on behalf of the Committee,
Liverpool, August, 1873. John Chapman, Son. Sec.
Mr. J. M. Peebles will lecture next Sunday evening,
at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road. Last night Mr. Peebles and
Dr. Dunn narrated a few of their experiences incidental to
their recent journey round the world, to a few friends at the
residence of Mr. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, London.
St. John’s Association oe Spiritualists.—The above
association deserve great credit for the enterprising manner in
which they have gone about the task of bringing Spiritualism
before the attention of the inhabitants of the eastern end of
the town. On Sunday, the 21st, they commenced a series of
lectures at Goswell Hall, Goswell-road. The lecturer on this
occasion was Dr. Sexton, who generously gave his services in
order to assist in starting the advocacy of the grand truths of
Spiritualism in this neighbourhood, where he had previously
worked so long in connection with Secularism. The hall was
crowded to overflowing, hundreds being turned away who were
unable to gain admission. The subject of his oration was
“ Popular Objections against Spiritualism stated and replied
to.” It is hardly necessary to say that he did ample justice
to the subject. On Sunday, 28th, Mr. Monck lectured at the
same place ; he also generously gave his services, in order to
help to give the new movement a good start in the locality.
Miss Lottie Fowler in Liverpool.—Not a few Spiri¬
tualists will be glad to hear that Miss Lottie Fowler has
returned to England, and is now in Liverpool. Mr. Chapman
writes that—“ Last Friday night she gave a public seance in
the Islington Rooms, Liverpool, for the benefit of the ‘ Psy¬
chological Society,’ seventy-six persons being present. Mr.
John Lamont introduced Miss Fowler to the audience, and
said the spirit that controlled her was usually a little German
girl, whose eccentricities might appear peculiar to some ; but
whatever was said or done, Miss Fowler was unconscious of
it. Miss Fowler passed into the trance-state, and rising to
her feet, fell into the arms of a Mr. Walmsley, and called
out ‘ George she then personated the dying actions of his
father. She walked to Miss Shepherd, and holding her by
her hand, told her of what her father died, how he spat blood,
and did not eat any food for a length of time. Miss Shepherd
said that it was so. She then called out the name of Smith,
or some one who had a son who died in the army or
navy, and who, through the mediqm, said he wanted
his mother. A lady called out that she had lost a son in
the army. The medium took this lady from her seat, brought
her into the midst of the people, and told her a variety of
things which the lady said were correct; she then said,! Is
some one here who has lost a mother or a friendjwho died of
a tumour.’ A gentleman answered to that, and she gave him
some tests. She then walked up to two men who were sitting
together, and told one of them that his wife was behind him,
whereupon the man suddenly looked back and asked, ‘ Where?’
The medium said, ‘ You cannot see her ; she is in the spirit
world.’ He said his wife was dead—how then could she be
there ? The man seemed not to understand the thing at all
at first, which created some laughter. However, she gave
both these; gentlemen some good tests. When she leaves
Liverpool, she intends to visit Preston, Manchester, Bradford,
Leeds, Darlington, Bishop Auckland, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
Glasgow and Edinburgh, before she goes to France, Germany,
and Egypt,”
348
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
Oct. 1, 1873,
arowsponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME—A CHILDREN’S SEANCE—REMARK¬
ABLE MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH THE REV. F. W.
monck’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I have had such a series of remarkable and varied
forms of spirit intercourse recently in my own house, that I
ask your permission to allow me, as briefly as it is possible, to
record them for the benefit of Spiritualists who, like myself,
are calmly investigating these wonderful phenomena.
On Sunday evening, July 27th, we sat in our dining-room
for a children’s seance, before our three boys returned to
school for another five months’ absence from home. It was at
their special request, as while at school their mediumship has
been suspended. Mr. and Mrs. Everitt and their children,
also Mr. and Mrs. Rogers, were added to our number. Before
we had all settled to our places round the dining table,
between seven and eight feet in length, it began to move
about a little, and “ our little group” of children in the spirit
world announced their glad presence among us by innumer¬
able raps upon the table and all over the walls of the room. As
soon as we could moderate their joy and establish intelligent
conversation, we were directed to read from Ephesians vr.
1—4; Ecclesiastes xii. 1—4 ; and Psalm xxiii.; and I was
asked to pray, which I did after putting out the lights. Scents
and cool breezes came in profusion, after which Mrs. Everitt
and I were touched simultaneously in the side, and then
a roll of cardboard, forming a rough tube, was caught up and
rapped all over the ceiling. While I was in the act of
speaking, the tube was brought suddenly down, the small end
passing through my lips, and placed in my hands. My hands
were now sucked up (I use this term for want of a better to
express constraint without any feeling of manual force) with
the tube still in them, and the small end was thrust into my
mouth. In reply to inquiries, through the raps on the table,
I was told to breathe and speak through it, which I did for
about a quarter of an hour; the whole time it was being
tapped upon and stroked all about by a second tube which the
spirits had taken, and also by little warm fingers, which con¬
tinually touched my own, but melted as I tried to hold them.
Then came a very cool, almost cold breeze ; the tube became
heavy, and felt as if the little ones were playing upon it: it
was like a thing of life. My hands were now moved away
about a foot from my face, my elbows still resting on the
table, when I felt the vibration of the tube as we all heard a
soft sweet little voice call “ Papa—Mama ? "Yes, my dar¬
ling. Who are you ? ” “ Louisa I ”—the only one of our
little group who never lived on earth, for she was still-born,
although named. In soft tones of pleasure evidently, after
replying to a few questions, the voice called, “Edward,
Ernest, Frank, Nellie 1 ” adding, “ We are all here to-night 1 ”
and quick little responses were given to the children’s ques¬
tions. Children on both sides were equally pleased thus to
learn of the unbroken family circle—
The saints on earth, and all the dead
But one communion make.
Our little ones are neither dead nor slumbering to us. But
I have in these few words very inadequately recorded what
was far more pleasing and astonishing to me, foV this was the
first time the direct spirit voice had spoken through my
mediumship. Mrs. Everitt was present, joining in conversa¬
tion all the time (as also did I), but I felt that I was used—
i.e., my vitality, or aura, or psychic force, or whatever else
learned men may call it; and without robbing me, I never¬
theless felt “ virtue going out of me ” in a manner perfectly
indescribable. After a few directions to me as to how to con¬
serve the power, the tube ceased to vibrate, the life went out
of it, and it was a light carboard tube once more.
Mrs. Everitt now went into a trance. Another tube was
taken up, and John Watt’s voice came like that of an old
friend, for we have heard it so often. Addressing each of
the children, and referring to their individual idiosyncrasies,
they were soon engaged in a home-like conversation, while I
was jotting down notes in the dark. For those who object to
Spiritualism on the score of its uselessness, I will say that the
healthy impressions these spirit conversations have upon the
children is manifest. I will record a few fragments of the
cheerful chat with the children. “ Well, boys, you were very
"happy last half-year," weren't you? “Yes.” “ You'll be
happier next if you do what's right," “Frank, how much
money did you bring home?" (alluding to a promise made to
double it.) “ And how about the conjuring, Edward? ” “ The
hen coop you finished all right because you persevered; but at
one time we saw you were puzzled, and Knippy helped you. Per¬
severance is the thing, isn’t it, Ernest ? That and patience
enabled you to catch those fish! ” And now, having made
them all perfectly at home with him, John Watt elevated his
conversation a bit. “ You recollect what I said last time?”
“Yes.” “ Be honest, truthful, and loving, and you will be
happy. 1 now add always persevere {like you did with the
coop, Edward), and don't forget prayer." “ No,” they said,
astonished at his thinking they should do so. “ I don't mean
‘ say' your prayers, but talk to God as you do to your father.
Read your Bible, and let me advise you to commit one verse
to memory every day." “ Well, Frank, you'll have a little cry
on leaving home ” (which he repudiated I), “ but you'll soon
get over it, because you mean to do what's right. And then,
boys, Christmas will come, and you will come home again—
persevere. Good night, boys, may our Heavenly Father bless
you and preserve you, and all the dear ones at home ; and may
you all meet again in love and harmony. Now sing the Dox-
ology." This done, he threw down the tube, and was gone.
During the singing, on two or three occasions during the
evening, a spirit voice joined in singing a correct tenor, which
no one present but myself could have done. I heard it dis¬
tinct from my own voice while I was singing.
On narrating a similar seance to a minister some time ago,
he endeavoured, of course vainly, to explain all, and spoke of
the imagination of children adding, “ Now, if they would lift
this table right off the ground, and suspend it in the air, I
should believe that.” Without infringing upon your space,
I may add that recently while singing, at the commencement
of our seance, this heavy table was lifted completely off the
ground, and swayed in time to our song. Need I add that
this test is not now sufficient ? And this morning from the
pulpit the same preacher said, “ The only proof we have of
immortality is in the promises of God.” I rejoice in the
promises with him ; but at the same time thank God that,
in the present need of the age we live in, we have facts, and
“ those that were dead begin to speak.”
On Friday evening, August 15th, I joined a small party of
intelligent investigators at Mr. Everitt’s house. It was a
very hot close night; and on this occasion the scents and cool
breezes were profuse and refreshing. My hands and hair
were permeated with scent on coming home; and the cir¬
cumstance was then noticed by others. John Watt, in speak¬
ing for over an hour, commenced by referring to a statement
which a friend, in reporting what he had said at Liverpool,
erroneously made as to his earth-life. He was not educated
at the Newcastle Institution, but he studied with Stephenson
privately; and on Saturday afternoons they were accustomed
to obtain books from the Newcastle Library. Locke was his
chief friend. In the course of a long conversation, and in
reply to our questions, I noted the following fragments :—
“ We spirits help you continually on this earth-plane. Ours
is the world of causes, yours of effects. We see at once those
into whom we can infuse ideas and help them. - When you
come over to our side you will find out how your spirit has
been instructed during your hours of sleep.”
Mrs. Everitt and I now noticed several light cloudy forms
moving about, and asked him about them, to which he
answered,—“ The room is now full of spirits. It always is
when you sit, hence sit wisely, and take care in what spirit
you sit, because all kinds of spirits can get in unless you
guard against it.”
I felt my chair now struck several times, and asked my
neighbour quietly if he were touching it. “ No,” said John
Watt, “it is your father.” We asked, “ If our spirit friends
are so near to, and intimate with us, are they not susceptible
to pain when we suffer ? ” “ No, because they do not see
your exterior life, but only the interior spirit life.”
Again, in reply to us—‘ ‘ Those who die suddenly do not
awake to spirit life at once, there is to them a gradual unfold¬
ing of the spirit-world, they sleep sometimes for many days.” ,
The next seance was unsought entirely; and like most of
those not previously arranged, a very remarkable one. On
Thursday evening, August 21st, the Rev. F. Monck, late of
Bristol, was visiting us. Mr. and Mrs. Everitt were also at
our house to tea, immediately after which we all sat at the
open window, watching the twilight departing, and the
curtain of darkness shutting out a lovely evening scene. We
were on easy chairs and ottomans, pleasantly chatting, when
raps came upon the chairs and floor, and we were told to “ go
to the table.” On taking our seats, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt
Oct. 1, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
349
were told to “ go home, and tell them not to sit up.” “ This
looks very much like drifting into a secmce” we remarked.
Mr. Monck is a very wonderful medium, and has been so from
boyhood. He has resisted it in every way, for it has been
not only inconvenient, but it has alienated from him many of
his old friends. Some of the manifestations he has had
would be credited only by Spiritualists who have patiently
followed up these remarkable phenomena. While Mr. and
Mrs. Everitt had gone into their house, close by, the vibratory
power in the room and furniture increased, and we were
quite prepared for “something.” On their return we shut
the window, locked the door, and sat in the dim departing
light. We were laughing at Mrs. Everitt for having come
back without her door-key, but the spirits would not allow
her to go back,—they said they would bring it. After sitting
a little time, Mrs. Everitt was getting fidgetty, and said, “ I
wish 1 had that key! ” She had no sooner uttered the last
word, than it fell in front of her upon the table. Several
very extraordinary physical manifestations then took place.
While pleasantly talking, still in dim light, Mr. Monck was
quietly lifted up from his chair between myself and a friend,
raised some height above, and then put down upon the table.
No sooner was this done, than his chair was carefully lifted
over our heads, and placed over him. “ Frivolous ? ” “ Very! ”
We at once remarked we did not need nor care for such
manifestations, but for awhile they continued—certainly not
from unconscious cerebration, for our will was consciously
opposed to them. Mr. Monck was then^ placed back into his
chair, which I had previously replaced, and told by a voice,
which he only heard (for he is a clairaudient, as we proved
subsequently) to go to the door.' This he did, and the chair
soon after followed him. He was here entranced, and we
heard an amusing altercation going on between his guardian
spirit and two others who were trying to possess him as their
medium, and to whom we were indebted .for some previous
remarkable but very undesirable manifestations. We all
heard the voices perfectly distinct from each other, and at
last Mr. Monck, acting as his guardian’s medium, unlocked
and opened the door, letting in full light from the hall-lamp,
when we saw him politely bowing them out, and, although
invisible to us, we all distinctly heard their retreating foot¬
steps. Harmony was now established ; and for about two
hours we talked with the guardian spirit “ Sam” on various
topics. One related to a most important matter to Mr. Monck,
which it would be imprudent to make public, although it pro¬
bably will be made known to his advantage some day. Mr.
Monck was a stranger to all of us, but gave us communi¬
cations from deceased relatives, with their names (unknown
to him), and certainly from such as we should least think of
at the time; but as such particulars would be purely of per¬
sonal interest, I will not here add them. After some time
“Sam” said,—“ I’m going to take him up,” when Mr. Monck
was at once lifted over our heads, and floated round the room
close to the ceiling, which he sometimes touched, as also the
chains of the gaselier above the table. It was now dark,
excepting a faint light at the window, which enabled us to
see the bird-cage hanging in the centre of the window
recess. The bottom of the cage is five feet six inches from
the floor. The controlling spirit now said he would give his
medium a stretching; it would do him good. He led him
behind our chairs to the window just under the cage, his
head just touching it. We then saw him slowly rise, and
swell out to a great bulk until his shoulder supported the
bottom of the cage, and his head reached above to nearly the
top. By subsequent measurement we find he was elongated
at least nine inches.
After this my father spoke in his natural voice, which I at
once recognised. He referred to matters unknown to the
medium, and shook hands with me through him. A spirit
who gave the name of Dr. Elliotson subsequently spoke in a
grandiloquent but kindly voice, which, never having heard, I
could not say whether natural or not. He mesmerised three
of the company.
Mr. Monck’s departed wife next came, and left a mark on
his hand (a long and apparently deep scratch with a pin),
which she had promised to do if ever she should be able to
return to him after death. It was not sore or tender, and
soon healed up j but, need I add, to Mr. Monck a proof, and
the best one he could have had, that she had been present
during his entrancement.
I could add more, but your space forbids. I trust, how¬
ever, you will think this grouping together of various phases
of mediumship of sufficient interest to excuse me for so far
trespassing upon your space. I will leave the facts to speak
for' themselves, merely adding that no theory which will
account for one class of mediumship is of any value, unless
it includes the whole of these, and others I could add (espe¬
cially such as direct spirit writing), and the only satisfactory
one is the spirit theory. Morell Theobald.
Hendon, August 24th, 1873.
DR. RICHARDSON'S LECTURES ON SPIRITUALISJd.
Sir,—In reply to your interrogatory paragraph in your last,
I should like to say that nothing will afford me greater plea¬
sure than assisting the cause. For twelve months prior to my
leaving Australia, I had been prevented by ill health from
taking so active a part among the friends as I formerly had
done, and during the visit of friend Peebles I was absent from
Melbourne. I am now travelling for health’s sake, having
retired from practice. If in my wanderings from place to
place I can meet with any who will cooperate with me,
I shall willingly do what I can to arouse the dormant masses
to the knowledge of the glorious truths of the Reformation of
the nineteenth century. Meanwhile, do not imagine, I pray
you, that I am idle. I distribute daily by hand, or by post,
Spiritualists, Mediums, and tracts. I find that the popular
ignorance of the subject is even greater here than in
Australia. Vested interests hold so prominent a place, and
theological influence is so great, that few, indeed, venture to
reason on their beliefs. The crowds, ignorant alike of science
and of Biblical criticism, believe as they have been taught,
and dogma has been so long indoctrinated with education,
that “ as the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined.” The pri¬
mary efforts of all friends of mental freedom must be directed
to the total separation of all religion from national education.
The schools, sooner or later, must be battle ground. It is
monstrous to teach fables to children as real truth. I do not
see, either in your pages or those of the Medium, any list of
agents in the provinces. This, I think, is to be regretted, as
such might form nuclei for inquirers, investigators, and
friendless wanderers like myself.
W. Lindesay Richardson.
Leamington, September 18th, 1873.
GOWER-STREET SPIRITUALISTIC MEETINGS.
Sir,—The meetings at Gower-street held on the 17th and
24th of September were so great a success, that scores of
persons could not get in. As announced from the chair,
theological disputations would not be allowed. The objects
in view were simply two :—
1st. To prove by facts that man passes out of his body a
living intelligent substance.
2nd. That under certain conditions, many such can and do
visit, and as “ ministering spirits ” assist the families they are
connected with by ties of affection.
The series of four meetings embrace subjects that directly
bear on those questions. Thus—Phenomenal Phases of Spirit
Power; Spirit; Supernaturalism; and Ministering Spirits.
Possibly you have reports of the two first meetings. The
third will be on Wednesday, the 1st of October, subject—The
Supernatural, illustrated by oxyhydrogen light and pictures.
The lecture will be delivered by me and Dr. Gully, late of
Malvern, will be in the chair. On the 8th the Rev. F. Row¬
land Young will be the leading speaker. His subject will be
“ Ministering Spirits.”
On the 15th of October there will be a tea-party of Spi¬
ritualists alone, to talk over the past four meetings, and con¬
fer as to the future. I fully expect an influential, united
band of workers.
Doubtless, Spiritualists will rejoice to learn that the move¬
ment is supported by all those in London recognised as the
leaders of Spiritualism since its definite advent in 1855.
Spiritualists are no longer a lonely band, few in number,
scoffed at and derided. They are now a large body, of more
than average intellectual power. That power the newspapers
and magazines perceive, and are acting accordingly.
The report of the meeting on the 17th of September in
the newspapers must have been read by at least two and
a half millions of the adult population. The country news¬
papers have copied these reports, and so extended the know¬
ledge.
The expenses of the two meetings have been borne by one
individual. To carry out the full plan laid down for effec¬
tively doing the needed work during the next twelve months,
a fund of £300 has to be created. London Spiritualists alone
can raise it, if they will it.
The call for united action has been responded to.
Enmore Park, S.E. J. Enmore Jones.
350
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oot. 1, 1873.
THE LATE CONIEEENCE AT LIVERPOOL,
Sir,—As there appears to be some doubt as to the number
of delegates who attended the late National Conference, I
hope you will insert the following statements in the next
number of The Spiritualist.
Upon referring to the visitors’ book, I find there are ninety
signatures of persons who attended, and the delegates repre¬
sented the following places :—London, Edinburgh, Glasgow,
Carlisle, Manchester, Keighley, Darlington, Preston, Bacup,
Hendon, Bochdale, Hawden, Bishop-Auckland, Belper, Ut-
toxeter, Cheetham, and Blackburn ; and Mr. Farnham, of
New York, was present. There were two delegates from
London societies. In addition to the above, the Conference
Committee received a mass of correspondence from twenty-six
other towns, with reports of the progress of the movement in
their respective districts, and the above did not comprise all
the correspondence, for, in addition, we had communications on
the subject of the Conference from Newcastle-on-Tyne, South-
sea (Hants), Rotterdam, Maidstone, Churwell, Leeds, Streatham,
Huddersfield, Halifax, Northampton, Stoke, Leyburn (York¬
shire), Eastbourne, Brixton, Walsall, Batley, Morley, West
Hartlepool, End Moor, Hamilton, Framlingham (Suffolk), and
Stone (Staffordshire). The following is a list of the subscrip¬
tions towards the balance of expenses:—A Wellwisher,
5s.; Mr. E. Foster, £1 Is.; A Friend, 5s.; Mr. Kilburn, jun.,
£1; Mr. J. Chapman, £1; Mr. T. Gardiner, 10s.; Mr. T.
Grant, £1 Is.; Mr. J. Bowman, £1 Is.; Mr. F. R. Young, 5s.
Mr. J. T. Hoskin, £1; Mr. D. Richmond, 10s.; Mr. G. B.
Clark, 10s. ; Mr. S. Hocking, 10s.; Mr: T. Everitt, 10s.; Mr.
W. Gill, 5s.; Mr. J. Lament, £4 12s.; Mr. Fraser, £3.
John Chapman, Son. Sec.
DISTURB AN CHS, IN A CHAPEL VAULT IN THE ISLAND OE
BARBADOES.
Sir,—-X observe in your number for September an account
of “ Disturbances in a vault in the island of Barbadoes,” ex¬
tracted from the Memoirs of the late Lord Combermere,
published by his widow in 1866. That “ extract ” is a copy
of an account of the occurrence which I published in 1860,
under the title “ Death-Deeds.” The facts were related to
me, as I state in my preface, by a medical gentleman, a native
of Barbadoes, then residing in England, and the details were
corroborated directly to myself by the late Lord Combermere.
When published, I sent a copy to his lordship, and the vis¬
countess, it would appear, has reproduced my narrative.
Whether between inverted commas, 1 know not, never having
seen the memoirs. My pamphlet contains woodcuts of the
tomb, showing its appearance before and after the disturb¬
ances, from drawings made at the time.
Southport, Sept. 27th, 1873. S. L. Oussons.
The public meetings at present going on in London,
which are neither directly nor indirectly connected with any
trade interest, are Mr. Enmore Jones’s meetings in Gower-
street, also the meetings held in connection with the Dalston
Society, and with the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists in
Clerkenwell.
Dr. Sexton has very generously said that in every case
in which regular public meetings in connection with Spiritual¬
ism are started for the first time in any part of London, he
will aid by giving one lecture without charge. He has already
given more lectures in London without charge than can be
considered just to himself.
Some interesting correspondence has passed between
Father Ignatius, “ O. S. B,” and Mr. Henry Meeson, in rela¬
tion to the pamphlet of the latter on.Spiritualism, the point of
contention being the Divinity of Christ. Printed copies of
the correspondence may be had of Mr. John Hey wood, Deans-
gate, Manchester, price one. penny each. A fourth edition of
Mr. Meeson’s pamphlet has just been issued, and contains
some lively information about evil spirits inspiring Quakers at
their meeting-house in Manchester.
The Athenaeum, of September 20th, contains an abusive
article on Spiritualism, not quite so virulently and ignorantly
written as its predecessor a year or two ago, Fritz’s book
having put some fragments of knowledge of the subject he
deals with into the head of the editor. The article is so
superficial as to be unworthy of criticism, but it -will be useful
to quote hereafter, when the Athenaeum will be obliged to ex¬
press opposite opinions, in order to keep pace with public
knowledge about Spiritualism. The Examiner of September
13th published a brief notice of Fritz’s book.
Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, will leave London
next week for Holland, where he will remain for a few weeks.
Mr. Gerald Massey sailed from Liverpool for New
York a week ago.
M. Alexandre Aksakoe will reach England shortly,
and we hope something will be done to give him a public re¬
ception.
Trade Interests :—The Medium newspaper wishes to
know what we mean by “ trade interests ? ” For the last two
or three years it has been possible to tell whether the pro¬
ceedings of any particular spiritual meeting will be written up
or the reverse in the Medium newspaper, by observing what
literary goods were on sale at the doors of the said meeting.
Mr. Enmore Jones has recently started public meetings in
connection with Spiritualism, to which hundreds of persons
could not gain entrance, the attendance being so large, yet
the Medium newspaper gave no reports of the proceedings, the
necessary goods not being on sale at the doors. This is one
example of the workings of a trade interest. Another example
is that in which the Liverpool Psychological Society, by pains¬
taking hard work, convened an excellent National Conference,
which the Medium newspaper painted as a dead failure, with
only about twenty persons present. The truth is that ninety
persons signed their names in the visitors’ book, forty-six
towns were represented either by delegates or by letters, all
the chief societies of Spiritualists in the kingdom had a
deputation present, and the editors of three spiritual period-
cals were in attendance. A third example of a “ trade
interest” is the calling a publishing business, belonging
to a private individual, “ The Spiritual Institution,”
and printing things about it conveying the idea to
inquirers and people in the provinces that it is a
great public institution recognised by the London Spiritual¬
ists, whereas no London Spiritualist but the owner of the
business has anything to do with it, and to give such a mis¬
leading name to a shop without authority is an unjustifiable
liberty. If the name of the proprietor were prefixed to the
title, we should have no right to find fault. A fourth example
of working in a “ trade interest ” is in the deliberate state¬
ment published at the end of the Dialectical Report that the
alleged institution is supported by a general system of national
organisation, the honest truth being that it is supported by no
organisation whatever, but is entirely the trade venture of a
private individual. A fifth example of the working of a trade
interest is the abuse which has been given in The Medium to
one after another of the best workers in the movement, espe¬
cially those who once had most to do with inaugurating public
meetings in London, so that for two or three years the more
educated and intelligent of our public men have kept aloof
from the movement, and our public meetings have been
lowered both in number and quality. Other examples might
be cited—for instance, the occasional “ writing up” of second
and third-rate mediums and lecturers, if they work in harmony
with the trade interest. The Medium calls us “acrid” for
pointing out those truths, but the facts have been the subject
of general comment, and not a little strong feeling, in all
circles of London Spiritualists for a year or two, and we have
been very patient in keeping silence for so long a time. The
chief object now in temporarily calling attention to the matter is
to make the circumstances known in the more remote country
districts—for here and there the dwellers in the provinces
have very erroneous ideas as to the position of Spiritualism in .
London; they wonder how it is that our lecturers are better
remunerated in the country than in town, and that London
Spiritualists have not subscribed to establish regular public
meetings on a substantial basis. It cannot be regarded as
other tb,an the public duty of a newspaper to call attention to
any connection between spiritual public meetings and trade
interests. There is no acidity in these remarks—nothing but
the simple truth, uttered in the public interests after long and
patient forbearance. Whatever may be good in connection
with any work we are willing to admit, and think that The
Medium has done very much to spread a knowledge of Spirit- *
ualism among the less wealthy section of English society. It
has done this because of its cheapness, that cheapness being
due to incessant and heavy subscriptions, enabling it to under¬
sell its neighbours, and to prevent Spiritual periodical litera¬
ture, as a whole, from being self-supporting. Perhaps the
most painful examples of the influence of trade interests are
in the attempts of The Medium to sow dissension and dis¬
union among Spiritualists throughout the whole country, by
strenuously opposing national organisation and united friendly
action. If these attempts were to be successful, their effects
upon the progress of Spiritualism would be most damaging.
Oct. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
351
LECTURE BY MRS. TAPPAIST. '
Last Sunday evening Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered an
inspirational lecture at St. George’s Hall, Regent-street, under
the presidency of Mr. T. Slater. The hall was crowded on this
as on the previous occasion, in consequence of the certificate
given to English Spiritualists by Mr. Robert Dale Owen of
Mrs. Tappan’s abilities, all Mr. Owen’s statements being reli¬
able and free from exaggeration. Consequently the listeners
were not disappointed in the results, the address being an ad¬
mirable one. A committee of five persons—three non-spiri¬
tualists, and two Spiritualists—was elected by the audience to
unanimously select the subject of the lecture which was—
“ What great teacher has produced the most potent effect upon
society, and why ? ”
The substance of Mrs. Tappan’s lecture was that it was un¬
necessary to consider the deeds of the teachers of prehistoric
times, and that Confucius, Buddha, Mahomet, Plato, Socrates,
and Aristotle were inspired men, whose teachings embodied
the concentrated religious thought of ages immediately pre¬
ceding their advent. Jesus occupied higher ground, because
He carried out His teachings in His life and acts. All these
great teachers had exerted powerful influence over human
society, but the influence of Jesus Christ operated upon the
section of human society which has at present the largest pro¬
portion of civilisation, culture, and science; therefore, He
might justly be considered to have exerted the greatest influ¬
ence upon modern society of any great teacher. His Sermon
on the Mount had never been surpassed, and although Con¬
fucius and others had uttered the Golden Rule before Him,
they did not so completely embody that rule in their daily
lives. Christianity, with its forms’, creeds, and sects, was one
thing, but the spirit of the teachings of Christ was another
and a completely distinct thing.
Mr. Cooper, a barrister, one of the non-Spiritualists on the
Committee, said that the discourse was of a very high order,
and he wished that others of a similarly high character could
be heard in the majority of our churches and chapels.
From remarks made by other speakers this seemed to be the
unanimous opinion of all the listeners.
As St. George’s Hall has been taken for other purposes on
Sunday evenings during the rest of the season, Mrs. Tappan
will lecture next Sunday evening at the Royal Music Hall,
242, Holborn, W.C.
In our next issue we hope to give some information about
Spiritualism in Yorkshire.
It is to be hoped that Dr. Hugh McLeod will lecture
more frequently than heretofore in London. Cannot some of
our local societies make' arrangements with him ?
Spieitualism in Ralston.—The third anniversary of
the Dalston Association, held at its rooms, 74, Naravino-road,
Dalstbn, London, on the 15thSeptember last was largely an d
influentially attended. Amo ngst those present were Mr. J.C.
Luxmoore, Mr. Hy. M. Dunphy, Misses Florence E. and Kate
Cook, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. Thomas Shorter and Miss
Shorter, Mr. James J. Morse, Mr. and Mrs. Bassett, Mrs. A.
Corner and daughter, Mr.A. Maltby, and the Misses JVtaltby,
Mrs. Olive, &o., &c. The President of the Association, Mr.
Alfred E. Lovell, delivered his address reviewing the work of
the association since its establishment in 1870. During the
evening congratulatory addresses were delivered by Messrs. J.
C. Luxmoore, Henry M. Dunphy, and Jas. J. Morse. Yocal
and instrumental music were ably sustained by the Misses
Florence E. and Kate Cook, Misses Emily and Agnes Maltby,
Miss M. A. Sparey, Miss Miriam Blyton, Mrs. Lovell, Mrs.
Bassett, and others, while recitations were given by Messrs. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen, Arthur Whitby, and W. Standen. At nine
o’clock an interval of about fifteen minutes for refreshments
took place, after which Mr. Jas. J. Morse spoke under the con¬
trol of the “ Strolling Player.” The rooms were then darkened
and Mrs. Lovell played and sang under spirit influence. At
one time while singing, Mr. W. Standen, also under influence,
played an accompaniment on the pianoforte. The spirit
“ James Lombard ” manifested with the direct audible voice
through Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship, and a very pleasant con¬
versation was carried on for some time. Raps were very dis¬
tinctly noticed. There were upwards of sixty members and
friends present, which caused the rooms to be inconveniently
crowded ; and considering that those who possessed medium-
istic qualities were closely seated in contact with comparative
strangers it was very satisfactory to observe the success with
which the spirits managed to represent their interest in the
proceedings.—Thomas Blyton, Secretary.
The Ret. J. Murray Spear.—Mr. ’William Tebb, of
7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-park, N.W., writes,—
11 have just heard from our friend, Mr. John M. Spear, of
114, Callowhill-street, Philadelphia, acknowledging the receipt
of £26 2s. (in U.S. currency, $144,87) with grateful thanks to
all the contributors. Another subscription of £10 from B. J.
has been promised, and if any further sums are sent me, they
will be forwarded at the same time.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So many private letters are sent us by entire strangers that we are
not able to reply promptly to them by post, and can only answer
them in this portion of the journal.
F. H., Calcutta.—Please write by next mail.
W. H. T., Melbourne.—Your letter and the journal received.
E. W. C., .Boston, U.S.—Please let us know your permanent
address.
Editors Banner of Light, Boston, U.S.—Your two letters shall be
attended to within the next three days.
C. R., Manchester.—Too late for this issue. What is your full
address ?
W. L. R., Leamington.—Please send us your full address; it has
been mislaid.
D. F., Brixton.—Your letter unavoidably kept over from want of
space in this number.
Eusebius.—We hope to have something to say about your inte¬
resting pamphlet soon.
E. D., Charing Cross.—Dr. Balfour Stewart’s article in Nature on
the experiments of Mr. Crookes, was published, if we remember
rightly, just before the British Association met in Edinburgh, in
August or September two years ago.
A.—Can you kindly take more care to send us MS. of a more
legible character, with no additions round the edges of the pages ?
It would save many persons much time and ^trouble, also reduce
the liability to error.
“Hope,” Brixton; “W. E. A. A.,” Manchester; and “X.”—We
have not yet been able to find room for your letters. It is always
more expeditious to send two short letters rather than one long
one.
R. P. Tredwen, Pimlico.—Your letter admirably details all Mas-
kelyne and Cook’s performances, but the main facts having been
exposed long ago, we do not think the minute details worth the
space, though by frequent attendance you have solved the whole
thing to its very roots.
J. B., Smethwick.—It is a picture which might have been produced
by subjecting the negative for a second or two to diffused light
under a transparency, either before or after exposure, but there
is no evidence on the face of it whether it is genuine or not. We
imagine that perhaps crystals merely divert the attention of the
sensitive from surrounding objects; Mrs. Hardinge said that if
she looked for a short time at a china door knob she began to see
spirits.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russ ell-square. Private Seances attended.
SIBYL, Seeress, Clairvoyante, and Test Mediujn, 53,
Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each person.
DR. HUGH MCLEOD acts in conjunction with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Pitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL B00K-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
352
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct, 1, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIKITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. E. Fox Bom-ne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
rivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion.of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers' into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface.. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
devekped physical mediums; it is hot yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has to j^ifiaence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only.speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No," and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the.right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,'
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; li he manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Head O^.-BEOWN STEEET AND MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEE
FIEE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
_ The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
W, RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFOED-STEEET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Buling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.—W. E. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to. execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
TO OWNEES OF HOUSE PEOPEETY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PAEK GEOVE, 'SHEPHEED’S LANE, BEIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Eoad, and near the Eailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PAEK. EOAD, EEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTEEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUETON EOAD, BEIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics " is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time at
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Paifenf.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., see. 18.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the 1 EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. .
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-EENTS, HOLBOEN, W.O., *■
Eespectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Eents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E.-W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
