[Registered as a Newspaper,
^dis{Kcis<.
CIj^ #Itef itlfosppjr jtijrttitelleir toxty Spirxfwnlxsm xtx (&xmi |lnlahr.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON ; xi, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 446, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgojnery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Ofnce. MEMPHIS,
U.S,: 225, Union-street, SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 198.—"(VOL. VHI.—No. 28.) LONDON : FNIDA-Yj JUNE 9j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontentjL
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
The Education of the Children of Spiritualists 265
Spiritualism in Germany:—The Publication of Psychic
Studies     ... 266
The Dream of Perceval’s Assassination  266
Spiritualism in Russia:—The Work of the St. Peters¬
burg Scientific Commission—Protest on the Part of
the Russian Public against the Report on Spiritualism
of the St. Petersburg Committee  266
Spiritualism in Algiers. By Meline Contanceau 267
The Psychological Society of Great Biitain:—Memory
Considered as a Proof of the Independent Existence
of the Soul—Abnormal States of the Recollection dur¬
ing Delirium—Pre-existence—Abnormal Powers of
Recollection—A Good Case of Clairvoyance—The
York Ghost    | 268
Baptism of the Two Medial Children of Mrs. Kate Fox-
Jencken ...     ... ...   270
Jules Favre Advocating the Reality of Psychological
Phenomena in a Court of Law 270
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Extraordinary Manifestations
while the Medium was Sewn in a Bag. By Lydia
Wiseman ... ... ... ... V      270
Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein  271
Spiritualism in Spain   272
The Origin and Growth of the Spiritist Society of Pa' is.
By P. G. Leymarie, Editor of the Revue Spirits 273
Spiritualism in South Africa:—Spirits Interfering with a
Court of Law ... ...   273
Wax Moulds of Spirit Hands under Test Conditions 274
Theology versus Science:—Copy of the Original Record of
Galileo’s Recantation 275
Correspondence:—Baron Holmfeld on the Reincarnation
Doctrine  276
Devil and Ghost Worship in Western India:—Demonology
Among the Hill Tribes—Sin-eating 276
Paragraphs:—The Linguistic Powers of Spirits, 269; Mr.
Maskelyne Writes a Book, 274; Mr. J. J. Morse in the
Provinces, 274; Liverpool Borough Sessions, 275; A
New Undertaking, 275; Library of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, 275; Opposition to the Leigh
Spiritualists   ... 275
Cjp j^nfixalxst fUtosppa;,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
v-7 ol-own for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. ‘‘ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.  
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
Of every month. Price, 3 franc. Published by the Sociiti
An any me, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
B1RKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pei iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
'mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Stmi-
.L detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6j
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight 
A GERMAN TUTOR, who has completed
his classical studies at the University, and speaks French
and English fluently, wishes to employ his evenings. Six
years’ successful teaching in England and abroad. Highest
references given. Terms moderate. Address, Herr Sch, 35,
All Saints-road, Westboume-park, W. 
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
I n alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
B arrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codiflcation of
the Law of Nations.) '
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred £. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Ihnoravy Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of thi s Association arc to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by variens means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which' Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on thejfi’sl Thursday evening in eacli month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by tlie Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. Ali;the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
'* To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E A
stamped addressed envelope should lie enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership;—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum, donation of £2 2s.
rpHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc-
tioos ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470pages, onioned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
1 PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man? The “one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘•THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will he supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought oui in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.O,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda for June, 1876.
Friday, 2nd.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance.* Mr. W. Eglin-
ton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 7th.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street at 6.30 p.m.
Music, conversation, and Represbments. Open
to Members and Friends. Admission Is.
Thursday, Bth.—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, at 38, Great Russell-
street, from 3 to 5 p.m. Admission, 2s. Cd.
Friday, 2th.—Mr. Blackburn's Free Seance. Mr. W. Egling-
ton, medium, at 7.30.
Monday \2th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Tuesday, 13th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m,
„ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 14th.—Experimental Research Committee, 6 p.m.
Thursday, 15lh.—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, at 38, Great Russell-
street from 3 to 5 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Friday, l&th.—Mr. Blackburn's Free Seance. Mr. W. Egling-
ton, medium, at 7.3'1,
Monday, 12th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Thursday, 22nd.—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, from 3 to 5 p.m. Admis-
tion, 2s. 6d.
Monday, 23th.—Mr. Blackburn's Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Thursday, 22th.—Mrs. Olive’s [Seance from 3 to 5 p.m. Admis¬
sion, 2s. 6d.
„ Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Mr. Bullock,
medium, at 7.30.
* Inquirers and members of the National Association and of
allied societies are admitted to these seances under conditions
which may be ascertained by application to the Secretary.
Members are requested to note that the Soiree on tbe 7th
inst. is the last of the season, the Council having resolved to
suspend these meetings during the next three months.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Spiritualism in east London.—The
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. B.
Cogman’s work in Spiritualism at the East End of London,
will be held on Sunday, June 25th, at five o’clock, at 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E. Tickets, Is. each.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday,/Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday,/Seance al
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered bis services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him bv 'ho
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,00m, and very littlo
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acki.ow-
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh Lancashire.
Dr. sexton at the cavendish
ROOMS.—On Sunday evening next, at the Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, Dr. Sexton will com¬
mence, by special request, a series of three discourses on the
“ Fallacies of Secularism.” The topics are arranged as follows:
Juno 4th, “Secularism, tbe Creed of Negations; ” 11th, "Secu¬
larism Destitute of a IBoral Code;" 18th, “Secularism In¬
capable of Supplying the Demands of tbe Intellect or the Wants
of the Heart." Service at seven o’clock.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very larc/e stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbnlld?.
TI
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION O'?
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,IP, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orvvell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islingtou-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, AY.
Smith, Martin It., Heatlilands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tempi email, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra?--.
road, Einchley-road, N.W.
AVason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
. Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, AY. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.AY.
Ashton, IS. P , Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Coffin, AY. H., Coriiwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A.,22, St. AniTs-oquare, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Dliinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road. Holland-road, Kensington, AY.
Coffin, AY. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. It, Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, It., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Aranbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, s.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Port man-square, AY.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7, Oberstein-road, New AVandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-liill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AY.
Fitton, It, 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz- Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, Noral
Brixton, S.AV.-
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.-,
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Auerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington..
Hook, C. T,, Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crcseent, AYestbourne-square, AY.
Hudson, Geo.; Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds. .
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
- park,. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club; S.AY.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AY.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. Jolm’s-wood, N.AY.
Mansell, F. AY., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place,AV.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AY. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AYarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Itichmond-terraee, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 113, Albany-street, Itegent’s-park, N.W.
1’earce, Itichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Fincliley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E
Short, Rev. AY. F.,St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Radcliffe-gardens, South Ken- ;
sington, S.AV.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George AY., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.G.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, CI averton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, AY.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AY., and 3, Altenbitrg-terface, Clapham Junction, S.W.
AViseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, AY.
AVithall, Miss H., 1, I he Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AY.
AVithall, H.,1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
AA’ood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AY.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Bonoi'ary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 69, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden
Mined Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von A’ay, Gonobitz, bei Potsehach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AYittig, Esq.; Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaiiof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mine, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles. Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Sirs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
' U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,' Melbourne.
SI. C Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
‘ Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany. •
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. AVittig, Esq., NurnbergCr Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. -
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U:S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 9, 1876.
AY. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town; South Africa.
J. Miu’ray, Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
:H. U.S.A.,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Ml de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
j Brussels.
I Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., NewTork, U.S.A.
I Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
. J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris,
j Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
J AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nahrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
j Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
J Mrs. Hailock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AY.
] Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples,
j Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
1 Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhier-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
! The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
I L’Union Spirite etMagnetique.. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
j Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. *
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, St,, Mary-
street, Cardiff.
j Socicdad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent— tl Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; • to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con-
: duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Groat Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
-3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND OO.,
Furnishing! Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the liierature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at Gl, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical seancee, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
T T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomauia, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
TVTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEAiYCPS, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To he seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, .10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, inclination of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distanee can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
A/FISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
-LT-I. American Somnambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horn s, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on ifonday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Gd. Physical
seances for spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visilors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbnry-square, London, W.C,
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor-
maiion for tbose who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own hemes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for Gd.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee; 2s. Gd.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
Seances at kentish-town.—Mr. w.
Wallace, formerly known as the Missionary Medium,
has made arrangements for a. Seance every Wednesday .evening,
at which Mr. Bullock, jun., will assist as medium. 7.30 for 8
precisely; 329, Kentish-town-road, N.W. (a few doors from
the Midland Railway Station). Omnibuses pass the door.
Admission, 2s. Gd.
SUSIE FLETCHER, the great American
Trance Medium and Magnetic Healer, has taken rooms
at No. 2, Vernon-plaee, Bloomsbnry-square, London, W.O.,
where, during the month of June she may be consulted.
Terms, one guinea. Treatment to the poor on Saturday morn¬
ings free. Will answer calls to lecture.
Just Published. Price 2s.
|MALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for . a model
cob-ny—Congenial English society; lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils; By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Maeshai t, & Co.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.G.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,'16, Stafford-street, Maryie-
bone-road, W.
% xJ mxb uf ^jtiijit«nK$m,
VotujviE Eiqht. Kumber Twenty-three.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 9th, 1876.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
A subject which will demand practical attention in the
future, and which in the past has occasionally become a
matter of public consideration, is that of the education of
the children of Spiritualists. One advantage of the con¬
sideration of plans before the time arrives for putting
them in force, is that as nobody then is deeply committed
to any particular pet scheme, plans of all kinds can
receive more impartial and leisurely examination, than if
deferred until immediately before the time of action.
The primary reason why special schools are necessary for
the children of Spiritualists is, that the latter may avoid
having forced into their young minds certain religious—or
rather irreligious—ideas, which Spiritualism proves to be
false, and which are a source of terror and anxiety to the
young, so long as they are supposed to be possibly true.
The horrible doctrine of eternal punishment is one of these,
not only because it is so repulsive and heathenish in itself,
but because it conveys ideas of the nature of the Deity
utterly at variance with the characteristics which should
belong to a just and a loving God. Theological ideas of this
nature are not only hurtful in themselves, but the inculca¬
tion of them involves a waste of time and mental energy
which might better have been directed to more important
branches of knowledge. Spiritualism, it is true, does not
warrant much religious teaching of a positive character; it
demonstrates that the state of life after death is one of
eternal progression; that, as a man sows, so shall he reap,
and that he cannot escape the consequences of his acts until
he has paid the uttermost farthing. With the exception of
a few simple though important first principles such as
these, the revelations vouchsafed ethrough Spiritualism have
been too meagre and too contradictory to meet with undi¬
vided acceptance; in truth, at the present time, the hard
work of digging the foundations of the new philosophy is
being prosecuted, consequently physical manifestations are
receiving the greatest share of attention. As the laws which
govern them are gradually unravelled, the self-same laws
are found to apply to some extent to the higher phenomena
of trance and clairvoyance, and the said laws could not have
been discovered by the study in the first instance of these
latter more intangible effects. Gradually, however,^students
are discovering how to separate those phenomena which are
purely spiritual from those which are due merely to physio¬
logical and mesmerical causes; thus, after a time, a platform
will have been built, upon which the difficulties incidental to
the study of the higher forms of mediumship can be more
surely and safely attacked.
Apart from the necessity which exists for protecting chil¬
dren from narrow and cramping theological influences,
special schools are necessary for the impartation of that
kind of education which is of most use in everyday life.
At the present time too much attention is generally given
to the study of the languages of dead and buried Pagans, so
that, according to Mr. Farrar, one of the masters of Harrow
School, young people are turned out into the world, “ armed
like gladiators of old to do battle with all the forces of modern
artillery.” The culture and the use of a classical education
should not be undervalued, but from a practical point of
view it is of infinitely less use to the possessor than a know¬
ledge of the various branches of natural philosophy. Hence
in all directions a cry has arisen for more scientific education
in schools and universities. To this cry there has as yet
been but a feeble response, it being difficult for old-estab¬
lished educational institutions to escape the antiquated
grooves in which they have been running so long. Oxford
University has begun of late to give more attention than
before to science, and so far as it has gone has done its
work well, such men as Dr. Odling and Professor Clifton
j having been placed at the head of well-supplied scientific
; departments. What is further required is that any student
| who elects to give a maximum of attention to science and a
c | minimum of attention to classics, shall be in as good a posi-
I tion as another student who elects to do the reverse. There
i | are heads of schools and colleges who wish to give precedence
! to scientific rather than to classical education, a desire which
i is also shared by the parents of some of their pupils; yet, in
) I spite of both being thus agreed upon this point, their in-
! clinations are not carried out, for the simple reason that
/1 many of the youths are expected in the future to occupy
) | Government appointments, and the Legislature demands in
< i many cases that a rigid examination in classics must pre-
ij viously be passed, whereas it is not nearly so particular
| about philosophical attainments. All these difficulties have,
! or ought to have been considered by the Royal Commission
i\ on Scientific Education. Thus old-established schools and
! colleges are in a transition state in relation to science, and
11 one advantage of starting new schools for the children of
■ ! Spiritualists will be that the knot may be cut at once, and
II good philosophical instruction be made a chief part of the
11 programme. Not only will the knowledge be of more use
! to the student in after life, but it will be more easily ac-
I quired, for many a youth who benumbs his brains by grind-
| ing at Latin and Greek, for which he may have no natural
i aptitude, feels pleasure in observing experiments, and in
/1 learning the principles deducible therefrom.
I Physiological subjects should also occupy a prominent
i place in Spiritualistic schools and lectures. At present
| children are turned into the world knowing nothing about
11 the powers which affect the health of their bodies, so that
j however much they may desire to have “a pure mind in a
:| pure body,” they have not the information necessary to give
11 proper attention to the latter point. There is scarcely a
l l house in the whole of London in the construction of which
I i ignorance of the laws of nature, on the part of the builder
|| and of the dwellers therein, is not demonstrated. For in-
vj stance, the grates are so constructed as to send three-
II quarters of the heat produced up the chimney instead of
I applying it to the warming of the room; or, in other words,
I people pay three times more than it is necessary to do for
H heat, whilst with properly-constructed grates, the same
)j amount of heat could be obtained from about one-third
\ | the quantity of coal. Further, with improved grates, the
11 air of London, instead of being thick with smoke, tending
> | to choke nose, mouth and lungs, would be infinitely purer
11 than at present, and trees and flowers would grow in back
| gardens which now produce nothing but broken china and
11 empty blacking bottles.
|! A different standard of moral teaching to that which at
j j present is general in this country would be of advantage to
j | children. The English people, both inside and outside the
II churches are, practically speaking, materialists, and perhaps
j | in the present stage of development are none the worse on
j j | that account. Those who, like Mr. Alabaster, have studied
1 j j Eastern races, have come to the conclusion that the more
m materialistic of them are finer and nobler people, and of
| j j more use to the world than fanatical idealists. Let us hope
ijlj that the charge sometimes brought by the public against
1111 Spiritualists of being materialists, applies to those traits
|) | which form the superiority mentioned by Mr. Alabaster. Still,
m it is essential that a solid and practical people should have their
j j I energies directed by good and clearly understood principles.
III The prevalent, though not outspoken idea of all classes in
III England is, that happiness is gained by the accumu-
j I lation of material wealth. Let those who think so, quietly
:m sit down and examine to what extent those of their
| j elderly friends who have succeeded in achieving such results,
are happy. rIhere is no more sorrowful spectacle than thfit
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 9, 1876.
266
presented by vulgar wealth; the possessor is unhappy at
being thrust into positions which he cannot fill with grace,
at being surrounded by sham friends, and (if he think deeply
enough), at having stored up for his children the means of
living a life of idleness, in which they escape that spiritual
and mental culture which brings out the nobler faculties of
human nature, or, in other words, developes that spiritual
wealth which can be carried to the other side of the grave,
and is not of necessity left on this. The rush after the
baubles of rank and title is none the less a mistake, so far
as happiness is concerned, for the same reasons as those
which have been stated in regard to wealth. Almost every
reader of these lines can point to examples of the truth of
what has herein been stated. Neither is unalloyed happi¬
ness to be found at the other end of the social scale, so long
as the objects of life are purely materialistic. Among what
are known as working people, a proportion will be found
deficient in that truthfulness, that nice sense of honour,
and that reliance upon each other which are prevalent in
higher sections of society. A proportion of them, not^all,
are suspicious of each other, envious of those who are better
rff than themselves, deprecators of u the right of property in
thought,” and actuated by a lower code of honour. In fact,
happiness is more evenly distributed in society than is
generally supposed, every' grade having its own virtues and
its own vices ; and after examining these influences working
and weaving beneath the surface of modern society, we must
at last acknowledge the probable truth of the golden
motto received by Emanuel Swedenborg from the spirit
world, that “ the angels in heaven are happy in proportion to
their usefulness.” In other words, a man is happy who
does his duty in this life, not for the sake of material
reward or gain, but because it is his duty; because he has a
desire to leave the world happier and better than he found
it—to give to it in his own labour more than he takes from
it in the labour of others. After a career like this, he may
very safely go to the spheres above, knowing that he has
done the best he can, and that if he suffers for such a life, it
is not from any fault of his own. There is too much worship
at the present time of the demons of respectability and
material wealth, neither of which bring happiness, but
frequently the reverse. If children were taught that such is
the case, and that they should lead useful lives—lives of such
value that the world cannot well do without their presence—•
they will feel themselves in a safe position here and here¬
after, and have a larger share of happiness than those who
have been brought up on more popular yet more erroneous
principles.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
i THE PUBLICATION OP “ PSYCHIC STUDIES.”
Attention has sometimes been called in this journal to
the fact that Spiritualism in Germany, as distinct from the
Reincarnation School of Spiritualism in Austria and Hun¬
gary, owes its origin and support during a period of ten
years to the labours of two individuals, the Honourable
Alexander Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, and his faithful
secretary, M. Gregor Constantin Wittig. By their joint con¬
tributions in money, work, and time, thirteen works by the
best writers on Spiritualism, English and American, have
been published in the German language, and a most excel¬
lent monthly magazine, Psychische Studien, has been estab¬
lished, which counts among its contributors several high-
class scientific writers. This journal is now in the third year
of its existence, and should, by this time, have met with
such support from those it is intended to benefit as to be no
longer a burden to its founder. M. Aksakof has, indeed,
announced that no more books will be published of the
Bibliothek series, and that a fund must be raised among
German Spiritualists for the continuance of the journal in
their country. An appeal has accordingly appeared in the
two last numbers of Psychische Studien, for the establish¬
ment of a fund to meet the further expenses of the journal
from the year 1877 forward. To effect the desired object
about £200 is required.
In his preface to the Debatable Land, M. Aksakof says :
It must to a great extent depend upon the reception given to
this work, whether the Spiritualist Library for Germany,
Ii hitherto supported by me alone, becomes henceforth a true
German Spiritualist Library, or whether its ten years’ exist-
| ence will end like a purely exotic plant which has produced no
| fruit and achieved no independent growth.” Should this be
| the result it will not be creditable to the Spiritualists of Ger-
| many, who ought not to be dependent upon a Russian gentle-
| man for their best literature. Their action in this matter
I will be observed with much interest by Spiritualists in other
| countries.
THE DREAM OF PERCEVAL’S ASSASSINATION.
Few dream-stories are so generally known and so well
| accredited as the vision of Perceval’s assassination dreamed
I by Mr. John Williams, of Scorrier House, near Truro, in
| May 1812. It has been told by Charles Dickens, by Sir
| John Rennie, by Dr. Lee in his Glimpses of the Supernatural,
| but in all these cases the dream is said to have taken place
| on the night of the murder; other inaccuracies also make it
I desirable to place on record the following memorandum by
| Mr. Charles Fox, of Trebah, near Falmouth, son of Mr. R.
| W. Fox, the partner of Mr. Williams, who was with him at
| the time of the dream. Mr. Charles Fox was himself a
| young man of one or two-and-twenty at the time:—
“My late father, R. W. Fox, of Falmouth, was early in May,
I 1812, in the eastern part of Cornwall, with his friend, John
| Williams, of Scorrier House, near Truro, and his brother Wm.
| Williams, of Penrhyn. Whilst visiting one morning some
| of their mines in the parish of Calstock on the banks of the
| Tamar, John Williams said in the carriage, 41 had a singular
| dream last night. I dreamt that I was in the lobby of the
| House of Commons, when I saw a tall man shoot a short
| man in the left side. I asked who it was, and was told that
I it was the Chancellor! ’ John Williams dwelt on this dream
j to my father’s slight annoyance, as it interrupted their con-
| versation. My father and he had sent his son Michael
| Williams (afterwards M.P. for the county) to see Perceval
| respecting the duty on foreign copper. At the time of the
| minister’s death Michael was in one of the committee rooms,
I of which the door was suddenly locked. When it was again
! opened, hearing what had occurred, he quitted London that
! evening by the mail, which then reached Truro on the second
| morning. His father, seeing him pass the window at
i Scorrier at breakfast-time, was assured of the cause of his
I return; no letter could have reached him so soon. Not long
| after the event, John Williams being in London sought for
| portraits of Perceval and his assassin. He remarked
| at one shop that the buttons on Bellingham’s coat were not
| right, as he wore ‘ basket ’ buttons, which in another
I portrait he found. Bellingham confessed that he had resolved
| on the assassination about a fortnight before the deed. I
| have now no certainty as to the day on which John Williams
j related his dream, but it is indubitable that he did so some
| days before the Chancellor’s death. John Williams was a
I .day’s journey from home, and he usually spent a week or
i more at Calstock. As far as my memory serves certainly
I more than a week intervened between the dream and its ful-
| filment. I insist on this point, because Dickens and many
| others wrote of its occurring on the night of the murder. I
! informed Dickens of the error. John Williams was a very
practical and unimaginative man. His other sons, including
the youngest, the late Sir W. Williams, Bart., were all
acquainted with the facts of the case. The relation of the
dream did not so much impress my father as to induce him
to commit it to writing at the time, but my brother, R. W.
Fox, F.R.S., now in his eighty-eighth year, and others of
his family, have often heard him speak of it in unvarying
terms to many persons. I believe that he was with John
Williams when purchasing the two portraits in London.”
Trebah, near Falmouth, May 28th, 1876.
It will be observed that the singularity of there being no
connection between the dreamer and the person to whom the
dream related, is somewhat removed by the fact that Michael
Williams was then on a mission from his father to Perceval,
while the observation of the basket buttons on Bellingham’s
coat shows how wonderfully distinct the dream had been.
Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld, of Holstein, is now in London, and
was at the soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists last
Wednesday.
June 9, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
SPIRITUALISM IN RUSSIA.
THE WORK OF THE ST. PETERSBURG SCIENTIFIC COMMISSION.
A letter just received by us from the Hon. Alexandre
Aksakof, dated St. Petersburg, May 27, states that there is
an error in Mme. Blavatsky’s statement that a bell was rung
in a closed box before the Scientific Committee of the St.
Petersburg University, through the mediumship of the
Petty Brothers. This was done while M. Aksakof was
alone with the two boys, and not in the presence of the
committee.
M. Aksakof further states that society in St. Petersburg
has not been made the dupe of Messrs. Mendeleef and Co.,
for it is a remarkable fact that the Russian press has not
said a word in favour of the hasty report issued by the
University Committee, but on the contrary, the most in¬
fluential journals have subjected it to the most severe
criticism, and the general opinion in Russia is that the
Scientific Committee has made a fiasco.
A few years ago a hasty report like that of the Scientific
Committee of St. Petersburg would have been welcomed
with joy, and without inquiry, by the English press, but
Spiritualism has now such a firm hold in Great Britain that
a scientific report that the phenomena are not real is looked
upon as an absurdity. Consequently, although several
English journals noted the brief report of the committee,
not one, so far as we know, were bold enough to say a word
in its favour, and it is pleasant to see that the Russian press
is not so badly informed upon the subject as might have
been expected. When the Committee of the Dialectical
Society, after two years’ inquiry, printed its official report
certifying the truth of the phenomena, the English press
did not abuse the committee for doing its duty, seeing which
the Dialectical Society, which had previously been in a state
of abject fear, and too cowardly to print the report of its
own committee, began to pluck up courage. After the re¬
views were out, the secretary to the society wrote a letter to
the papers saying indirectly—u Our committee investigated
this unpopular subject. We are the fathers of the report.”
M. Aksakof also forwards us the following protest against
the report of the University Committee, which protest was
signed by 130 influential persons, and was published in the
Journal de St. Petersburg of May 18th last:—
PROTEST ON THE PART OF THE RUSSIAN PUBLIC AGAINST THE REPORT ON
SPIRITUALISM OF THE ST. PETERSBURG COMMITTEE.
The Scientific Committee formed for the examination of medial
phenomena had for its object, if we may judge by a communication
from M. Mendeleef, published in La Voix, No. 137, “to study with
precision ” these phenomena, and to “ render also important public
service.” M. Mendeleef informs us that at the sittings the following
phenomena were to be the immediate objects for study on the part of
the Commission “ The movement of inanimate objects produced
without contact with human hands; the floating of these objects in the
air; variations in the weight of objects; movements or noises produced
in the said objects, and having the character of being governed by
intelligence, as exemplified by the giving of messages or the answering
of questions; writing by inanimate objects, or psychographic pheno¬
mena ; lastly, the complete or partial presentation of human bodies, or,
in other words, materialisation phenomena.”
The committee promised to hold at least forty seances to study these
various phenomena. To-day the committee declares that its investiga¬
tions are at an end, that “ its object has been attained,” and that it has
arrived unanimously at the following conclusions: “ That Spiritualistic
phenomena are the result of unconscious movements or of conscious
imposture, and that the doctrine of Spiritualism is a superstition.”
This decision of the committee is based—as stated in its report—
upon eight seances, in the four first of which no medial phenomena were
obtained, and in the last four of which the committee saw several
movements of the table and heard several raps. But where are the
observations of the committee upon the movement of objects without
contact with the hands; on the change of the weight of bodies; on
conversational phenomena; and on psychographic and materialisation
manifestations ?
The committee has not carried out, it will be seen, a quarter of tbe
programme which it had laid down for itself, but it has decided, without
any evidence in that direction, against the spiritual “ doctrinea
question which had never been placed in its programme for considera¬
tion. The undersigned think it their duty to declare that, by an
examination so superficial and so rapid, the object of the researches of
the committee has not been attained, and that the committee has not
fulfilled its task. It is evident that it has not collected enough informa¬
tion either to affirm or to deny the existence of the medial phenomena.
After it had sat out eight seances, the committee did not hesitate to
declare that its observations were at an end, although it had no right,
upon the evidence collected during those eight seances, to come to any
absolute decision. The committee undertook its examination in the
name of the interests of a portion of the public, and it has failed to
| guard those interests. It has left the public in the same doubt as
before iu relation to these medial phenomena, which are so well attested
by people of influence and of good faith.
The undersigned, consequently, think that they have a right to
i express the hope that the examination of medial phenomena, which has
been begun in the name of science, will be continued in harmony with
the usual methods of science, and not by persons who have even given a
i verdict against that which they have not seen—against phenomena which
have been verified by others after long and minute study. It is not by
| a partial examination like this that an “ important public service ” can
be rendered.
I (Signed): Avdakow, le prince Bagration, Balaschow, Bardsky, Mme.
i Bartenew, Mme. Barykow, Bakhmetiew, Mme. Baschmakow, Bonvet,
| Mme. Borissow, Mme. Bouniakovsky, Mme. Vassiltchikow, Wiksen-
| stein, le prince de Wittgenstein, Weimarn, Witt, Mme. Vlassow, Mme.
la princesse Yorontsow, Gh6d<$onow, Gepso, Mme laprincesseGalit-
syne-Prozorovsky, Mme. Grediakine, Grediakine, Gren, Grigorovitch,
L. Danilow, J. Danilow, Mme. Dourow, Mme. Evrei'now, Joga, le baron
A. de Jomini, Zinoview, Mme. Zinoview, D. Zinoview, Zagrafo, Mme.
Ivanow, Ignatiew, Mme. Kalinine, N. Kalinine, T. Kalinine, Mme.
Kislinsky, Kischkine, Klimow, le comte Komarovsky, le comte A.
Komarovsky, Constantin, Kressenko, Kruse, le prince A. Kourakine,
le prince B. Kourakine, le prince Kourtsdvitch, Mme. Lavrow, Lanseret,
Lapschine, Levschine, Lvow, Leskow, Makarevsky, Mme. Makarev-
sky, E. Malokhovets, F. Malokhovets, Manoukhine, Markow, Martch-
enko, Matvfeiew, Mey, le baron N. de Meyendorff, Meyer, A. Muller,
P. Muller, Mme. A. Moisseew, N. Moisseew, Montandre, Moskalew,
J | Aubert, la princesse N. Obolensky, le prince 0. Obolensky, Orlow,
i | le prince Pask4vitoh, la princesse Paskevitch, Passek, Pelkhow,
i i Peltser, C. Pirwitz, F. Pirwitz, Pirgow, Polovtsew, Poloubinsky, Pre-
j jentsow, Mme. Y. Pribytkow, Mme. E. Pribytkow, V. Pribytkow,
I Rossolovsky, Rioumine, Salomow, Safonow, Mme. A. Sem now, C.
S.'menow, Serebriakow, Skorodoumow, Mme. Skropotow, Mme. Smo¬
lensky, Starojevsky, Mme. Stepanow, Stok'tow, Mme.. la comtesse
Marie Stroganow, le comte Gregoire Stroganow, le prince A. Sou-
vorow, le prince C. Souvorow, Tatistchew, Timaschevsky, Tokmatchew,
la comtesse A. Tolstoi-, Toman, Torneus, le prince A. Troubetskoi",
I Toutkovsky, Mme. Tyminsky, le prince A. Ouroussow, Mme. Tchelist-
chew, M. Tchelistchew, Tchenovsky, Vladimir, Tchouiko, N. Tchouiko-
II Schago, le prince A. Schakovskoi-, Schmidt, le prince A. Stcherbatow,
11 Stcherbatchew, Yonger.
I j SPIRITUALISM IN ALGIERS.
( j BT MELINE CONTANCEAU.
(I There are no public spirit circles in Algiers; there are
) | only private meetings, where the me mbers are dependent upon
) \ the invitations of friends who receive the sitters and upon the
< i size of the apartments. The best known and most important
| circle consists of from fifteen to eighteen members; admission
> | to seances and the exercise of mediumship are in all cases
| gratuitous. The position and education of the members, and
} | the fact of the medium being disinterested, afford the best
| guarantees of good faith and sincerity. "While it is desired
(| that the number of converts should increase, great caution
I is exercised in admitting strangers to the circle, a belief in
j guardian spirits and a certain amount of knowledge of the
(j Spiritual doctrines being made essential conditions. Expe-
)j rience has taught us the imprudence of introducing new
! members who are bent less upon study and reflection, but
(i seek conviction through tangible facts. Such as these often
| frequent seances in a spirit of curiosity and frivolity, which
II injures the character of the communications. If, in spite of
(! their presence, really interesting phenomena occur, they
j i proceed to relate without discretion all they have seen to
I whomsoever they may meet, are easily intimidated by the
| surprise, denial, or banter of the ignorant and incredulous,
| then seem to forget what they have seen, or are ashamed for
(| having for a moment attached any importance to it. Others
(i seek Spiritism with ardour while they are in trouble, perhaps
) | seeking means of relief, but more often for the sake of com-
)! municating with their departed friends. Among these a
(| few are serious, and remain sincere * supporters of the doc-
) i trine, but the greater number soon forget both their fervour
sj and their sorrow. True Spiritualism appeals neither to the
(| enthusiast nor the fanatic; it appeals to the reason and
) I judgment, and those cannot be counted Spiritualists, or
ij capable of becoming such who enter into it for personal
] ends, whether it be to satisfy their curiosity or to appease
| their grief.
Nearly all our mediums are writers, impressional or
I mechanical; one is a trance medium, and sometimes gives
j very remarkable addresses. \\ e have no physical medium,
I and do not seek to develope any. Believing, that notwith-
j standing our free-will, our actions, our work, our thoughts
| must all conduce to universal progress and to our own ad-
268 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 9, 1876.
vancementj we feel that every spirit incarnate or disincarnate
is placed in circumstances in which he can be most useful to
others and to himself. Tips is a universal law, and in the
present case it explains why certain faculties are found more
frequently among some people than among others, are more
used and appreciated by them, and appear to respond to the
necessities of their character. In England and America,
where publicity is easy, and where there is no bar to the
multiplication of circles, the mission of spiritual societies is
naturally of a propagandist nature, and physical manifesta¬
tions being the most conducive to this end, physical mediums
are more numerous than in France or Algeria, where isolated
circles are composed of members who require no new proof,
and who cultivate therefore the question from its moral side.
We read with the greatest interest the relation of experi¬
ments performed in England with regard to the materialisa¬
tion of spirits, modifications in the weight of bodies, the
direct production of raps and musical sounds ; these are for ;
us interesting subjects of study, but they can be of no real 11
use to us; and we are besides convinced that the spirits who ! j
communicate with us would not consent to the practice of | J
them. It is neither their mission nor ours; if we did not H
understand this, they would leave us. Frivolous and de- !
ceiving spirits would take their place, and we should be sub- !
ject to every kind of mystification. I
English Spiritualists having entered on another branch, [j
which they are pursuing with success, are doubtless aided by !
superior spirits who direct their labours, and are thus pro- j
tected against the bad influences which earth-bound spirits |
might be able to exercise. There can be no doubt that the j}
spirits who produce the physical manifestations are not of a j
high order; they are the pioneers who execute work they j
are unfit to originate, for it cannot be supposed that ad- i
vanced spirits come at the call of a medium to raise tables, i !
ring bells, or play on the accordion. When Katie King, ]1
the beautiful young girl who communicated through the j j
mediumship of Miss Cook, said she could no longer ma- I |
terialise, it was doubtless because, having fulfilled that j j
particular task, she was called to accomplish something j j
higher. We cannot suppose that progress does not exist in j j
the invisible world as well as in ours; the inequality which [])
is found everywhere among planets and among individuals j j
would be otherwise inexplicable and unjust, and we should ! j
be incapable of raising ourselves. The law of morals must j j
be analogous to that of physics, and mind much more even | |
than matter must be capable of never-ending progression.
The greatest results are often brought about by the j j
humblest causes, and whatever may be the nature of the j |
spirits who come to givens material proof of their existence, |jj
it is incontestable that they are performing a work whose j |
results will be immense for humanity. They are preparing ! |
a complete moral renovation, and teaching man to eman- | |
cipate himself from the fetters of ignorance and error, from j j
dogmas which are an insult to our judgment, and from a ! j
materialism which is opposed to both reason and sentiment. | |
When the condition of the soul after death is better under- | i
stood, the terror as well as the hope taught by mysticism will j j
vanish. When, also, by the observations of spiritual facts | j
our savans are convinced of the existence of laws and forces j j
at present unknown to them, and which they cannot control; j j
when they have confessed that the study of matter will not i f
give a sufficient explanation for all that occurs in nature, no | f
materialistic system can survive, for it would be proved j j
that something higher exists than our senses can perceive, or j j
our calculations attain to. r | i
In Algeria, as in all new centres of society, individuality j j
is very strongly marked; prejudices have little weight, and | |
new ideas are easily received; thus, when Spiritualism was j !
first introduced, it was taken up in the best circles. A good | j
deal of this early zeal has, however, died out of it. In 1865 j j
an episcopal decree kept back all those who were not pre- i |
pared to give up Catholic orthodoxy; the others, more j j
sceptical or indifferent, are too much absorbed by business [ j
or a life of pleasure to devote themselves to philosophic i j
studies, and the greater number are deterred by the necessity m
for reform in their conduct, exacted by a doctrine which is \n
based upon logic and morality. Spiritualism admits of no m
compromise either with heaven or ourselves ; it obliges us to jij
do good, and lays upon us the responsibility of our acts.
For the Spiritualists no blind faith in revealed mysteries, no
pious gifts nor useless abnegations, can procure indulgences ;
the remission of sins is only obtained by repentance and a
changed life.
Although at present Spiritualism has not many followers
in this country, it would be a mistake to suppose that its
influence has diminished. If it makes less noise, it is
because its elements have become condensed, and by closely
uniting together, they have lost nothing in force or durability.
Books on Spiritualism have been, and still are, eagerly read ;
and with the exception of the clerical organs, which are few
in number, and quite powerless, it may be said that the
subject inspires neither fear nor scandal, and meets with no
hostility.
L’Agha, Algiers, May, 1876.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Captain Kelso, R.N., was elected a member of the Council, in which
there has been a vacancy.
MEMORT CONSIDERED AS A PROOF OF THE INDEPENDENT EXISTENCE OF THE
SOUL.
Mr. Serjeant Cox then read a paper entitled u Memory and Recollec¬
tion.” He asked, “ Is our sense of identity due to memory and memory
alone ?” For instance, the smelling of a rose conveyed certain sensa¬
tions, and on smelling it a second time the same sensations were recalled;
if on the second occasion the individual did not remember what had
taken place on the first occasion, would he possess any sense of identity ?
He thought there was some other foundation for the sense of identity
than that given by memory ; for instance, a man never thought that
he was somebody else, and persons sometimes had impressed upon their
memories words to which they had paid no attention at the time they
heard them, as in the celebrated case of the servant girl who repeated
Greek and Hebrew quotations to which she had paid little attention
when she heard her master uttering them some years before. Memory
was supposed by materialists to be a power possessed by the brain, of
placing its molecules in exactly the same position as that in which they
were at the time the event occurred, but the explanation was a weak
one, because the changes constantly going on in the material structure
of the brain were almost infinite. The psychological theory of the
phenomenon was, however, more simple, and was based upon the
assumption of the existence of the individual as a soul occupying the
body. The brain he admitted to be a piece of mental mechanism, but
memory he believed to be the faculty which the soul had of receiving
and storing up impressions conveyed to it by the brain; thus memory,
he thought, furnished one of the most cogent proofs of the existence of
the soul. Memory and recollection were different things. The memory
received and retained impressions from the brain, but recollection was
the process by which those circumstances were recalled. There was
no such thing as a good or bad memory, but the faculty of recollection
might or might not be in good condition at various times. There were
emotional times when the recollection became more active, and more
susceptible to the influence of the memory. Gall contended that each
organ of the brain had its own memory, an assertion which meta¬
physicians denied; the latter explained the observed facts by saying
that memory was more employed for one subject than for another.
The power of recollection was proportionate to the force of transmission
by the brain of events to the memory, therefore phrenologists were
right to a certain extent, but memory was not a faculty of the brain.
On this hypothesis it followed that if the soul existed after the death
of the body, it would have before it every action of its past life.
ABNORMAL STATES OF THE RECOLLECTION DURING DELIRIUM.
Captain Kelso said that thirteen years ago he was in a vessel in
which half the men, and most of the officers, were down with yellow
fever, which raged on board for two months. At last it attacked the
doctor, and, as he was the only medical man in the ship, it was a serious
matter. While the doctor was ill with the fever, he spoke three dif¬
ferent languages; during the early part of the attack he spoke French,
at the worst part he spoke Italian, and towards the close he spoke in
German. He pulled through the illness, and was in good health at the
present time. The doctor said that before the illness he had little
knowledge of French, and had entirely forgotten Italian and German,
but that ho had learned all three languages when he was a boy at school.
When quite well he knew little about any of them.
PRE-EXISTENCE.
Mr. Spencer wished to know how Mr. Serjeant Cox explained the
oblivion of the soul to any conditions which might have surrounded it
before it began life in this world.
'*• Mr. F. K. Munton remarked that if the theory of the president was
right that memory was a function of the soul, it was to some extent an
answer to Mr. Spencer’s question, the argument of the reader of the
paper being that the soul was more unfettered when away from the
body. The president had suggested that it might be possible that the
soul had previously existed in another body. Mr. Serjeant Cox’s idea
of the possibility of the soul having existed in two bodies was capable
June 9, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of extension, for if it ever existed in two, there was no reason why it
should not have existed in a dozen at different times. He should like
to hear his answer to this question, and to know what limit he would
lay down. He thought the paper read before them that evening had
been one of the best ever submitted to that society, and the fact of
there being such a good audience to listen to it in the month of June
was evidence that a great deal of interest was felt in the subjects dealt
with by the Psychological Society. (Applause.)
Mr. Serjeant Cox explained that he had not said that the soul had
pre-existed ; all the evidence to nil mind went to show that such was
not the case. Alleged souls sometimes stated that they had passed
through several earthly existences, but they never proved it. For
instance, when they said that they had lived on this earth 300 years
ago, they never displayed any accurate knowledge of events that had
taken place at that time.
ABNORMAL POWERS OF RECOLLECTION.
Professor Plumtree said that he could give an instance of the speaking
of a language during illness which the invalid had not heard for many
years. A lady, very near and dear to him, after passing through a
serious fever, was suddenly attacked with delirium. She then spoke in
a language unknown to himself and to everybody else present, and gave
out the words in a strange monotonous chant. This alarmed those who
were in attendance upon her, and her sister was sent for. When the
sister arrived she recognised the language and the chant; it was Tamil,
one of the languages of India, and was a simple song which the village
people were in the habit of chanting, but which the sufferer had not
heard for many years. In this case he tried mesmerism, although he
had very little faith in his own powers. After the patient had been
lulled to sleep for a quarter of an hour, she said that she saw Mr.
Wingfield coming to the door to ask after her. Soon there was a knock
at the door, and Mr. Wingfield came in to make inquiries. This was
the only instance of supersensuous perception which had ever come
under his own observation.
A GOOD CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. Gordon thought that the charge might be brought against the
author of the paper that he had begged the whole question, because
at the outset he was obliged to take the existence of the soul for
granted. He even went further, and deliberately claimed the soul to
be immortal; he, in addition, had almost laid himself open to the
charge of having said that the soul had existed before the present life
began, but this point he had since denied; If, in the discussion of
scientific questions, theses were to be brought forward, based upon
nothing but the imagination, and unsupported by evidence, the society
might found whole realms upon premises which existed only in the
fancy of men. He (Mr. Gordon) did not assert that man had no soul,
but that no scientific evidence of its existence apart from the body had
yet been produced. If the soul had had a previous existence it was
impossible to suppose that the man would not have some recollection
of that previous life. The idea of one soul inhabiting various bodies
was absurd, because there was nothing in the whole history of man¬
kind tending to prove such an extraordinary theory. The soul and the
body Were evidently coterminous, so far as the beginning of
life was concerned; afterwards they never operated apart ; con¬
sequently there was most astonishing strength in the argument
of the materialists of the day, that the separate existence of the
soul was a fiction of the imagination. He submitted that the
action of the memory was nothing more' than-'an action of the
brain. Mankind had a fanciful love for existence in other spheres,
which it was utterly impossible to attain ; a feeling of despair was the
bottom and root of the hope—for it was nothing more than a hope—of
there being a life beyond the grave. Before sitting down he would
mention a case of supersensuous perception. He had been travelling
in Germany with Mr. Hutchinson, a gentleman well known in Paris,
and, while they were in the train together, Mi;. Hutchinson recom¬
mended him to read a book entitled Three Years before the Mast. His
friend had been born in America, of good family, but in that country it
was considered almost the proper thing for boys to run away to sea.
Mr. Hutchinson had done so, and obtained work on board a trader
which made passages between London and New York. He let his
friends know that letters would find him in London and Paris. On
reaching Europe he received a letter telling him that his sister was
dangerously ill, and asking him to return home at once if he wished to
see her again alive, and he started for New York at a time she was
suffering from fever and delirium. "When he was within about a day’s
sail of New York, on Christmas eve, she told her friends that her
brother Alexander was coming back, and would arrive on the morrow;
and she made this statement although Mr. Hutchinson had never
written a letter home of any kind whatever. She described the places
he had been to, and told them what presents he had collected in Paris,
London, and Rome, for various members of the family. She further
stated what particular presents were intended for each particular indi¬
vidual. When Mr. Hutchinson arrived he was informed of this, and
they gave him a list of the things which he had brought, and which
were at that moment packed up on board the ship. The list was quite
accurate. He (Mr. Gordon) had not the slightest doubt about Mr.
Hutchinson’s veracity as a gentleman.
Mr. Yolckman remarked that the paper showed that there was a pre¬
vious question which had not been fully discussed, and about which
there was a certain amount of uncertainty in the minds of the speakers;
that is to say, the whole question of the duality of existence had been
begged. The subject of the duality of the body and mind had scarcely
been touched.
Mr. Rawlinson thought that the circumstance that the body was born
only to die, and that memory was a faculty of the soul, was one reason
of the failing of recollection in old age. This also explained how the
memory was sometimes stimulated during moments of excitement.
289
Another member of the society said that Mr. Serjeant Cor had
stated that memory consisted of impressions made upon the soul and
not upon the brain. He had also spoken of impressions upon the brain
which were not made upon the soul. If the soul was the sum of all
the powers and potentialities of the organism, it was of interest to in¬
quire where was its location. He thought that there was no inferential
evidence of the existence of the soul. The brightest minds agreed that
the power of the soul was limited, and that the finite could not draw
inferences about the infinite. There was no evidence whatever of the
existence of the soul, and that man had not lived before he entered
this life was proved by the circumstance that every infant had to go
through the process of acquiring the elements of knowledge.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, in reply to the various speakers, admitted that
there was a difficulty about the use of the word “ soul,” by which he
meant that sense of individuality which all of them had. Many facts,
he thought, pointed to the independent existence of the soul, and none
of them more strongly than the faculty of memory. Memory was
something lasting, whilst the body was constantly changing; every
atom of the human body was changed four or five times in the course
of a long life, yet the memory remained the same. If the reality of
memory were proved to be inconsistent with material conditions, then
it was a fair argument that memory was connected with some other
conditions than those which were material, although those other con¬
ditions were not yet understood. He would ask the materialistic
friends present to explain memory on the materialistic hypothesis. By
what process could memory be explained on the assumption that it was
a function of the material brain alone ? He thought that the conscious
self stored up impressions conveyed to it by the brain. Some
materialists thought that the brain itself stored up the impressions by
a kind of photographic process, one set of impressions lying upon
another. One would suppose that there was not room in the brain to
pack away such a quantity of impressions ; besides, events were not re¬
collected in the order in which they occurred, and this tended to show
that recollection was not an unpacking or mechanical process. He
wished the materialists would give him a good theory of memory. He
was disposed to think that human beings and all nature consisted of
two substances, and that the outside, or visible world, was but the in¬
crustation of a structure of another kind; also that the human body was
merely the material mechanism necessary to enable the soul to act upon
the material world. If they supposed the soul to be severed from
material conditions, it was quite possible that it would then be able to
receive and to convey impressions by other means than those incidental
to the material structure and its conditions ; the freed soul might have
larger faculties than when it was limited by the brain and the body.
THE YORK GHOST.
Mr. Yolckman wanted to know whether the secretary had made in¬
quiries about the ghost at York.
The Honorary Secretary said that before he despatched a letter of-
inquiry he saw in print a letter from the rector of Holy Trinity Church,
York, setting forth that the supposed ghosts were due to persons walk¬
ing in the vicarage garden, and seen dimly through a stained window.
(Laughter.) He had consequently made no further inquiry into the
matter. ,
Mr. Munton further announced that the next meeting of the Psycho¬
logical Society, to be held on the 15th of June, will be the last of ihe
present session. He added that any persons who joined the society after
the 15th of June next, would have to pay but one annual subscription
for the present year and the whole of the year 1877,
The proceedings then closed.
The Spanish Society of Spiritualists at Madrid has entered into
official alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
and its journal, El Criteria Espiritista, is now regularly received at
38, Great Russell-street.
The Messager announces that the Belgian Confederation of Spirit¬
ists will hold the first annual meeting of its members at Liege
during the month of August, when subjects of great interest to the.
Spiritist movement will be discussed.
The Hague Society Oromase has elected as its president for the year
Mr. W. C. Piepers, an officer in the Dutch army, residing at Denneweg,-
50, The Hague, to whom all communications on Spiritualistic subjects
in Holland should be addressed.
An open-air service will be held at Bury, on Sunday, June 11th, at
2 pm., under the auspices of the Lancashire District Committee of
Spiritualists. In the evening a second service will be held in the Cook-
street Assembly Room, Bury. Mr. W. Johnson, trance medium, will
deliver an address.
The Linguistic Powers of Spirits.—Mr. Alfred Firman, the
medium, recently visited London with M. Gustave de Yeh, of Paris ; he
also spent a few days in Manchester, then returned to the Continent.
He states that he is about to give some seances to the Duke of Leuch-
tenberg, nephew to the Emperor , of Russia. "While in Manchester Mr.
Firman attended Herr Reimers’ usual circle, and his presence seemed to-
add to the power. Herr Reimers says:—“A remarkable new feature
was the speaking of German by the spirit on' these occasions, although
Mr. Firman’s actual knowledge of it is out of proportion to the pro¬
ficiency displayed. His own spirit guide speaks in any language repre¬
sented by even only one person in the circle ; the medium converses only
in French and English. The spirit once explained: ‘ I take it from the
brains of those present.’ Such explanations only increase the puzzle.
Mr. Firman told us of a stance at Williams’s the other week, where
John King spoke fluently in French and German, which ought to induce
the other witnesses (among them Count Buhner), to furnish a detailed
report of the facts, the astonishing items of which seem to have crushed
his intention, expressed on the spot, to draw up a report for publication.”
270
Juiit] 9,1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
BAPTISM OF THE TWO MEDIAL CHILDREN OF
MRS. KATE FOX-JENCKEN.
Last Sunday, the 3rd June, at six o’clock in the after¬
noon, the two medial children of the well-known Kate Fox
(now Mrs. Jencken) were christened at St. Mary Wool noth,
in the City of London, by the Eev. Dr. Irons. The sponsors
of the eldest hoy—whose name is familiar to the Spiritualist
public as the baby medium Ferdy—-were Mr. John Enmore
Jones and Mrs. Irons, also Mrs. Daniel Underhill and Mr.
Daniel Underhill, of Few York, the aunt and uncle of the
boy. These absent relatives responded by deputy. Ferdy’s
name is Ferdinand Loewenstein Jencken. The sponsors to
the youngest boy, whose name now is Henry Diedrich
Loewenstein Jencken, were Mrs. Cholmondeley Pennell and
Mr. Cholmondeley Pennell, late Director-General of Trade
and Commerce for Egypt. His second godmother, who re¬
sponded by deputy, was Mrs. Jencken’s sister Margaret,
known among Spiritualists as the little ‘| Maggie,” in whose
presence and. that of Kate Fox the first spiritual manifesta¬
tions in America began.
It was not publicly known in advance that this christen¬
ing was to take place, or there would have been a large
attendance at the church in Lombard-street. Among the
few observers were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and Mrs.
Ker, sister of Alfred Tennyson, the Poet Laureate.
In spite of every effort on the part of Mrs. Jencken to
keep her unseen friends quiet, she having promised Dr.
Irons, if possible, not to allow obtrusion, they came, and j
in a subdued manner, rapped in response to the intoning |
and reading of the service. During the ceremony they |
maintained their right to be heard, so quietly that only j
those close to Mrs. Jencken could hear how they signalled I
“Yes” to some parts of the service, and “Ho” to others, j|
but heard they were as the Rev. Dr. Irons uttered the prayers i
and blessings, and finally, after the baptism, kissed the i
little fellows. ;j
Ferdy, for so we still call him, despite the long family |
name of his grandmother, Loewenstein (which means |
“ Lion-star”), was held up to the font by Mr. Enmore Jones, !
and appeared to take the proceedings in a very quiet mood, ||
as the water in large crystal drops clung to his curly hair. !
He evidently enjoyed the ceremony, which was an impressive j
one, the chant of the choir intensifying the solemnity of the j
proceedings. |)
After the ceremony was over, Mr. W. H. Harrison (who jj
with Mr. Cholmondeley Pennell had been present two years j
ago at the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken), accompanied j
the children and their parents home, and in the course of m
the evening the spirits with unusually powerful raps, by way I |
of reaction from the previous restraint on their desires, gave | j
the following message to Mr. Jencken:—“Goodwill come
from this baptism ; still we do not consider it all-important | j
for the saving of souls. Your firstborn \yill some day be the I
instrument of bringing Spiritualism into that church and jjj
many churches of England, therefore this christening will m
do great good.—Your father.”
; ' --11
JULES FAYRE ADVOCATING THE REALITY OF PSYCHO- |
LOGICAL PHENOMENA IN A COURT OF LAW.
The Revue Spirite states that on the 18th May last, Madame Roger. ||i
a somnambulist, was brought before the Tribunal Correctionnel of the I j i
Seine, charged with an attempt to swindle, in company with her mes- jji
merist, M. Fortier. M. Jules Favre, the most celebrated advocate in jj!
France, and who formerly held a distinguished place in the ministry, i);
appeared for the defence. His speech was of an hour and a half's i j
duration, and is reported to have held the judges and a crowded \l\
audience spell-bound by its eloquence. He concluded by saying : “We ijj
are in the presence of a phenomenon which science admits, without i !
attempting to explain. The public may smile at it, but our most illus- ijj
trious physicians regard it with gravity. Justice can no longer ignore i) i
wimt science has acknowledged.” The aged Baron du Botet, who has j)j
represented the French school of mesmerism for more than fifty years, i (i
was also heard with deep attention as he expounded some of the facts of j) j
the science of which he is so great a master. If the same arguments i) i
had been accepted with regard to spiritual phenomena last year, ijj
Ley marie would not have fallen a victim to the ignorance of jurists and ijj
the fanaticism of priests.
The trial lasted three hours. The result is, that the practice of mes- jjj
meric clairvoyance will no longer be considered a crime in France. One j) i
step further, and Spiritualism itself will be a fait accompli in the eye i)i
of the law, i(i
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS WHILE THE MEDIUM WAS SEWN IN A BAO.
BY LYDIA WISEMAN.
Hot having seen anything of Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship
I went, accompanied by a friend, to a seance with that
medium at 38, Great Russell-street, on Friday, the 2nd inst.
The wrists of the medium’s coat sleeves were securely
sewn to the knees of his trousers, and he was tied round the
waist to the back of his chair. A bell and a stringed
musical instrument were placed on the ground behind him
in the cabinet and the curtains drawn, leaving his hands and
knees in full view. The gas was lowered, and in ten or fifteen
minutes “ a voice ” from the cabinet, said to be that of
Mr. Eglinton’s controlling spirit, greeted the company, ask¬
ing the names of the strangers. Mr. Tapp introduced me,
when the voice said, “ I know Mrs. Wiseman; lam very glad
to see her and her friend.” Mr. Tapp then asked him to do
something for us* He answered, “ We will do what we can,
but the medium is not well; we wish to do something new.
Start the musical box.” This being done an attempt to
keep time with it upon the stringed instrument in the cabinet
was made. Faces were seen by two Or three of the company
between the curtains, which at this time were opened about
a foot by unseen hands, which also held them apart. The
most sceptical of observers could not deny that the hands
and knees of the medium were distinctly seen, as arranged
at the commencement of our sitting.
The next manifestation of interest was a light which
seemed to proceed from the palms of the medium’s hands;
one of the party said it was a handkerchief, which it some¬
what resembled in form. To me it appeared in substance
like a fleecy cloud, undulating for a few seconds; then it
was drawn back under the medium’s chair, and at the same
time it was fading away. After a short break the hands of
the medium were tied cunningly together, and he was placed
in a calico bag, which was sewn up tightly to his throat; he
was then re-seated in his chair, and the curtains were drawn.
The, spirit asked that a pair of black gloves might be laid
upon a small table in front of the cabinet. This was done
by a stranger, Mr. Terrell, who, as was afterwards found,
had provided them for a special test, which he had only men¬
tioned to Miss Kislingbury, before entering the seance room.
The spirit then asked for matches “ that had no smell,” and
some sealing wax. Taking these from Mr. Tapp, he observed,
“I hope we shan’t burn the medium.” Presently we heard
several attempts to strike a light, two of which were success¬
ful, showing through the curtains that the light was under
the medium’s chair, about a foot from the ground. After
this a book was placed, by “ Joey’s” request, on Mr. Eglin-
ton’s knees, and was distinctly seen by all present to open
and shut several times. When the entranced medium was
released from the bag, he found the black gloves on his
hands, buttoned, and dabbled with sealing wax. The
matches and wax were found at the feet of the medium inside
the bag.
My friend Mrs. E. T. Chaplin also desires to add her testi¬
mony to the above.
1, Orme-square, Palace-gardens, London, June 3rd, 187G.
In reference to the black gloves, I may add that when Mr.
Terrell asked me whether he should be allowed to impose his
own test, I replied that I did not know, and I made no
further mention of it; the gloves were not mentioned in the
circle until the spirit himself asked^ for them. Heither the
medium nor any one present but myself and Mr. Terrell, and
probably his friend, knew anything of the proposed glove
test. The members present at the seance were Mrs. Wiseman,
Mrs. Chaplin, Captain James, late of the 90th Light
Infantry, Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Mr. T. Terrell,
Mr. E. S. Morris, Mrs. Mackinnon, Mr. F. Hapier, Lt. R.H.,
Mr. R. Stock, Lt. R.H., Mr. G. R. Tapp, on behalf of the
Seance Committee of the Association, and myself.
E. Kislingbuky,
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
The Bamford Brothers have lately given two successful seances to
some non-Spiritualists, at the Mechanics’ Institute, Stockport, accounts
of which have appeared in the Stockport Advertiser.
fHE SPIRITtTALIST.
271
June §, 1876.
ABNORMAL SPECTRES OF WOLVES, DOGS, AND OTHER
ANIMALS.
BY EMILE, PRIXCE OF WITTGENSTEIX.
The following letter from Prince Wittgenstein, who re¬
turned from Russia to Vevey, Switzerland, directly after the
close of the work of the St. Petersburg Scientific Committee
for the Investigation of Spiritualism, deals with strange
psychological facts of great interest:—
Dear Mr. Harrison,—The instances of phantom animals,
alluded to in several recent numbers of The Spiritualist,
induce me to state what I know about that subject.
It is curious that the nature of abnormal apparitions
corresponds more or less with the nationality of persons or
families haunted by them, and with the country in which
they are seen. Thus, among the Celts, Romans, Slavs, and
races related to them, ghosts more usually appear in the
open country, in meadows, in forests, near lonely crosses or
cross-roads, or in churchyards; while in countries peopled
by Saxon elements they seem to prefer old castles, churches,
ruins, and isolated houses. The German, and I suppose
also the English apparitions, such as nuns, monks, white or
black ladies, and gnomish dwarfs—as in the Leiningen
family—are more usually tutelary spirits, who protect the
house, or warn its inmates before an impending death or
misfortune; while among the aforesaid nationalities the
manifesting ghosts are mostly sham animals, mischievous
and wicked, and seem to have a mission only to frighten or
harm. The only exception to this rule known to me is the
Domovoi (literally, “The One of the House”), a kind,
harmless gnome, who haunts the Russian peasant’s cot,
preserves it from fire, protects the children, causes the cows
to give abundant milk, prevents diseases among men and
cattle ; it also, however, plays all kinds of tricks; it upsets
pails, causes the girls to stumble, entangles the horses’
manes, hides the drunkard’s boots to hinder him from going
to the brandy-shop, smashes the looking-glass of the village
flirt, splashes hot soup into the greedy one’s face, and causes
the furniture, dishes, and household vessels to fly and dance
about the room in an awful way.
Of all the countries I know, France, and especially those
parts of France where the Celtic blood predominates, offers,
I believe, the greatest variety of abnormal spiritual mani¬
festations. Thus, in Morbihan and in Finisterre, the
“ Grande Bete” a gigantic and luminous bull, pursues those
who are late on their homeward road on stormy nights.
When the moon is in its last quarter the wanderer meets, in
certain lonely parts of the forest or heath, the “ Meneur de
Loups” a man or phantom—no one knows exactly what—
having the appearance of a shepherd, and leading a flock of
wolves. Then again there is the “ Loup Garou” a fright¬
ful wolf, which jumps by night upon the back of the lonely
traveller, urging him to run until he falls down exhausted.
In Corsica an enormous fly, bigger than a calf, sometimes
appears, foreboding dreadful epidemics.
Black dogs, shaggy horses, bucks, gigantic hares, and
wolves are the most frequent apparitions in the steppes of
Russia, and Slav traditions about them seem to have been
imported into those parts of Germany where in former times
Slavs (as Wends and Sorbes) have settled. Some years
ago, I myself tried a curious experiment in connection with
this subject, at the Richthof, an ancient, isolated hunting
pavilion, high up in the Hessian mountains, surrounded
with forests, and belonging to my brother-in-law, the Count
of G., who is in the habit of spending some months there
with his family during the hot season. The greatest part of
the surrounding population is of Wendish origin. Mme.
Courtin, a friend of mine, a powerful French non-professional
medium, with whom I formerly had had many sittings, came
to see us there, and on the same evening we two had a seance.
I had previously mesmerised her to sleep, for the somnam¬
bulic state increased her medial power to a high degree.
After some efforts to obtain a written communication, she
left off in great perturbation, stating that she was disturbed
by a big, horrible, phosphorescent white buck, who kept,
running round the house, or climbing up the walls to the.
roof, staring at her with wicked, glaring eyes,. When I next
| morning related the fact to my very sceptical brother-in-
] law, he was greatly amazed, and told me that there was
| indeed a superstition in the neighbourhood about a white
( buck being seen at times, by night, running about the roof,
U or standing on a chimney of the Richthof. We tried in
m vain, during the following evenings, to obtain communica-
(| tions ; the buck constantly worried the medium, and became
)j at last so powerful, that she, even when not mesmerised,
sj and in our company, saw him rushing over the bowling-
(j green, standing on the roof, or glaring at her through the
)| leaves of the bushes. She heard him bleat (and so did I
<| and my brothers) and walk about her room. My servant,
? j who slept under the roof, was often disturbed by his tramping
) | overhead. At last the nuisance became so strong, that, in
si the presence of several of us, doors and cupboards were
) | thrown open and reclosed, pieces of furniture were tossed
ij about, and bells made to ring, without anybody touching
s I them. The house was only quieted when Madame Courtin
11 and I had, at the injunction of our spirit guides, left it.
) I They strongly urged us to do so, stating that the spirit who
s i assumed the aforesaid shape was one of the most wicked and
) | powerful nature, and that he might finally get possession of
)j one of us, if we did not leave off exciting him. The place
(j where the house stands now is said to have been, many
)j centuries ago, a place of execution, where the Vehme (the
[I Secret Tribunal) punished great criminals; therefore it is
|! easy to presume that the spot may still be haunted by evil
) i spirits.
{} Another case within my recollection is the following:—
<! Some eleven or twelve years ago, while residing at Warsaw,
; I presented my wife with a small Scotch terrier, to which
| she had become much attached. One evening, on calling
<| to pay her a visit, I found her quite disturbed by the fact of
11 her dog having suddenly rushed under the sofa, when she
11 had tried to pat its head; she had previously seen it for a
i long time lying near her on an arm-chair, but had taken
! little heed of it, as she was occupied in writing a letter.
| The dog having thus disappeared, she first tried [to coax it
(| out of its hiding-place; then she seized a stick, in order to
jj drive it out; and, finally, took to looking for it in every
| corner, without success; the dog was nowhere to be found.
| She accordingly left the room to look for it elsewhere, and
i ended by finding it in another part of the house, quietly
i asleep on her brother’s lap. Her brother affirmed that it
| had been with him more than an hour. I was then rather
i a good medium, and immediately asked one of my spirits for
| the explanation of the phenomenon.' I was told that an evil
i spirit, which bore a great hatred to the lady, had momentarily
| j succeeded in assuming the form of her dog, hoping to be
; able, if she touched it, to get possession of her, and that her
| guardian spirit had averted the design, by forcing the sham-
jl dog to elude her touch.
(| During my residence many years ago in Bohemia, at the
I) | house of a friendjiow passed away, I was told of a castle in
the neighbourhood, of which I forget the name, where, a
short time before the death of any member of the family, a
black dog was said to be seen, in broad daylight, emerging
from a postern door in the ancient battlements, and trotting
! down the road to a ruined chapel, in the shade of which it
disappeared. This legend has existed for centuries. Those
who have seen the apparition have frequently tried, in vain,
! to overtake it; some have followed it into the chapel, and
searched every corner, without result. There are now (or at
I least were, at the time when I visited the country) several
peasants and old servants alive, who swore to having seen
“the dog” shortly before the deaths of some of the'
members of the family; and those who told me the story
seemed firmly to believe in it, although none of them knew a
j word about Spiritualism.
Another still stranger story was related to me last year by
a Russian lady, the Princess * * *, and corroborated by her
confidential maid, an old Englishwoman, Jane, who has now
been staying with her for more than twenty years. I have
no doubt whatever of the truth of their assertions. Some
| twelve or fifteen years ago, during a visit to Paris, the
Princess, who was then a young, beautiful, and very elegant
) i woman, had made a deep impression on a French gentleman,
I. with whom she in the end fell desperately in love. Very
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 9, 1876.
soon, however, they were forced to part, the Princess being I
suddenly obliged to start for Russia. She arrived at Moscow j
in great despondency, followed only by her faithful Jane, i
who tried in vain to soothe her. On the first day of her I
arrival, having paid some visits, the Princess returned home, !
and found lying, on one of her pelisses in the anteroom, a nice ||
little Havanese dog, which jumped at her in a wild paroxysm (I
of joy, whimpering, coaxing, and following her step by step,
without allowing any one else to approach. She had at first I
tried to turn it out, but it kept on barking, howling, and U
scratching at the door, until finally it was let in again. \)
From that day it became its mistress’s inseparable com- !
panion, showing her a matchless affection, and growling and |
gnashing its teeth at anybody else, except Jane. Both she |
and the Princess swore to me that from the very first |
moment they had been struck—nearly awed—by a vague j
resemblance between the dog’s face and that of the French j
gentleman, whom I will call X—. The eyes especially, of i
an exceptional blue colour, seemed strangely identical, and j
had the same fond, thoughtful look. Helata refero. \
Fearing the gossip and comments of her nearer acquaint- i
ances and relations, the Princess had given to X— an |
address away from her house, where his letters and telegrams j
were to be sent, and where Jane regularly went to fetch !
them. Every time a new missive arrived, the dog gave I
great signs of disturbance and rapture, jumping about, |
barking, and seeming to read in the eyes of his mistress the ||
impression produced. Once she was driving in her sledge |
in the direction of the aforesaid private post-office, without ;
supposing anything to be waiting for her there, as she had |]
already received one letter that morning. As they approached |
the house, the dog, which had been quietly asleep in her ;
pelisse, began to fidget about, and to try to escape, till at :
last, on passing the spot, it barked so furiously and made j
such desperate efforts to jump at the coachman, as if to stop j
him, that the Princess at last ordered him to turn back and |
wait before the house, where, to her amazement, she found a ;
telegram just arrived.
Several months passed. X—’slettersbecamerarerandcooler. j
At last she accidentally heard that he was very busy in Paris j
paying court to a rich heiress. She went to bed that night |
in a great fit of sadness and anger. Being afraid to sleep |
alone, she always had Jane with her, in a bed close to her j
own. The doors were always locked, like those of a fortress. |
Neither of them could go to sleep under so painful an im- I
pression. They kept on talking, the Princess abusing X—, |
and Jane trying to soothe her by speaking in his defence, j
The discussion grew warmer, until the Princess^ losing her j
temper, exclaimed, “I will hear nothing more of him! |
Devil take him ! ” At that instant the dog, which had been j
lying seemingly asleep on his mistress’s bed, gave a dismal j
howl, jumped to the floor, and was never seen more, not- |
withstanding that they, after having searched the locked ]|
room, even in its most hidden recesses, had, on the following !
morning, caused the whole house to be turned upside down |)
in the endeavour to find the animal. The police were set in j
motion, rewards were offered in the newspapers, but all in j
vain—the dog seemed to have evaporated! Unfortunately, |
the Princess finished by consoling herself, so has never since j
met X—, whom she has quite lost sight of. Thus it has j
been impossible for me to ascertain whether or not he knew !
anything about this strange matter, and whether some mys- j
terious link really existed between him and his canine !
double.
Explain all this who may, I am no match for the problem, j
I only regret that Ido not possess Mr. Reimers’ Sympathetic |
and amusing pen, which would have rendered this strange I
story much more interesting to your readers than my foreign :
one has been able to do.
At all events, I suppose that if spirits can—as.we know j
they can—momentarily assume the palpable and visible I
shapes of human beings, they may also, by congregating |
seme of the floating atoms from the animal organisms which j
perhaps surround us in even greater profusion than those j
from men, give the appearance of life also to animal shapes. !
And with this, my dear Mr. Harrison, believe me, truly I
yours, Emile, j
Yeyey, Switzerland, June 1st, 1876. Prince of Wittgenstein. jj
SPIRITUALISM IN SPAIN.
Through the courtesy of the Viscount de Torres-Solanot
we are in possession of the Spanish Spiritualistic newspapers
of the latest dates, which afford means for estimating in
some manner the progress of Spiritualism across the
Pyrenees. The Criterio Spiritister is the official organ of
the Spanish Society of Spiritualists, and of the Spiritualist
Club. The numbers for March and April give a fair sample
of the value of the work done. The March number com¬
mences with an article on “ Physical Manifestations ” by
Senor D. Suarez, in which the author points out that the old
proverb which set appointed limits to the human under¬
standing may be altered, and that it should now read, “Thus
far thou hast passed, thus further thou mayst go.” A letter
from Senor J. Palet-y-Villana on Dr. Monck’s mediumship
occurs next, and several translations from the Revue Spirits,
some American journals, and a copious series of short articles
of general news, complete a very good number for March.
The first article in the April number contains the account
of a ceremony which took place at Madrid, on the occasion of
the crowning of the picture of Allan Kardec. We wish we
dared to transcribe or had poetic gift enough to translate
some of the really beautiful poetry which was read on this
occasion. The translations from the Revue Spirite relating
to the materialisations at Guanajuata, Mexico, are continued.
It seems that the meetings of the Spiritualist Society of
Spain are held monthly. It is also announced that arrange¬
ments had been made with Dr. Monck to visit Spain in the
month of May at latest.
While the Criteria is undoubtedly a high-class scientific
Spiritualist paper, representing the more accurate scientific
and social grades of the movement, the east and south-east
of Spain, in which the liberal sentiment has long been
developed, possess two journals, the Revista de Estudios
PsicolojicoSj a monthly, published at Barcelona, and the
Revelation, also a monthly, published at Alicant, which is
the official organ of the psychological society in that place.
It is clear that the incarnationist school in Spain is strong
enough to maintain three, at least, provincial magazines.
The Barcelona journal is apparently Christian; whilst that
of Alicant contains much religious and political polemic, and,
to judge by the article of Senor Antonio del Espino, is more
anxious for the execution of certain political prisoners than
for the promotion of the scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
It would be a matter of regret if our Spanish Spiritualistic
brethren were to render their cause identifiable with that of
any political party. The horizon of Spain is now overcast,
and a political or religious war should be averted from an
intelligent and honourable race.
That these are not merely chimeras, the recent condemna¬
tion of El Buen Sentido, the Spiritualist newspaper of
Lerida, shows. The April number contains an official adver¬
tisement with the news that the paper was suppressed during
the month of February; and further, condemned to twenty-
one days non-appearance, and all the costs of the trial. The
condemned articles are reprinted in the April number of the
Buen Sentido. We may say that to English readers, who are
perhaps accustomed to much stronger meat, there is nothing
which strikes us as offensive to any person. The liberty of
the press is, however, not yet conceded in Spain. The pas¬
sage, or one of the passages, which seems to have given
ofience was the following, which contains the opinions of
Father Sarda y Salvany respecting the reality of Spiritual
phenomena :—“ With regard to the examination and judg¬
ment of the Christian church, we may count in our favour
Cardinal Gousset, Mons. Sibour, the late archbishop of
Paris, the Theatine P. Ventura, the Franciscan P. Caroli,
the Jesuits P. P. Gury Pianciani, and Pailloux, P. Tizzani,
regular canon {lateraneuse), and the parish priests Guillois
Manfried, Caupert, Suriquet, Monticelli, and Alimonda. All
these are of equal reputation as critical theologians with the
savants above referred to (Cuvier, Berzelius, &c.), all accept,
and the majority demonstrate, by the power of rigorous
reasoning, the absolute and undoubted existence of some of
the phenomena. This harmony should be noted, as it exists
among men whose systems, opinions, and decisions not only
difter among themselves, but on many occasions conflict
with each other.- Further, we wish to say that the illustrious
June 9, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
273
editors of the Civilta Catolica, the first Catholic review in the
world, published at Rome under the inspection of the Pontiff,
and by his express desire, supported by the ablest talent
which the Jesuits can bring to bear, defend the reality of
Spiritist phenomena. Is a more weighty authority thought
necessary?”
After this passage, it cannot be wondered that under the
paternal government of Spain our poor contemporary came
to grief in a country where fanaticism can be easily aroused
against Frenchmen, Italians, or Jesuits. But Spain has
evidently not yet cooled down.
El Espiritismo is a fortnightly which appears at Seville, is
well written, though badly printed, and is also devoted to
the reincarnationist propaganda.
There is, all things considered, much health and vitality
in the Spanish Spiritual press, among which the Criterio
takes the lead, both on account of the superior intellectual
culture of the contributors, the more varied scientific
character of the articles, and the freedom from any political
or religious bias which it presents.
THE ORIGIN AND GROWTH OF THE SPIRITIST SOCIETY
OF PARIS.
BY P. G. LEYMABIE, EDITOR OF THE “ REVUE SPIRITS.”
Before the death of Allan Kardec, it was his desire to
form a society, under the name of the Central General
Spiritist Society. The plan of organisation was sketched in
the Rime Spirite for December, 1868; but before he had
accomplished the work Allan Kardec died, March 30th, 1869.
Madame Kardec, his widow, anxious to carry out her hus¬
band’s design, gathered around her a few devoted friends,
who determined to found a society in accordance with a new
law passed by the Chamber of Deputies. A sum of money
had to be paid down, or property assured to the value of
40,000 francs, and a joint-stock limited liability com¬
pany, consisting of seven persons, was formed and regis¬
tered by a notary in June, 1869. The company was
called, “The Society for the Continuation of the Works
of Allan Kardec,” constituted for ninety-nine years,
with power to extend its capital to the amount of 200,000
francs. The shares are of the value of 500 francs, or twenty
pounds sterling. Madame Kardec brought with her the
right to buy and sell the six elementary books of Allan
Kardec, with their copyrights, as well as that of the Revue
Spirite, established since the year 1858. A manager is
appointed every two years, at the annual general meeting.
A committee of surveillance of three members may, at
pleasure, inspect the account books and correspondence, and
if necessary call a meeting of shareholders on fifteen days’
notice, to settle disputed cases. Three or four members are
also appointed to read the articles in the Revue Spirite before
they are printed, and there is no appeal from their decision.
Every year a general inventory is made, and a report
drawn up, which is sent to every member or shareholder
previous to the general meeting; this report must be verified
and approved by the committee of surveillance.
The objects of the society are to sell, print, and edit all
works on Spiritism, in addition to those of Allan Kardec ;
also to have on sale all Spiritualist writings, even though
they be inimical to the cause; to publish, according to
their means, the works of Allan Kardec in foreign languages,
and to reduce the price of his works, by degrees, as their
resources may allow.
In proof of disinterestedness each shareholder agrees, on
entering the society, to place the transfer of his shares in the
hands of the society, to deal with for its benefit. This arrange¬
ment was made in July, 1873. Besides this, if there is any
dividend at the end of the year it is carried to a reserve fund,
thus showing that the interest of the cause is the only end in
view. Not only do all shareholders renounce their shares,
but also their profits, for the sake of propagating the new
Gospel.
Each member, whatever be the number of his shares, has
but one vote. A new member can only be admitted by a
unanimous vote. Such is our society—a union of men and
women, the ardent friends of truth and progress, whose chief
object in pursuing that truth is that they may make it
known to all the world.
i| Before the late trial, we had, by wise economy and
| straightforward dealing, amassed a sum which we intended
| to devote to taking larger and more convenient premises
| than those in the Rue de Lille. We wished to add to the
j bookselling business a reception room, a hall for lectures
j and conferences, a library and smoking-room, where all the
| Spiritist and Spiritualist journals and books in the world
j might be found, and where friends and visitors from abroad
j might meet, write, read, smoke, and receive information on
j matters connected with Spiritism. This desirable plan,
j which would have been carried out with the help of a few
j devoted friends, has been postponed on account of the
j expenses incurred by the trial. But we still look forward to
j its accomplishment, by the aid of our good spirit friends,
) | when the right time arrives. God helps those who help
| themselves.
You see, my friends, we are working for the future,
j without seeking our own interests. Being myself the most
j active member of the society—a model society, such as does
{ji not exist everywhere—I have been dubbed a swindler, and
i put in prison. It was intended, in my person, to bring dis-
i honour on the society, since the law protects the integrity
j of the society itself for ninety-nine years.
We have not much money left, but we are not in debt,
j and we have an admirable stock of books. If the whole
| were to be sold, they would realise from seventy to eighty
| thousand francs. There are at present twenty shareholders,
j thirteen more than in 1869 : we do not admit everybody, for
i we wish to avoid after-trouble.
Therefore, if all good and devoted men would join us, our
! society would prosper, for it has in it all the elements of
I prosperity. For the present, the trial has swallowed up all
| our reserve, but our sales will, I hope, help us to recuperate.
)i Written from the Prison de la Sante, Paris, May 28th, 1876.
| SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
11 SPIRITS INTERFERING WITH A COURT OF LAW.
; The Cape Town Times of May 4th, received by last mail, says:—
jl “ The proceedings of the Supreme Court yesterday were enlivened by a
i scene manifesting almost painfully a modern phase of human credulity
I and human imposture. When the jury were about delivering their ver-
i diet in a certain case, the foreman having actually declared that they
I were agreed in a verdict of guilty, a juror of solemn mien and with
[ I solemn voice protested that he was conscientiously debarred from giving
| such a verdict on oath; that he was a Spiritualist; and that, while he
i was sitting in the box, he had received a message from heaven in
i declaration of the prisoner’s innocence. The Chief Justice, taken aback
j by this novel method of assisting in the administration of the law,
! reminded the inspired person (or enerffumen, as some will think) that in
| trying a prisoner the duty of a juryman is to weigh the sworn evidence,
| disregarding any testimony from a spiritual world which does not admit
L of being given on oath. It was vain, however, to remonstrate. The
i man asserted that he was deaf while the “ power ” was upon him, so
| i that, even if he could stoop to compare the word of living man with the
! word of disembodied spirit, it was impossible to do so, the spirits taking
j effectual precautions against any such profane confusion. The result
j was, that another jury had to be empannelled and the evidence was all
j taken afresh. It is an ill wind that blows nobody good, and, although
j all the non-spiritualist members of the first jury had agreed in a verdict
I'M of guilty against the prisoner, the second jury, either influenced by some
spiritual influence hanging about the box, or, which is perhaps more
likely, being more exigent in the matter of evidence, acquitted him with
but little hesitation. We do not object to this acquittal. The man has
i escaped by the skin of his teeth, and if he does not believe in Spiritualism
henceforth he must be a very infidel; but there is always a feehng of
) satisfaction in the human breast when a man gets out of a scrape, and
we sympathise accordingly with the second verdict. But the question
arises, is this kind of thing to be repeated, and must we hereafter
: \ j witness in our courts of justice more grotesque instances of this mud-
ill dling up of earth and heaven ? We are all aware that Spiritualism has
jjj for some time past been practised in Cape Town on a small scale. We
| | have not heard of any of the more startling manifestations; there has
||| not yet been reported any materialisation of a Katie King, nor have we
IIH heard of a medium floating out of a window to the melody of sackbut
and psaltery, or, it may be, only of the humble banjo. But it would
appear from the incident above mentioned, that the Spiritualist doc¬
trines are being propagated in this city, and in such a form that it
concerns the public interest to keep an eye on their practical develop¬
ment. Up to a certain point there can be little doubt that the phe-
j nomena included in the lower range of so-called Spiritualism are facts
which have to be explained, although we have little doubt that the
utmost involved in their explanation would be an extension of a natural
] law whose operation is already recognised.’’
The following are the details of the case itself: —
“ Thomas Hawberry pleaded not guilty to assaulting James Davidson,
labourer, at Cape Town, on 25th March, and taking from him a snuff¬
box, a purse, a knife, and 17s. 8d. in money.
2f4 THfe SPltllTtALIST. June 9, 1S76.
“ The evidence of Davidson was to the effect that he and prisoner had ||
been drinking together when the alleged assault and robbery took j)
place. , . ! (
“ Mr. Inglesby, for whom the two men worked, gave prisoner a good j)
character, but described Davidson as inclined to be quarrelsome. j)
“The jury having considered their verdict without leaving the box, j(
the foreman said that they were agreed on the verdict of guilty. Mr. I)
Youngman, however, one of the number, exclaimed that he declined to i)
give a verdict on oath: he was a Spiritualist, and while sitting there he I si
had received a revelation from heaven that the man was innocent. i;|
“ His lordship said that in giving his verdict he must dismiss from j (j
Ins mind any communications from heaven, and attend only to the jf!
evidence. The spirits were not on oath and the witnesses were. Mr. i)j
Youngman said that when the power was upon him he was deaf and m
had not heard the evidence. • j v
“ His lordship requested the jury to retire and see whether they could I) j
agree, but after they had been absent a few minutes (the Attorney- R:
General referring to the 51st rule of Court) they were sent for, and jj j
asked whether there was any chance of their agreeing. Mr. Youngman j)j
repeated his assertion of the prisoner’s innocence, and of his own deaf- j (j
ness, while the spirits were with him, to any communication except from |y|
heaven. He said it came down upon him like a tremor. The jury i)]
were then discharged, and a fresh jury being impannelled, the evidence Rj
was taken over again, his lordship first remarking that if Spiritualism ijj
were to spread widely, it would embarrass the administration of |)|
justice. u
“ It appeared from the evidence of Davidson, given the second time, 1)1
that he had been three or four hours with the prisoner in the canteen, Ri
during which time he said he had spent only ninepence, a statement i(i
which the prisoner rightly resented as incredible.
“The prisoner was found not guilty. So the spirits had their own Rj
way after all.’, hj
WAX MOULDS OF SPIRIT HANDS UNDER TEST j
CONDITIONS. j j
Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, U.S., writes “ I send you, in Rj
advance of its publication in this country, the enclosed report of two j)j
test seances, at which the paraffin mould of a hand, supposed to be \l\
materialised by spirit power, was produced. Having been present at j)j
the seances referred to, I can vouch for the scrupulous accuracy of the I) I
statements.’’ Endeavours have been made in America to obtain wax j(j
moulds of temporarily materialised spirit hands, in a box so fastened !)l
that the medium could have no access to its interior. The Banner j(j
of Light says that, “anxious for a test that should meet still more j)j
thoroughly the demands of science, Dr. Gardner had a box made for ijj
the purpose. This box, rectangular in shape, is thirty inches long, jyj
thirty deep, and twenty-four wide. The four posts of the frame-work m
are of wood, as are the bottom and the folding cover; and the part jM
between the cover and the wire-work is of wood, eight and a half i)i
inches in height, and pierced with holes about an inch apart, and jj;
originally three-quarters of an inch in diameter, but subsequently ijj
reduced, by an interior lining, to one-quarter of an inch. The wire j'vj
carried round the box is in a single piece, the two ends coming together j)i
on one of the corner posts, and at the point of contact being covered i j i
with a strip of wood firmly nailed to the post. The cover is in two i j i
parts, opening from the centre outward; one fold of the cover may be i) j
secured by two bolts that run into the wood-work on each side. The j j j
other fold was at first secured by a single lever lock. The wire-work is j u
a strong, thick, three-eighth mesh. After several successful expert- j)j
ments, at which we were not present, attention was called to certain I j j
defects in the box, and it was improved and repaired so as to obviate I) I
all objections. Two locks, one at each side, made the cover when shut, j j
bolted, and locked, tight and secure. The holes in the wood-work were I j j
reduced as already described, and no flaw was left unremedied. We nj
have been thus particular in our description of the box, because we jjj
regard it as the instrument of a test wholly unaffected by any question ijj
as to the medium’s good faith in the case.” ijj
The following are the details of the experiment Monday, May 1st, j j
1876, presentinthe basement of Mr. Hardy’s house, No. 4, Concord-square, j j j
were Col. Frederick A. Pope, Boston, John Wetherbee, J. S. Draper, jjj
Epes Sargent, Mrs. Dora Brigham, and Mr. and Mrs. Hardy. The box j j
was thoroughly examined. Col. Pope, an expert in all carpentering jjj
work, turned the box upside down, and tested it on all sides, inside and j j i
out, the.other gentlemen looking on, and afterwards examining it them- jjj
selves. Particular care was taken to see how far by working with an jjj
iron instrument the wire interstice could be enlarged and then replaced, jjj
so as to admit of the passage of anything more than half an inch in jjj
diameter. This was found impracticable under the conditions; while an jjj
enlargement for the admission of a hand could not have been made j j
without forcibly severing or untwisting the wires in a way that could not j j
fail of detection. j{|
Every one being satisfied as to the security of the box, Mr. Wetherbee jjj
lifted a pail of clear, cold water, which after being examined under- Rj
neath and on all sides was placed in the box. Col. Pope lifted the pail j j j
of hot water with a top layer of paraffin (which we tested by touch, j j j
stirred about, and found to be all in a melted and fluid state), and placed j j
it, after examination, in the box. The covers were then closed, bolted, j j
and locked; and, to make security doubly secure (though the precaution j j
was needless, since we could all the time see the medium), seals were j j
put on both keyholes, also across the seam between the shut covers, and jjj
also across the lines of separation at the sides. As the room was light ijj
we could all now see, and did see, through the wire of the box, that j j j
except the pails and their contents, there was nothing else inside of it. ijj
In order to produce a dark chamber for the operating force, a cloth W
was now thrown over the box, and the light of the room was subdued,
but not so much that we could not distinguish the time of day by our
watches, and see one another’s face and movements, including those of
the medium. Mrs. Hardy took a seat in front of the circle, and just
behind the box at one of its narrow sides. Mr. Hardy kept aloof all the
while, and took a seat in the rear of all the rest.
No checks or restrictions were put upon the sitters. There was no
singing, no noise, though conversation in a low tone was going on much
of the time. Mrs. Hardy was in her natural state, easy and unpreoccu¬
pied. The harmony of the circle was perfect, and all eyes were on the
medium. Occasionally a question would be put to the operating force,
and it would be answered by raps. At length, after a lapse of perhaps
forty minutes, a quick succession of jubilant raps announced that a
result had been obtained. All rose from their seats, we took off the
cloth, looked in through the wires, and there, floating in the pail of
water, was a full-sized, perfect mould of a large hand. We looked at the
seals: not one had been disturbed. We again carefully tested all the
sides of the box: wood and wire were perfect; all parts were unim¬
paired, unchanged. Then, removing the seals from the keyholes, we
unlocked and unbolted the cover, lifted the pail, and took out the mould.
We saw, and still see, no escape from the conviction that the mould had
been formed and placed there by some power capable of materialising
the members of an organism wholly distinct from the physique of the
medium.
Thursday, May 4th, a second sitting was had, at which, in addition to
the persons already named, Mr. J. W. Day, of The Banner of Light,
and Mr. J. F. Alderman were present. The conditions were the same,
and the success was, if possible, greater than at the sitting of May 1st,
inasmuch as the mould was larger and the fingers more spread. The
same precautions were taken both before and after the sitting; the box
was twice thoroughly overhauled and examined by the six gentlemen of
the party. A doubt having been raised as to the hinges, a screw-driver
was obtained and the screws tested and tightened. Besides the mould in
the pail of water, a part of another one was found on the floor of the box.
Our conclusions are :—
1. That the mould of a full-sized, perfect hand was produced in a
closed box by some unknown power exercising intelligence and manual
activity.
2. That the conditions of the experiment were independent of all
reliance on the character and good faith of the medium, though the
genuineness of her mediumship has been fully vindicated by the result.
3. That these conditions were so simple and so stringent as to com¬
pletely exclude all opportunities for fraud and all contrivances for illusion,
so that our realisation of the conclusiveness of the test is perfect.
4. That the fact, long known to investigators, that evanescent, ma¬
terialised hands, guided by intelligence and projected from an invisible
organism, can be made visible and tangible, receives confirmation from
this duplicated test.
5. That the experiment of the mould, coupled with that of the so-
called spirit photograph, gives objective proof of the operation of an
intelligent force outside of any visible organism, and offers a fair basis
for scientific investigation.
6. That the inquiry, “How was that mould produced within that
box ? ’’ leads to considerations that must have a most important bearing
on the philosophy of the future, as well as on problems of psychology
and physiology, and opens new views of the latent powers and high
destiny of man.
J. F. Alderman, 46, Congress-street, Boston;
Mrs. Dora Brigham, 3, James-street, Franklin-sq.;
Col. Frederick A. Pope, 69, Montgomery-street;
John W. Day, 9, Montgomery-place;
John Wetherbee, 48, Congress-street
Epes Sargent, 67, Moreland-street;
J. S. Draper, Wayland, Mass.
Boston, May 24th, 1876.
Mr. Maskelyne Writes -a Book.—A shilling book has just been
issued by Mr. J. N. Maskelyne, of the Egyptian Hall, entitled Modern
Spiritualism, in which he has raked together all the disagreeable things
in connection with a great movement which have cropped up for many
years past, and has incorporated them in a most amusing volume. The
book is not idly put together, and gives evidence that he has for years
been making a somewhat close study of the dark side of Spiritualism,
whilst turning a blind eye to all its better aspects. It will do no harm
to the movement, for the simple reason that Spiritualism is true; and
in writing about it at some length, he has given his readers too much
information about it not to cause them to inquire for something beyond.
On the cover is a coloured picture of a stout lady, with a pen in her
hand, being carried by spirits over the spires and roofs of a great city,
which flight Mr. Maskelyne has entitled “ A Moonlight Transit of
Venus.”
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse’s late visit to Jersey
has been favourably commented upon by the press of that island—the
Jersey Times, Express, and Independent. On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered a trance address at Doughty-hall on the “Two Religions,” and to¬
morrow he leaves London for his regular summer tour in the midland,
northern counties, and Scotland. Mrs. Morse will accompany him. On
Sunday he will be present at the District Conference in Newcastle-on-
Tyne, to be held in Weir’s Court, Newgate-street, morning at 10.30,
afternoon at 2.30, public tea at 4.30, and will deliver a trance address in
the evening at 7 p.m. His other engagements are Halifax, June 25tb,
Newcastle, July 2nd, Rochdale, July 9th, Glasgow, July 10th, Halifax,
July 23rd, Manchester, July 30th. Bishop Auckland, Darlington, and
Saltburn-by-the-Sea to follow. Societies desirous of securing Mr.
Morse’s services are requested to write to him at Warwick Cottage, Old
Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
June 9, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
275
THEOLOGY VERSUS SCIENCE. £|j
COPT OF THE ORIGINAL RECORD OF GALILEO’S RECANTATION. i )i
Thursday, Feb. 25, 1616. The Most Illustrious Lord jj!
Cardinal Mellinus gave notice to the Rev. Fathers the ||
Accessor and Commissary of the Holy Office that on the |jj
censure passed upon the propositions of Galileo—in parti- jjj
cular that the sun is the centre of the universe and locally |)|
motionless, and that the earth moves even with a daily j jj
motion—being reported, His Holiness ordered that the Most Hi
Illustrious Lord Cardinal Bellarmine should summon to his jjj
presence the said Galileo and admonish him to abandon the j j
said opinion, and that if he should refuse to obey, the Father j j
Commissary, in the presence of a notary and witnesses, j j
should deliver to him a precept entirely to abstain from j j
teaching or defending such doctrine and opinion, or from j I
treating of the same; but that if he did not acquiesce he was j j
to be imprisoned. j j
Friday, Feb. 26 of same year. In the palace habitually j j
occupied by the Most Illustrious Lord Cardinal Bellarmine j jj
and in the apartments of the above-named Most Illustrious j j
Lord, the above-named Galileo having been summoned and j jj
himself being in the presence of the above-named Most jjj
Illustrious Lord, and also in the presence of the very Rev. j j
brother Michael Angelo Segnitius of Lodi, of the Dominican jjj
order, Commissary General of the Holy Office, the same Most I j
Illustrious Lord Cardinal admonished the above-named ijj
Galileo concerning the error of the above-named opinion and Ijj
to abandon it, and thereupon and forthwith in the presence j
of myself and witnesses and the same Most Illustrious Lord j
Cardinal being still present, the above-named Father Com- j
missary enjoined upon and ordered the aforesaid Galileo, he jj
being still in the same place and under formal presentment, in j
the name of our Most Holy Lord The Pope, and of the whole j j
congregation of the Holy Office, entirely to abandon the I
above-named opinion that the sun is the centre of the uni- jj
verse, and motionless, and that the earth moves, and in j
future not to hold, teach, or defend it in any manner what- j
ever, by word of mouth or in writing, failing which pro- jj
ceedings would be taken against him in the Holy Office; jj
to which precept the same Galileo submitted, and promised j
obedience. Done at Rome as above, there being present at j
the same place Badinus Nores of Nicosia in the kingdom of j
Cyprus, and Augustinus Mongardus of a place in the abbacy jl
of Rotts in the diocese of Montepulciano, servants of the Ij
said Most Illustrious Lord Cardinal as witnesses.
The Council meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists
next Tuesday, will be a very important one; at it, among other business,
all the officers and committees for the year will have to be elected.
There should he a good attendance.
Liverpool Borough Sessions.—The business of these sessions was
continued on Saturday in St. George’s-hall, Mr. J. B. Aspinall, Q.C.,
the Recorder, presiding in the first court, and Mr. Hosack in the second
court. James Coates, 82, Customs officer, who had been on bail, was
indicted for having on the 16th of April unlawfully and maliciously
wounded Walter Isaac, healing medium. Mr. Samuell prosecuted, and
Dr. O’Feeley defended the prisoner. It appeared from the evidence for
the prosecution that on Sunday, the 16th of April last, the prosecutor,
who had formerly lodged in the prisoner’s house, met the prisoner and
his wife outside the Assembly-room, Islington, and he went up and
spoke to them. The prisoner (who was under the influence of drink),
his wife, the prosecutor, and some others, proceeded up Brunswick-road,
and when they got to the top of the road the prisoner sat down upon a
drinking trough near the Necropolis. The prosecutor and Mrs. Coates
urged him to get up and go home, but failing to persuade him to do so,
his wife went away, leaving Isaac with him. Subsequently he got up
and walked towards Walker-street with the prosecutor, and whilst going
there the prisoner turned round and struck him a blow on the back
with something which the prosecution contended was a knife. A
struggle then ensued between them, during which they fell to the
ground, the prisoner being under the prosecutor. When on the ground
Isaac felt a knife in the hand of the prisoner, and after he got up he
found that he had been stabbed in the hack and thigh. The wounds
were not of a serious nature. The defence set up was that ill-will
existed on the part of the prosecutor towards the prisoner, that on the
occasion referred to they quarrelled, when the prosecutor struck the
prisoner with a stick, knocked him down, and dashed his head against
the pavement. Dr. O’Feeley contended that the prisoner used the
knife in self-defence, and that he was justified in doing so, owing to the
extreme violence used by the prosecutor. The jury found the prisoner
guilty, but strongly recommended him to mercy, thinking that he had
received considerable provocation, He was sentenced to six months’
imprisonment.
The circulation of The Spiritualist is rising fast, as usual during
every London season; whilst flourishing at home, it is also assuming
a markedly international character.
The members of the Newcastle Spiritual Society wish members of
societies in Northumberland and Durham to attend, or to send delegates,
to the Conference of Spiritualists to be held at Weir’s Court, Newgate-
street, Newcastle, next Sunday morning, afternoon, and evening.
Mr. Lambelle, of South Shields, gave an address in the trance con¬
dition on Sunday evening last, at the Freemasons’ Old Hall, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, at the close of which questions were invited from the audience,
and answered in a satisfactory manner. The attendance was rather
large, and the listeners seemed to be much pleased. Mr. Robertson, of
Dunston, occupied the chair, and Mr. Mould conducted the service.
A New Undertaking.—Mrs. A. C. Burke, an intimate friend of Mrs.
Cora L. Y. Tappan, and a lady who, both in public and private, has
testified to the truth of Spiritualism for many years, has taken a large
house at 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, London, and opened it
as a kind of private hotel, or boarding house, or “ home ” for Spirit¬
ualists. The idea is a good one, and meets a public want, in proof
whereof at the present time she has more applications for accommoda¬
tion than she can comply with, partly because the whole of the large
establishment is not fully furnished. She is further making prepara¬
tions to accommodate those who do not temporarily take rooms in the
establishment, with luncheons and dinners. This undertaking has been
partly floated by some little public assistance. After some examination
we have discovered that the establishment is thoroughly well managed,
and likely before long to be self-supporting, so the readers of this
journal are recommended to help her in the work, either by donations,
or by loans on sufficient security. These latter suggestions are made
without her knowledge, and chiefly because we think that the establish¬
ment meets a public want, and is likely to be self-supporting.'
Library of the National Association of Spiritualists. — The
Library at 88, Great Russell-street, has lately received many valuable
additions. Hare’s Spirit Manifestations, and several numbers of the
Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, presented by Mr. B. Coleman. The
British Spiritual Telegraph, 2 vols., 1857 and 1858; Wilkinson’s
Spirit Drawings; Mrs. Crowe’s Spiritualism; Harris’s Arcana of
Christianity, 2 vols.; Lyric of the Morning Land, and Starry Heavens ;
J. Jones’s Man, Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Defoe’s-History
of the Deoil; The Dawn, vols. I. and II.; Seeress of Prevorst; A. E.
Newton’s Modern Revelations ; several tracts by Swedenborg ; Astonish¬
ing Transactions at Stockwell; W. White’s An Evening with Mr. Home
Fifteen Years Ago; and various pamphlets by Crookes, Coleman,
Giildenstubbe, and Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, by whom the whole of the
above-named works, and some others, not named, have been presented.
Mr. Geo. King has also given The Light of the World, by A. S.
Wilkins; Mr. D. H. Wilson, Du Spiritisme, by M. Marion, President
of the Court of Appeal at Algiers; the Viscount of Torres-Solanot,
Madrid, has presented two Spanish books, Controversia Espiritista, and
Preliminares al Estudio del Espiritisme; and M. Aksakof, of St.
Petersburg, has sent the German translation of R. D. Owen’s Debatable
Land, in 2 vols. All the above books have been added to the per¬
manent library, and cannot be removed from the premises, but there
is also a lending library for the use of members.
Opposition to the Leigh Spiritualists.—On Sunday afternoon a lec¬
ture was given in the Market-place, “ explaining the teachings of
Spiritualism,’’ by Mr. Ashurst, of Wigan. The lecture did not attract
a very large audience, and the small congregation included many of
the local Spiritualists. The lecturer charged Spiritualism with being
the work of evil spirits, and he said that Spiritualists were immoral,
and denied the resurrection of Christ; it was impossible for a Christian,
to be a Spiritualist, or for a Spiritualist to be a Christian. After a
lecture, which was listened to quietly, a lengthy conversation followed,,
which was continued till after six o’clock, when the lecturers had to
leave to catch their train. The step of the obelisk was afterwards occu¬
pied by some “ Christian Spiritualists ” from Manchester, who had
discussed with Mr. Ashurst in the afternoon. The proceedings were
far from entertaining. A correspondent contributes the following:—
“ Thinking that perhaps your reporter may not have been present on
Sunday last at the gathering in our Market-place, or, if present, that
he had not sufficient of the patience for which the prophet Job was so
celebrated, I venture to send you a brief sketch of the proceedings as
they appeared to me. Having been made aware by an advertisement in
your paper of the Anti-Spiritualistic meeting to be held, I thought I
might as well stroll that way, having nothing particular to do, and hear
what Anti-Spiritualists had to say against Spiritualism. Arriving at
the obelisk punctually at three, I was just in time to receive numerous
tracts and publications which the Spiritualists, by way of commencing
operations, were distributing amongst those assembled. When this
skirmishing had ceased, the good people of Wigan, or, rather, two of
them, mounted the step of the obelisk, and a solemn-looking individual
having given out a hymn, begged permission of the ladies and gentlemen
present to introduce the lecturer, a Mr. Ashurst, of Wigan. Having
delivered himself, the speaker, with a profound bow, made way for the
Mr. Ashurst, who commenced to address those assembled by reading,
first of all, seven charges which he preferred against Spiritualists in
general. In one thing only did he console Spiritualists—by coolly
assuring them that they would all be burnt up, but that God was very
merciful. He would have the fire as hot as possible, so that it will
soon be over with them, and they will know no more! If you, Mr.
Editor, had only seen the smile which lit up the features of the elect at
the prospect of seeing the Spiritualists roasted, I’m sure you would
have laughed as I did. The afternoon and a good part of the evening
having been wasted in senseless twaddle, I came away with a very poor
opinion of Christian brethren, and a decided sympathy for the objects of
their special attention—the Leigh Spiritualists.”—Leigh Chronicle,
276 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 9, 1876.
€om8ponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
BARON HOLMFELD ON THE REINCARNATION DOCTRINE.
Sir,—The following is an extract from my answer to a letter from the
Russian Councillor of State, A. Aksakof:—
“ I am sorry your efforts to prepare the soil of science in your
metropolis for the reception of spiritual germs were frustrated. Without
genuine mediums the labour is in vain, and we may apply the words of
Napoleon, “N'est pas athee qiti veut” to mediums who only come when
duly called. I am far from hurt by your revoking your consent to
admit into Psychic Studies my articles against the doctrine of reincar¬
nation. You know best what direction to give to your monthly. I fully
respect the supreme law of the Creator, who wills that everybody
manages the talent confided to his care in his own way. Without
encroaching on the right of others, I feel justified in criticising opinions
which I think contrary to the final views and ends of the Lord of Life,
and thus also to combat the adulteration of Spiritualism. I may thus
deplore a respected co-operator’s doings in throwing impediments in my
way; but I do not contest your right to do so, as far as the management
of your own affairs is concerned, and I rejoice in knowing that there is
complete harmony between us as to the appreciation of the facts, and
the essential bearing of the spiritual movement, viz., to let the facts
speak for themselves. The principle of investigating and establishing
the authenticity of the facts being common to both of us, we ought ap¬
parently also to join in discarding pernicious speculations. To draw
simple, direct conclusions from the facts is certainly our primary duty,
and we acknowledge plainly that the facts have been benevolently given
to mankind in order to rekindle the faith in man’s immortality, and in
the reality of a spiritual world.
“ It is no doctrinal speculation, but a mere matter of fact. question,
whether in a period of prevailing materialism and exclusive faith in
nature, such palpable evidences of transcendental action from a spiritual
sphere were needed and providentially given. I can scarcely conceive
that you dissent from me when I try to eliminate from genuine Spirit¬
ualism, which has the facts for its root, the preposterous fictions of an
imaginative brain, the alluring doctrines of American sensualism, and
the vain phantasmagoria of French Spiritists. I agree with you that
accidental circumstances, and, as in this case, your being afraid of
hurting persons or parties, may demand circumspection, and check open
expression of your opinions. I understand pretty well your prudence
in yielding to such political and social considerations, and I feel per¬
suaded that in heart and mind you have the moral courage of your
better opinions, and that in cases of emergency you will stick to them,
even if votaries should feel hurt by them. Allow me, nevertheless, to
observe that your prudence in not hurting the Spiritists, as to their
fallacious doctrine of reincarnation, is of no use, as the Spiritists of
Paris are open enemies of your Psychic Studies, and rejoice in the
prospect of its downfall. I would advise the editor to give a bold start
to the review. Right-through-politics would give it a better run than it
has now. Your assertion, that the journal abstains from speculations,
holds good only as far as it has abstained from combating Spiritism or
reincarnation. It abounds in speculative articles of other kinds. You
should easily perceive that the theory of reincarnation is in direct op¬
position to the ‘natural’ platform, and, according to the evidence, it is
sheer nonsense that a father should engender another child than his own.
As you can scarcely object to the application of moral law on the natural
platform, you are sure to declare the incompatibility of reincarnation
with your principles. The prospect of being able to transmit moral
responsibility to another unknown future being, will unavoidably weaken,
and finally do away with, conscientious ideas of personal responsibility,
particularly when motives of interest or of passion upset the mind.
After due examination, you should be as eager as I am to oppose the
propagation of such a foul doctrine, which, moreover, utterly destroys
the faith in personal immortality, and thus takes away the beneficial
consequences of the facts of Spiritualism. In teaching continuous
returns into infantile states, in which the conscious feeling of previous
individuality and personality is blotted out, the poor Spiritists are
brought back to the corruption which once perverted Brahmanism, and
made the reform of Buddha abortive, the relics of which corruption
still prevail in the abominable superstitions of the African tribes.
“ The consequence is that the manifestations among Spiritists in
general are reduced to insignificant communications from fallacious
spirits, whose low and unprogressed state is veiled by their personating
others reputed to be of a high order. You will scarcely disagree with
me in thinking that the great benefits which ought to be, and may be,
derived from genuine Spiritualism, ought not to be spoiled. I am per¬
suaded that you finally will combat these vain phantasmagoria quite as
zealously as I do, seeing that the enemies of true intelligence aim by
such perversion at the destruction of true Spiritualism itself.
Pinneberg, Holstein. “ Dirckinck-Holmfeld.”
The church of the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A., Westmoreland-street,
Cavendish-square, near the Portland-road Railway Station of the Metro¬
politan Railway, is deservedly largely attended by Spiritualists every i
Sunday.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s Debatable Land has just appeared in the j
German language (Das Streitige Land), translated by Mr. G. C. Wittig,
and is the thirteenth work of the series, Bibliothek des Spiritualismus 1
fur Deutschland, published under the auspices of the Hon. Alexandre [
Aksakof.
DEVIL AND GHOST WORSHIP IN WESTERN INDIA.
The following discussion on the paper on the above
subject, read by Mr. J. M. Walhouse, F.R.A.S., before the
Anthropological Institute, is quoted from the Journal of that
society:—
DEMONOLOGY AMONG THE HILL TRIBES.
Major Godwin Austen said:—“Mr. Walhouse’s paper is of much
interest; it shows how very similar are the forms of demon-worship
among the hill-tribes of India. Much that we have heard this evening
is common to the tribes of the N.E. frontier, viz., the G&ros, Khasis,
Ndg&s, and Duflas. Their demons, or spirits, are innumerable ; every
wood, every stream, is the haunt of one, the great point of difference
being that, in the N.E. frontier, they are never represented by idols or
figures of any kind, nor are temples erected, as it appears is the case
in the south-western side of the Indian Peninsula, where Hindu in¬
fluences have acted on the older forms of religion. The only people
who are not demon-worshippers are those of Bhutan, who Mr. Wal¬
house has referred to, and seemed to think their name was associated
and derived from ghost-worship. In this I do not agree with him.
The Bhutas are Bhuddists, and the term ‘ Bhut,’ or ‘ Bhot,’ is applied
even to the people of Ladak, and all the intermediate Thibetan people,
also Bhuddists, so that I think the word is quite as likely derived
from the Hindustani ‘ Bhudistan,’ the country of Bhudha or of the
Bhuts.”
SIN-EATING.
Mr. Moggridge said :—“ Mention was made of superstitious ob¬
servances in our own island. I may, therefore, be permitted to bring
to your notice a curious custom that not long since was still extant in
South Wales and some of the adjoining counties, that of the sin-eater.
More than two centuries ago a well known writer, Aubrey de Gentil6-
sisme, gives a full account of this observance in Herefordshire, where
he was fortunate enough to ‘ interview ’ the sin-eater himself. Among
the mountains of South Wales I find a similar ceremony prevailing
down to almost our own times. When a person died, the sin-eater of
the district was called in. On his arrival he received a plate, on which
he poured some salt. Upon the salt he placed a piece of bread, laid
the plate on the chest of the defunct, muttered words of charmed
power while bending over the corpse, then eat the bread, whereby he eat
up and appropriated to himself all the sins of the deceased, received
two shillings and sixpence for his services, and quickly retired from the
pitying gaze of those present, who regarded him as one utterly and
irremediably lost.”
Mr. Jeremiah said :—“I was very much interested in the paper just
read. With reference to the alleged custom of sin-eating in Wales’
mentioned by Mr. Moggridge, I would remark that the discussion raised
by the Rev. D. Silvan Evans in the Academy (November 5, 1875) ap¬
pears to have gone adrift for want of the Welsh word for sin-eater.
The discussion arose, as all must be aware, from a statement made by
a writer in Blackwood's Magazine for last month, in an article on the
‘ Legend and Folk-lore of North Wales,’ where he says, in reference to
a funeral custom, that the ‘ Scapegoat ... is currently called a “ sin-
eater.” ’ Dr. Evans demanded the Welsh equivalent, which the author
of that article could not give, in consequence of, he says, ‘ my ignorance
of Welsh.’ (Academy, November 27, p. 555.) Had he referred to
Bingley’s North Wales, vol. ii. p. 278, he would have seen a way out
of his difficulty, and a clear answer to the query put by Dr. Evans;
and Mr. Moggridge will also see, I think, that the custom was
not known as sin-eating, although the original meaning may have been
of that nature. Bingley says, ‘ It is usual in several parts of North
Wales for the nearest female relation to the deceased, be she widow,
mother, sister, or daughter, to pay some poor person of the same sex,
and nearly the same age with the deceased, for procuring slips of yew,
box, and other evergreens, to strew over and ornament the grave for
some weeks after interment, and in some instances for weeding and
adorning it on the eves of Easter, Whitsuntide, and the other great
festivals for a year or two afterwards. This gift is called Diodlys, and
it is made on a plate at the door of the house, where, at the same time,
the body is standing on a bier. It had its name from a custom, which
is now discontinued (1804), of the female relative giving to a person a
piece of cheese with the money stuck in it, some white bread, and
afterwards a cup of ale. When this previous ceremony is over, the
clergyman, or, in his absence, the parish clerk, repeats the Lord’s
Prayer, after which they proceed with the body to the church.’ It ap¬
pears, then, that the custom means simply a ‘ gift of ale or beer,’ and
not sin-eating. Pennant’s (in his Tours in Wales, vol. iii. p. 159,
edition 1810) account is slightly different. He says :—‘Previous to a
funeral it was customary, when the corpse was brought out of the
house and laid upon the bier, for the next-of-kin, be it widow, mother,
sister, or daughter—for it must be a female—to give, over the coffin,
a quantity of white loaves in a great dish, and sometimes a cheese with
a piece of money stuck in it, to certain poor persons. After that they
presented, in the same manner, a cup of drink, and required the person
to drink a little of it immediately. When that was done they kneeled
down, and the minister, if present, said the Lord’s Prayer, after which
they proceeded with the corpse, and at every crossway between the
house and the church they laid down the bier and knelt, and again re¬
peated the Lord’s Prayer, and did the same when they first entered the
churchyard.’ This custom, and that of the alleged sin-eating, are con¬
clusively one and the same, viz., that of Diodlys.”
Mr. Edkms and the President also made a few remarks.
Owing to the influx of much interesting Spiritualistic news this week from
friends in foreign countries, the publication of some home news and of many
letters is postponed.
JimE 9, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. • _
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office lias been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with eacli
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Od.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years Without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. - The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.8. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge qf the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically Useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes-
. sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life: The preface says‘‘Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. Cd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives ah account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit. Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Superaaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and /Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
- specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous, engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniJfi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or • some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that, poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
■ S. Olcott.- Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d. t
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER . MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conaht. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols, By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6».
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
“ “ ' „ II.
,, HI.
,, IV. „ .
..V „ •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . .
s d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 «
7 6
6 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 O
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb SpimiUALisT Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 o
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . , . 16 •
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7'6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith.
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . .' • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pain, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. .. • . . . > . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale /.i . . . . ' . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE-
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The lata
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful (tract for Inquirers, is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Od.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Ad<i' bus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: "There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CUBE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
HaUock. 2s.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
if
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literatuve of Spirit-
nalism, obtainable of • W. H. Harrison,1 Spritiialist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of . mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price .7s. 6d., cloth. ■ .
POEMS FROM THE .INNER LIFE, By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth.edition. ■ This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly'gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume'contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence! Several of
them are attributed to the spirit Of Edgar A. Poe. They have
♦he rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispburtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences ip favour of spirit intercourse and of, its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby And Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
. Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and. Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning, the
future, its rewards and punishments, &u., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no' blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
os. Gd. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS: A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This irochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of :Professor Molecule,
P R S.. X.Y.Z.. B.I.G.A.S.8.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena.1 It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, G^<l. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obsex--
vations, also illustrative instances. of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offei’ed for competition to Dr.
• Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an;mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for. persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
Prom the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if oi’dered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist
THE RELIGIO - PHILOSOPHICAL
JOORNAL is a large eight-page weebly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualism. Established in 18G6.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
June 9, 1876.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
' SPIRITUALISM.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
The 'Second -‘Volume - of The Identity ■ of ~ Primitive
Christianity and Modern 'Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
" V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
Vll.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
■Kin,—The Spirit-World.
XIV.—Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free Us. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. ' Isaac B.
Rich, business managerLuther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of. able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper,'containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; conti’ibutions by the most talented
writers in the world,1 &c., Ac! Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper, Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of . the , paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual-journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence. • • •'
< Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is noV in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-sireet,
London, W.C.
Price 5s. ’
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
. Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.’’—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amountof corroboi’a-
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—Hock.
Sy Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
.RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric.. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square. S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OB, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c.: By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4* G, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Price Is. Ojd., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without, tbe inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on tbe principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principa 1
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A. C; Burke,
COMMITTEE
The Counteas of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Chafles lsham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Hovyitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A , 60, Hollaud-street, Kensington^
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hei’eford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lausdowne-road, N otting-hill, W
S. Ohinnery, Esq.,T42, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Eumore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Wloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wasou’s-buildings. Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winehester-street-
buildings, E.C. ,
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, Geofge-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park. •
Andrew Glendinniug, Esq., 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. William*, Esq., Clarence Club, Water loo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
See., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been already subscribed:—
A Friend    .' 
Charles Blackburn, Esq   
A. V. H 
Martin R. Smith, Esq.    
Alexander Calder, Esq 
William Tebb, Esq.     
A, L. Elder, Esq  
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq     
O. v. Hoffmann       
. James Wason, Esq   
Friends at St. Petersburg    
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq.
Thomas Grant, Esq.  I   
A -Friend    
Mrs. St. Claire ;   
W. J. Williams, Esq 
Two Friends and Neighbours    
W. C. Oopperth waite, Esq     
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq   
Alexander Tod,- Esq  
J. Ridley, Esq •••    
Mrs. Hamilton  
Mrs. Daun       
T. J. Allman, Esq...,,'....V..    
Mrs. Hennings    
Mrs. Berry     
J. Y. Vernon, Esq 
W. H. Harrison, Esq   
C. Townsend Hook, Esq.. .........
William Howitt, Esq   
Enmore Jones, Esq  
A. A. Watts, Esq   
Mrs. Watts  
Walter Weldon, Esq   
lP. G 
M. G. S   
C. F. Valley, Esq 
J. H. D 
F. Griffin, Esq  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    
J. S. Law, Esq     
Friend, per Mrs. Vtmon   
G. de Liagre     
C. Pegrson, Esq   
Miss Clark    
S. O. Hall, Esq.      
John Marshall, Esq.    
C. Stephens, Esq  
Dr. R. Baikie     
F   
Rev. W. Whitear   
Miss Whitear    
Thomas Scott, Esq     
D. G.-Fitzgerald, Esq    
Miss Watts      
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D  
T. Shorter, Esq.    
M. DeVeh  
John Lament, Esq  
C. McLean, Esq 
Miss Douglas   
R.B.     
D. H. W 
A. Glendinning, Esq 
W. Glynes, Esq      
J. T. Peeie, Esq.   
Dr. 0. L. Robertson   
Mrs. S. Dickson     
Regnnm       
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq 
F. A. Binney, Esq.  
J. Gledstanes, Esq... 
Mrs. M. Gregory  ; 
Dr. Hayle    
C. P. Carter, Esq  
Mrs. Wiseman 
Baronin v, Vay   
C. Parsons, Esq.  
C. O. G.      
D. S. V. 
£50 0 0
50 0 0
30 0 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
19 7 6
10 16 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
5 5 0
5 5 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0>
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 0 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
0 18 4
0 10 6
0 10 0
0 7 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E, W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
