[Registered as a Newspapb
C|r£ #I^st |l^tospaptr toiilj Sprxiwalism m d&xmt §nfahr.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK;
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 223, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 200.—-(VOL. VIII.—No. 25.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Mrs. 'Weldon’s Orphanage 289
Life and Death: Progress and Retrogression:—A Message
lately given through the Medinmship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”       ... 290
Testing Physical Mediums ...   292
The Development of Organisations 293
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Test Manifestations  ... 294
An Occultist Funeral Ceremony  ...  294
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—A Revelation
in a Dream—The York Ghost again—The Psychology
of the Hindoos—The Progress of the Psychological
Society  295
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris:—M. Ley marie’s
Prison 296
Correspondence:—The Education of Spiritualists' Children
—The Dawn of a New Eastern Religion—A Vision of
the Death of the Sultan of Turkey; Is the Vision
Trustworthy ?—Dematerialisation Phenomena—Writ¬
ing Mediumship—The Urim and Thumm’m—Occult
Reminiscences—The “ Five Minutes’ Resolution ” ... 296
The Honorary Secretaryship of the National Association
of Spiritualists  298
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken 299
Spiritualism in Liverpool   299
Cured by Spirit Aid  299
National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council    299
Answers to Correspondents   300
Paragraphs:—Lecture by Mr. Barkas, 294; Library of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 294; A Seance
in Portsmouth, 296; Seances at Newcastle, 300; Dupli¬
cation of Form, 300: Sensations after the Amputation
of a Leg, 300; The Influence of Coloured Rays upon
Life    300
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
fienres count as one word. Displayed Advertisement• Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O. 
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pei iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
O LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. GJ
guineas a week for four months. References given and re-
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight. 
MR.S. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie's Nuisery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contiibute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O. ■
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
OTICE.—The Materialisation. Seances adver¬
tised for Wednesday evening at 329, Kentish-town-road
will not take place. A developing circle will be held at eight
as usual. Admission, Is.—W. Wallace,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of thi Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by variaus means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism. ’
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
n-ivilege. Strangers can (only be admitted to the ordinary seance
leld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Associat ion by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar, organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All;the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
'* To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
Inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facte respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, eircie regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
rriHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE H OMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenseum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;’’ The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d, each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘ THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquiiers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Sp'ritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
. residing in tho same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admnsion to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spit Dualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-st: eet, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS.—Prize Essays.—The Prize Essays
on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, ls.l£d.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.—The
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. B.
Cogman’s work in Spiritualism at the East End of London,
will be held on Sunday, June 25th, at five o'clock, at 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E. Tickets, Is. each.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton, Weekly Seances. &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday,/Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday,/Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at tho
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, afld very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK,
LONDON, N.W,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 23, 1876
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.’VVest Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Cbarles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Beniard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, I'homas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Eitz-Berald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-pavk, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-liill, Balham, S.W.
Hitcliman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islingtou-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.t, Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build.-
•ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D . Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandm-
road, South Hampstead, 3ST.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Ad^head, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Aim’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Hollaud-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tlvos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K-, Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crostand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hlll, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixtori, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glehdinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hihde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamout, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosvvorthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- ,
sington, S.W. \
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wijson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, 8 W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wifhall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wppd, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors*
Mr. J. H. Andre* Mr, H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Kassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
Tire Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
- via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksattof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
Tire Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M-Beebles, Esq., Hammonton,AtlanticCo„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
SI. G. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W.- Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, -Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
’ U.S.A. • ’ -
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq-, M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de lAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
■President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thacketay, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 0s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON;—SlMP.KIN, MARSHALL & CO.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physioal
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastleon-
Tyne.
T% TISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
XtJL Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructious in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
n^TOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
v Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSIOAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (SO Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, medium,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somuambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs. 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Gd. Physical
seances for spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, L hurch-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. Gd.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
Seances at kentish-town.—Mr. w.
Wallace, formerly known as the Missionary Medium
has made arrangements for a Seance every W ednesday evening,
at which Mr. Bullock, jun., will assist as medium. 7.30 for 8
precisely; 329, Kentish-town-road, N.W. (a few doors from
the Midland Railway Station). Omnibuses pass the door
Admission, 2s. Gd.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmteld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of Tfte
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had at the Branch
Office of The Spiritualist Newspaper, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O. Price Gd., post free, 7d.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,tl 6, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
ji Jl&jtrtjir xit i\$ xtf nnh tif
Volume Eiqht. Kumber Twenty-five.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE. j j
Some seven or eight years ago Mrs. Weldon, of Tavistock i) |
House, Tavistock-square, London, by a mere chance and j ^ j
from charitable motives, took a pupil. She was a clergy- i j |
man’s daughter, and Mrs. Weldon in course of time began to m
teach the whole family. The difficulties, however, raised by | \ j
the mother, and the death of Mrs. Weldon’s first pupil, were |( 1
the first troubles she experienced in connection with the 'j)|
mission which appeared entrusted to her. Nothing daunted, i |
however, she prosecuted what had become her all-absorbing | !
occupation with relentless activity, and, after many trials, !) [
she resolved to adopt only forsaken children as her own. ; |
These children, when they are first received by her, are fre- : ;
quently cowed and nervous from previous beatings and other |) |
ill-usage, and she finds that it takes from three to four m
months before this abnormal state of timidity and the dogged i i
sullenness induced thereby, wear off. She understands the |j
ways and thoughts of children, and teaches them herself; m
consequently they look upon her as one of themselves. She | j
is not rearing them for domestic service, or with the view of \)\
turning them out at an early age, but means to keep home i |
influence over them until they are twenty-one years of age, m,
giving them meanwhile a sound education, to which singing j |
and other accomplishments are superadded. In this work | j
she spends the whole of her time, and the whole of her in- j j
come, but thinks that in so doing a certain amount of useful | !
energy is lost, because she would be able to teach more chil- i I
dren if she could afford to keep them. Consequently, if the | |
public volunteer to help her in her work by subscription, I !
the funds will be applied directly, with the utmost economy, I I
to rescuing poor children from a career of misery. In the m
meanwhile Mrs. Weldon has, with the aid of friends, es.ta- \\\
blished a small publishing business at 39, Great Marlborough- j 5!
street, and the works bought there will in time bring in a j j
considerable income to the Orphanage. Mrs. Weldon has | i
published several works, written by herself, with reference I ;
to the Orphanage, and her views upon education in general, j j i
and these may be referred to by all who desire further j j j
information. . “In
Mrs. Weldon is a Spiritualist, and has published in France j j j
a detailed account of some seances which she attended at the I \;
house of M. Gustave de Yeh, of Paris, and at which she | /1
received some remarkable test-messages. The manner in i||
which the messages were spelled out was that pursued most i j!
commonly in France, and habitually in this country at the j j i
stances of Mrs. Mary Marshall. A card on which the alpha- i j
bet is printed in large letters is laid upon the table, the j (
medium holds a pointer over the letters in succession ; when j 1
the right letter is arrived at raps come upon the table in I j
token of assent. By this means the sitter for whom the j j
message is intended has less power to influence the raps j
than some inquirers imagine he has when calling over the I)
alphabet aloud, by emphasising those which form the name |
or words he may desire. In the instances recorded by j
Mrs. Weldon it so happened that whenever she desired |j
very ardently that certain friends should communicate with |
her, scarcely any phenomena occurred ; when, at the sugges- \\
tion of Madame de Yeh, she remained perfectly passive, i)
marked manifestations of the table began, and the name of K
“ Yictoire Gounod ” was given, followed by a message suf- j
ficient to Mrs. Weldon’s mind, to establish the identity of ||
the communicating spirit. While the message was being j|
given to her, Mrs. Weldon refused to hold the pointer, to look ]
at the alphabet, or to write down the words as they were j
spelled, in case it should be said that her thoughts had j
influenced the communication. On another occasion | j
Mrs, Weldon asked mentally by what name one of her friends I)
then living, the son of the alleged spirit, was in the habit jj
of calling her. The table answered, i(Ma mie” and then lw
JUNE 23rd, 1876.
proceeded, m-a-m, i, e, t, a, p, which the medium said was
nonsense. The table insisted, however, and spelled out
£, a, p, a, n, v, r} e} v, L <?, t. The medium exclaimed, “ There
is the same name again, Yictoire, how tiresome.” On con¬
tinuing, however, the word proved to be ‘‘•victime” and
referred, as was afterwards seen, to certain domestic relations
of the person in question, which were unknown to any one
in the room but Mrs. Weldon. The medium, Madame
Rodiere, was soon afterwards invited to sit with Mrs. Weldon
at her own house, with very satisfactory results. Leaving
Paris a short time afterwards, Mrs. Weldon did not pursue her
Spiritualistic studies further, but her conviction of the truth
and usefulness of Spiritualism is unshaken.
Last Saturday afternoon a grand orchestral concert in aid
of Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage was given at St. James’s Hull;
several of the chief musicians of the day took part, and the
proceedings were under the patronage of many of the English
nobility, also H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge, H.R.H. the
Duchess of Cambridge, H.S.H. the Duke of Took, and^
H.R.H. Princess Mary, Duchess of Teck. Great St. James’s
Hall was well filled by an appreciative audience, including
several well-known Spiritualists. The concert, as might be
expected from the musical ability of Mrs. Weldon (also
known as Miss Treherne), consisted of a high class and
appropriate selection, unexceptionably performed. The
orchestra was complete, well balanced, and most efficient,
and the united Alexandra Palace and Gounod choirs,
though in unaccompanied harmony failing of that perfect
temperament so incompatible with instrumental practice, did
justice to the important choruses entrusted to them. The
programme comprised many acceptable novelties, the first
being the opening march triumphale, “Fete de Jupiter” by
Gounod, very characteristic, with marked time, tuneful
motives, well sustained though rich and varied orchestration ;
Conducted by Mr. Alfred Cellier. A simple but pleasing
chorale measure 4-time part song, to Wordsworth’s “ Cuc¬
koo,” by Alfred Rawlings, was well rendered by choir alone.
The overture and fragments of a cantata, “ Nourmahal,”
led by the composer, Mr. Urich, is in a somewhat preten¬
tious, elaborate style, but not unpleasing; the majestic
“ Largo” in 4-time lor chorus, and the melodious soprano
solo, both cleverly accompanied, earned deserved applause.
A serenade, written expressly for Mrs. Weldon, and con¬
ducted with great discretion by the talented young composer,
Mr. Hamilton Clarke, is a most satisfactory work, pretty,
tuneful, symmetrically arranged, with a pleasing variety of
orchestral colouring, and was not better received than it de¬
served. After chanting together the Lord’s Prayer, two of
the most infantile of Mrs. Weldon’s proteges, aged three
and four years, played a pianoforte duet, joining conscienti¬
ously themselves in the applause bestowed on their perfor¬
mance; and were followed by an imposing recitation of
strictly classic nursery poems by a young lady a little over
two years old. A descriptive symphony, “ The Sea of
Galilee,” by Gounod, the words of the recitative to which
are adapted, and were finely sung by the fair beneficiary
herself, terminated the first part.
The second portion of the programme consisted of
Gounod’s “ Jeanne d’Arc,” the noble Coronation March of
which is so well known, and of which the grand Prayer
Chorus was very effectively given by the choir. It is to be
hoped this unique concert was as useful to the excellent
charity of Mrs. Weldon, as it was interesting to the
audience, whose attention was secured to the end of a long
but very successful performance.
A contributor who was present at the concert has for¬
warded us the following critical remarks:—“ The solos were
sung by Mrs. Weldon and her pupils with the exception of
Signor Federici, who sang in his best manner, “Oh, that we
200
*2:
tivo were Maying,” by M. Gounod, charmingly accompanied
on the cello, by M. Libotton, and on the pianoforte by Mr.
-Hamilton Clarke, who, although suffering from severe illness,
also conducted a serenade of his own most artistically scored,
and a new work by Gounod, u On the Sea of Galilee.” This
was the gem of the concert, in spite of the several works of
the young composer, Mr. John Urich being received with far
greater enthusiasm, and there being perhaps more vigour
about the compositions of the latter, which went far to de¬
serve the applause with which they were greeted. Mrs.
Weldon sung the solo, and with most pleasing effect, almost
unseen from her place among the choir. Mr. Alfred Cellier
conducted in an able manner Jeanne D'Arc by Gounod, and
the whole concert went off very well. There was no lagging
about it. The pieces followed each other in quick succession,
and only one encore was accepted, namely, in Mr. Urich’s
lively and very interesting composition “ Amarilla,” an
African melody, sung and played with remarkable force and
effect by the efficient choirs and orchestra composed of many
members of the Alexandra Palace and Gounod choirs, and
of her Majesty’s band, with Mr. Pollitzer as leader.”
In the course of the second part of the concert certain
selections, which were rendered from u Jeanne d’Arc,” with
music by Gounod, had a decidedly Spiritualistic nature.
When Joan of Arc, the clairaudient medium, first heard
the voices which incited her to go forth and save France,
she was alone. The Angelus was ringing at the village
church; she prayed, and gradually she felt a kind of ecstasy
creep over her ; the vision revealed itself, and she heard the
voices of her Saints bidding her go forth on her mission,
the Celestial Chorus chanting u Jesu Maria ” :—
ST. MASGABET AND ST. CATHERINE.
Joan ! Fear not! For ’tis the Lord who commands thee. Obey !
‘ Oh ! Fear not, craven heart, He will teach thee the way.
Joan ! Joan! It is Jesus thy Lord who commands.
Fear not, Joan ! God hath commanded ;
Else up, Joan. Go forth, Heaven-blest maid !
Joan ! Joan! God is with thee. Go !
[Chorus)—Jesu Maria 1
’Tis for thee we raise our voices,
’Tis in thee that Heaven rejoices.
Joan! Joan ! God is with thee. Go !
[Chorus)—Jesu Maria!
To father and mother
Thou must now bid a long farewell;
Thou art chosen, thou, and no other,
So follow thou the Lord thy God.
[Chorus)—Jesu Maria!
Fear not! Fear not! God hath commanded.
Eise up, Joan. Go forth, Heaven chosen maid!
Joan! Joan! God is with thee. Go!
( Chorus)—Jesu Maria!
Joan! Joan! say not thou art afraid !
Go, daughter of God! Go!
(Chorus)—Jesu Maria!
LIFE AND DEATH: PKOGBESS AND RETROGRESSION.
A MESSAGE LATELY GIVEN THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP OP “ M.A., OX0N.”
\The Jollowing message relates to a case in which the per¬
sonal identity of the communicating spirit was established by
very strong evidence. Among many such this seems to me to
stand out prominently, and, making all allowance for willing¬
ness and ability to deceive, I find it impossible to understand
how so coherent and complete a series of proofs can be explained
away by any theory of personation or self-deception. The
messages relate to the death, under melancholy circumstances,
of a friend whom I had known intimately all his life. A sit¬
ting at Mr. Hudson's had resulted in his image appearing on
the photographic plate, and I have since seen and known the
presence of the spirit about me continually. When the photo¬
graph was taken I was entranced, and the name of the spirit
was given to me, another person at the same time describing
the position in which the figure had placed itself. The
development of the plate showed this description to be correct,
and I have no difficulty in recognising a bad image or simu¬
lacrum of my Jriend who had been specially brought before
my mind before going to Hudson!s. There was another and
more striking point connected with this matter which I cannot
print: it must suffice that I state that identity, both of external
form and of mental characteristics, is distinctly made out.~\
June 23, 1876,
I We would speak with you of your friend. But first, we
| wish to explain that we prevented, so far as we could, any
| return of physical manifestations to you. We did not wish
| the medial power to recur to that phase. Hence we have
| prevented you from being placed in circumstances where it
| would be likely to be encouraged. We have explained before
j. that we do not wish you to remain on the physical plane,
] and have therefore discontinued our meetings. Nor did we
t wish that your friend should become attached to you. His
| spiritual state is lowj and it would have been well that you
! had not attracted him. Since you have done so you must
1 now help him to progress. M. has rightly told you that
you had entered into his sphere from association and conver¬
sation with , and from your thoughts being directed
towards him strongly. That is the law of attraction of
spirit to spirit. You know this ?
’[Yes; but it does not always act, or rather its results are
seldom manifest to us. Is he unhappy ? ]
How should he be blest? He lifted sacrilegious hands
against the shrine in which the All-Wise had placed his
spirit for its progress and development. He wasted oppor¬
tunities and destroyed, so far as he was able, the temple in
which dwelt the Divine spark, which was his portion. He
sent forth his spirit alone and friendless into a strange world
where no place was yet prepared for it. He impiously flew
in the face of the Great Father. How should he be blest ?
Impious, disobedient, wilful in his death, heedless, idle,
selfish in his life, and yet more selfish in bringing pain and
sorrow on his earthly Iriends by his untimely death,—how
should he find rest. The wasted life cries out for vengeance.
The fostered self-hood dominates him still, and makes him
ill at ease. Selfish in his life, selfish in his earthly end, he
is selfish still. Miserable, blind, and undeveloped, there is
no rest for such as he till repentance has had its place, and
remorse leads to regeneration. He is outcast.
[ What hope of progress
Yes ; there is hope. Already there stirs within him the
consciousness of sin. He sees dimly through the spiritual
gloom how foolish and how wicked was his life. He begins to
wake to some faint knowledge of his desolation, and to strive
for light. Hence he remains near you. You must help him
though at your own cost.
[ Willingly; but how /I
By prayer first. By fostering the dawnings of the higher
life. By allowing the unhappy spirit to breathe the higher
atmosphere of work. His spirit knows not what that pure
and bracing atmosphere is. You must teach him, though
his presence be unpleasant to you. You have summoned
him, and he comes obedient to your call. You must bear
with him now. You cannot undo what you have done in
spite of us and of our wishes. Your consolation must be
that you will be engaged in a work that is blessed.
[It is not fair to say I summoned him ; but I will do any
thing. He was mad and not accountable.~\
He was and is accountable, and he begins to know it. The
seeds of his final sin wherewith he has cursed himself were
sown in a life of idle uselessness. He fostered and encouraged
morbid self-introspection. He brooded over self, not for the
purpose of progress and development, not to eradicate faults
and foster virtues, but in selfish exclusiveness. He was
enwrapped in a cloud of distorted selfishness. This bred in
him disease, and in the end he fell a prey to tempters in the
spirit who fastened on him and drove him to his ruin. He
exposed himself a prey to those who are always ready to
seduce to ruin, and so far he was mad, as you say ; but the
mad act was the result of his own acts. And now he throws
the same influence around those whom he wounded in his
death. A curse to himself he becomes a curse to those he
loves.
[Horrible ! That seems to me the very bitterness of retribu¬
tion. I can understand how an idle, selfish life breeds
spiritual disease. Selfishness seems to me to be the root sin.']
It is the plague-spot of the spirit, that which wrecks more
souls than you dream of. It is the very paralysis of the
soul. And when to it is added this moreover, that the selfish¬
ness is passive, it becomes more fatal. There is a selfishness
which is far less baleful in its poison, and which finds its
counteracting power in activity, and which even becomes
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 23, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
the spring of actions which have in them a form of good, j
There is a selfishness which causes a spirit to do well that it |
may have the good report of its fellows: and there is a j
selfishness which is content to do good so it be not vexed or |
troubled, which will yield to any influence, so it may escape j
anxiety. These are faults which hold the spirit back from j
progress ; but they are not the baleful plague which ate into |
this spirit’s life, and drove it to despair and death. That |
was the meaner selfishness which stirred him not to any j
deeds or to action of any kind. It was idle and useless, no
less than self-pleasing; nay, it was not even self-pleasing,
for the whole life was blurred and blotted with morbid
scrutiny of self, till its very lineaments were eaten out.
This selfishness was cruel alike to himself and to his friends.
There are grades of sin, and his was deep. Listen while the
story is recounted for your instruction. But rest awhile, and
we will remove the disturbing influence from your mind.
[/ Teas a good deal disturbed: but I fell into a deep trance-like
sleep, during which 1 had a soothing vision, and from which I
awoke refreshed.~\
It is not necessary to go through in detail the story of
that wasted life. Its spirit was eaten out with cruel selfish¬
ness, and its end was destruction of self-consciousness.
Mad he was, as you estimate madness. None lifts the hand
of the suicide against himself save when the disordered
mind has lost its power of judgment. The balance is
destroyed, and the spirit has fallen a prey to the tempters
which surround it.
But your estimates of sin are rude. The state was self-
induced. The spirit delivered itself over to the foes, and
wrought its own ruin. This was not one of the cases where
hereditary conditions of disease unfitted a spirit for judg¬
ment and right action. The suicide was the outcome of the
selfish idler. It was an access of temptation that withdrew
the power of reason, and caused the crime. In others the
temptation might have taken other forms ; but whether it
led to destruction of self, or to ruin or hurt of others,
to whatever gratification of self it tended, the root is
the same.
That spirit which neglects to use its powers, which acts
not, but morbidly dwells on fancied ills or sufferings,
assuredly breeds in itself disease. The law of existence
is work—for God, for brethren, for self; not for one alone,
but for all. Transgress that law, and evil must ensue.
The stagnant life becomes corrupt, and acts as a corrupter of
others. It is vicious and noisome ; hurtful to the com¬
munity, in that it defrauds it of its due from one of its
members, and sets up a plague spot of infection which
becomes a fertile centre of mischief. It matters not what
course the evil takes, its source is still the same. In this
case the evil eventuated in personal harm, and in the
wrecking of a wasted life. It has tended in sorrow and
shame to the injury of all who were associated with him.
When the cord of earth-life was severed, the spirit found
itself in darkness and distress. For long it was unable to
sever itself from the body. It hovered round it even after
the grave had closed over the shrine which it had violated.
It was unconscious, without power of movement, weak,
wounded, and distressed. It found no rest, no welcome in
the world to which it had come unbidden. Darkness sur¬
rounded it, and through the gloom dimly flitted the forms of
congenial spirits who had made shipwreck of themselves, and
were in unrestful isolation. These drew near, and their
atmosphere added vague discomfort to the half-conscious
spirit.
It was not till the first shudder of awakening conscience
attracted the ministering spirits, that anything could be
done to palliate the misery, not yet half felt or acknowledged,
or to minister healing to the soul. When it stirred amid
the darkness, the ministers drew near and strove to quicken
the seared conscience, and to awaken remorse. In seeming
cruelty they strove to bring home a knowledge of its state,
and to paint before it a picture of its sin. Only through the
portal of remorse could it enter into rest; and so the con¬
science must be quickened at the cost of pain.
For long their efforts availed little; but by degrees they
succeeded in awakening some measure of consciousness of
sin, and the spirit began to grope blindly for some means
of escape from a state which had become loathsome to it.
! Frequent relapses dragged it back. The tempters were all
I around it, and no effort of theirs was spared to mete out to
II the spirit the full measure of its lawful penalty. They know
| it not; they do but gratify their debased instincts, but they
| are the avenging ministers of doom.
The hope for the spirit is that it may be nerved to occupy
| itself with some beneficent work, and so to work out its own
| salvation. To this end it must journey on through remorse
| and uncongenial labour: for by no other means can it be
| purified. Selfishness must be eradicated by self-sacrifice.
I Idleness must be rooted out by laborious toil. The spirit
must be purified by suffering. This is for it the only upward
path of progress ; a path that its past has made it difficult,
nearly impossible, for it to tread. Reiterated efforts must
secure each onward step, and frequent slips and backslidings
will try endurance to the utmost. Step by step the way
must be won in sorrow, remorse, and shame, with faintings
and cries of the despairing soul; won, too, against tempta¬
tion all around, against the suggestions of the foe who will
not fail to goad the aspiring soul; won as through a baptism
of fire. Such is the penalty; such the road to the heaven
that can be won in no other way.
Such help as the ministers can give will not be with-
holden. It is their glorious mission to help on the aspiring,
and to cheer the fainting soul. But, though they may com¬
fort, they cannot save one pang, nor palliate by one jot the
penalty of transgression. No vicarious store of merit can
avail; no friend may bear the burden, or lift it from the
weary back. It must be borne by the soul that sinned,
though helps and aids be given to strengthen and support
the failing energies.
This is the inevitable penalty of a wasted life. It may
be that the half-quenched spark may be quickened again,
and be fanned into a flame strong enough to light the spirit
onward. It may be that the spirit may wander in gloom
and desolation, deaf to the voice of the ministers, and
groaning in lonely unrest, nerveless for the struggle, till the
sin, through cycles of purgatorial suffering, has eaten out
its virulence. It may be that the time consumed in such
purgation may seem to you an eternity; or the soul may
wake and stir before its condition has become fixed; and so
by an effort of despairing energy may struggle up to light,
and may welcome the suffering that leads to purification,
and may have strength not all sapped to cast off the habits
of earth, and wake to newness of life.
It may be; but such are rare cases. Characters are not
so easily changed ; nor does the fire of purification work so
rapidly. Too frequently he that died selfish or filthy is
selfish or filthy still, and the present proves only a perpetua¬
tion of the past. Pray for strength to minister to him who
has in him the first faint dawnings of progression. Pray
that his darkness may be enlightened, and his unrest soothed
by the angelic ministrations. Such prayers are the most
potent medicine for his disease.
\_On reading over what had been written, I suggested that
the picture was one to strike dismay into a man, however
much he strove to progress. I said the ideal was too high
for earth. ]
Nay 1 We have not painted the picture in all its details ;
h nor have we overdrawn or overcoloured it in any way. We
| are not able to bring home to you the full horror of the
desolation and misery of such a wasted life. No words that
we can write would express the full measure of the woe felt
I by a soul that has awakened to remorse after a life such as
I this of which we speak. For the rest, we are not responsible
| for any ideal. We put forward none, save that which exists
I in the eternal and unalterable sequence of events. Selfish¬
ness and sin bring misery and remorse before they can be
| purged away. It is not we who laid down that law, but the
Eternal and All-wise. We have but pointed out to you once
again the operation of a law the working of which you may
i see all around you. We desired to point out what men are
j apt to forget, that though there be no formal judgment such
| as has been imagined, at a far distant day, in presence of an
| assembled universe, when the Recording Angel shall produce
| the Books of Doom, and the Christ shall sit in judgment,
| and shall condemn the sinner to an everlasting hell: though
there be none of this, yet that every act is registered, every
thought recorded, every habit known as a factor in the futiu -j
TSE SPIU ITITALIST.
JtTNfi 23, 1876,
292
character. We would show you that the judgment of con- |
demnation needs no paraphernalia of assize, but is conducted I s
in the silent recesses of the soul itself. No judge is there | (
hut the voice of Spirit communing with itself, and reading |)
its own doom. N® books but the records of conscience ; no j s
hell but the flame of remorse that shall eat into the soul and | (
purge it as by fire. |)
And this, not in a far-off future when the arisen myriads ! s
of humanity shall all have been gathered up, but instant on ! I
death, quick as consciousness awakes, sure as the soul stirs I;
in the new life. This too, not subject to a faint, perhaps in ! \
a dim and hazy light seen far off down the vista of the j ?
future, but sure and certain, instant and inevitable. We | >
would teach you this. For it has been said of us that our ! <
G-ospel removes the terror from religion, by which motive i)
alone the most of men may be governed and restrained, and !)
substitutes for it a faith which teaches salvation for all, | (
whatever their deeds may be, whatever creed they may pro- | /
fes?. We do not teach any such insensate creed. You | j
know it; but you need to have repeated again and again !
the truth on which we have been insisting : Man makes his j)
own future, stamps his own character, suffers for his own \
sins, and must work out his own salvation. H
We did but dwell on this side because the story of that |
wasted life invited by its example. We have dwelt often i
enough on the lighter side of grace and beauty and angelic |
ministration. You need not to be told of the abounding !
mercy and love of the Supreme, nor of the tender watchful !
care which is ceaselessly exercised by those who minister |
between Him and you. It is well sometimes to show the |
dark side of loneliness and desolation, and temptation by !
the foes.
The ideal was not high : and if it were, high ideals serve |
only to brace the aspiring soul: they are too high for those j
only who have no ambition to ascend : not for those whose I (
lives have not been eaten out by selfishness and sin, whose !
energies are yet strong and will grow stronger by the exercise i
of them. Be assured, good friend, that the grand truth can | <
never be escaped. Life is a journey, a conflict, a develop- u
ment. The journey is up-hill, and the way is thorn-beset | (
and difficult. The conflict is unending till victory crowns I
the final effort. The development is spiritual from a lower ;
to a higher plane, from the child of earth to the measure of I
the stature of the Christ. You cannot change the unalterable. | j
You cannot reach the Perfect Good save after a conflict with |
evil. It is an eternal necessity that you be purified through j)
struggles with the evil that surrounds you. It is the means I}
by which the spark once struck off from the Divine Soul wins |)
back its way to Him and enters into its rest.
Do you need to be told that true happiness is to be had j
only by living up to the highest ideal ? That the idler and the !
sluggard know it not ? That the vicious man and the evil- i
doer, who sins of choice and by preference, have no part in it? } \
That peace on earth springs up only in the soul that soars I i
heavenwards, and finds its happiness in viewing the dangers j
and difficulties that have been overpassed. Do you need to !
be told again that the angels watch over such to bear them i;
up, that the ministers count it honour to support them, and |
that no final harm can fasten on the spirit which keeps a i
high ideal before it. Victory is assured : but it would not i
be victory were it found without a struggle in selfish and ;
inglorious ease, by those who would not value what every j
idle hand might pluck. Victory comes after conflict: Peace i i
after Tribulation : Development after steady Growth.
[/ replied that this seemed to me matter of course: and that |
in the seed time of life man must get as much knowledge, do as \ j
much work, and enjoy such peace as he can. But the work and | j
the knowledge {especially of God Himself and His future) must |
precede Peace, or Rest. Perhaps too little room was left for I)
meditation.'] j
No; the life is threefold: of meditation and prayer: of wor- j)
ship and adoration : and of conflict with the threefold enemy. |
The meditation is necessary to self-knowledge. It is an I j
element of steady growth. With it goes prayer, the com- j
munion of the prisoned soul with the Father of spirits, and |
with us His ministers. Worship and adoration, in any of |
the countless phases that the soul seeks out for itself, whether !
in silent solitude beneath the heavens that speak to him of j
his God, or in communion with Nature, the external and i'
material manifestation of Deity, or in the solemn service of
song within some stately temple which man has separated
for God : or in the upward aspiration of the heart unuttered
and unheard of man:—in any or all of these ways the in¬
stinct of adoration divinely implanted may find its vent.
These are the necessary helps for the sustained conflict. We
do not undervalue them: rather do we insist on them. We
tell you that it would be well if you devoted more time to
peaceful thought. Your life lacks quietness.
[As to the accountability of this spirit for its rash act.
Surely you admit some cases where the spirit is not ac¬
countable.]
Assuredly. The human instrument may be jarred and out
of tune, and so may faultily transmit the will of the spirit
within. There are many cases in which madness is the result
of bodily disease. For such the spirit is not blameworthy.
Accidental injury may derange, or congenital defect, or over¬
strain of trouble and distress. For such causes the spirit is
blamed by none, least of all by the Holy and Just One, who
deals not with body but with spirit, and who judges according
to spiritual motive and intent. We reprobated the case on
which we spoke, because the end was the result of life-long
sin. He was and is responsible, and he begins to know it. -
May the Allwise foster and increase the knowledge.
+ Imperatoe.
TESTING PHYSICAL MEDIUMS.
Experience has proved that so far as physical manifesta¬
tions observed at seances are concerned, it is necessary
to obtain them under very strict test conditions whenever it
is intended to publish the facts. In private circles this may
not be necessary, and in many cases is not desirable.
Ropes, tapes, and strings have been used for the securing
of mediums inside cabinets in such a way that they cannot
move. Tying by means of rope should be abolished
altogether, because rope is usually stiff, and if it be tied
about a medium so as to bind him in a secure manner, he
must almost of necessity be hurt by the knots pressing into
his flesh. Any ordinary tying by means of rope is not secure,
for experiment has proved that it is not so difficult to slip
out of rope bonds as might be expected. Tying by means
of strong thread is theoretically a secure method of testing,
but at the close of the seance, when everybody is usually in
a hurry to leave, it is not easy to tell whether the threads
have been cut, or otherwise tampered with, for they hang
together in a tangled skein when severed from the medium,
and it requires some time and patient examination to ascer¬
tain whether they are all right. Practically and theoretically
narrow red tape is about the best thing to use in binding
the hands, feet, and body of a medium. Sound knots can
then be tied close to the skin so that the medium cannot
possibly slip his hand out of a loop round the wrist, and at
the same time the said loop and knot, need not be close
enough to’hurt him. When the seance is over, supposing
the tape to have been severed anywhere while he was in the
cabinet, the circumstance will be at once noticed by the spec¬
tators, although a cut thread might escape observation.
There is this danger in the use of tape. Every now and then
a skein, as bought at the shop, will have a sewed-joint
in it to complete the length, one piece of tape being thus
neatly fastened to another; if this should be discovered at
the close of a test seance, instead of before, the medium
might be unjustly blamed for playing tricks. Mr. Luxmoore,
who in the Katie King manifestations brought the securing
of mediums by means of tape to great perfection, one night
discovered as he was fastening a length of tape round the
waist of the medium, that there was a sewed joint in it. Sup¬
posing this had been discovered for the first time at the close
of the seance, how very much public contention might have
arisen on the subject, to the detriment of the medium. The
most secure thing of all for the binding of mediums is whip¬
cord well covered with cobbler’s wax. Double knots tied in
well waxed whipcord cannot be undone without much difficulty.
In all cases the knots should be sealed with signet rings,
and the seal should be put on in such a way that no acci¬
dental strain upon the tape or knots will break the seal.
The spirits who produce materialisation manifestations
are, for the most part, tricky; they are able to produce
Juira 23, 1876. $HE SPIRITUAIilST. 293
gemiine materialisation manifestations if they like. They j
are also able to liberate the medium from bonds in the j
twinkling of an eye, make him act the ghost, and put him ||
back again at the close of the stance. Materialisation j
mediums, then, should for their own sakes refuse to sit for j
manifestations unless they have first been most securely tied jj
and sealed, not by a personal friend, but by the greatest I
stranger present in the company. Afterwards they cannot jj
well be held responsible for anything which takes place, |j
because if the spirits should exhibit their bodies as j
materialised spirit forms, the circumstance of their being |
found tied at the close of the seance the same as they were j
at the beginning will prove that they have been merely in- j
struments in the hands of a power beyond their own control, j
If, however, a medium who had not been secured at the jjj
beginning of a seance should be found acting the part of a j
materialised spirit, the public will naturally enough charge jjj
him with imposture, and listen to no other explanation; j j
even his friends will be wholly unable to decide whether jj
the charge is a just one or the reverse.
The facts of materialisation are of too much importance j j
to rest upon doubtful evidence so far as publication is con- j 1
cerned ; hence experienced Spiritualists in this country will j j
never commit themselves to publicly recognising as genuine j j
any full-form manifestations which may be witnessed on jjj
the premises of the medium, in which an ordinary room is j j
used as a cabinet. The Holmses’ were powerful mediums, j I
yet as they deceived Mr. Robert Dale Owen by means of a ijj
tricky cabinet containing a sliding board, about which Mr. jj!
Nelson Holmes spoke in his private letters to Mrs. White, jj
how much more doubtful must have been those alleged Ijj
manifestations which took place when they used a bedroom, j !
In private, physical mediums may use bedrooms as cabinets j j
as much as they please, but so far as the public are con- j j
cerned their best manifestations under these conditions will | j
carry no weight whatever, and all the time and work of the j j
spirits and the mediums will be lost. The more experienced ij j
English Spiritualists have thoroughly made up their minds j
not to attach any particular public weight to alleged jjj
materialisation manifestations produced in other than pro- j j
perly constructed cabinets. Professional mediums need put i j
themselves to no great expense in the matter, since the best j I
cabinet of all consists of a cloth nailed diagonally across I j
one corner of a drawing-room; thus they can have a tri- j j
angular cabinet easily examined, for it will consist but of j
curtains hanging in front with two solid brick walls behind, jj
Manifestations are most powerful when the medium is j !
thoroughly comfortable and happy: hence there is a j I
tendency on the part of half-informed novices to advocate j j
the abolition of all test conditions, and they truly obtain jjj
advanced manifestations in consequence. But it is not true, jjj
as we once thought and argued in these pages, that when a jjj
small, upright, honourable circle of believers surrounds a j i
physical medium, no evil thing can enter such a spiritual jj
atmosphere. Unprogressed spirits will even then sometimes jjj
find their way in, and by means of spirit hands and arms jjj
impose upon the best friends of the medium, at one end of jjj
a room, by producing that which is not what they state it to jjj
be, and all the time the medium may be in a dead trance at ijj
the other end of the apartment. It is also a strange fact jjj
that if a physical medium resolves to play tricks, there are j j
spirits who will help him. Perhaps in some cases which j j
superficially appear to be of this nature, the spirits produce jjj
half the manifestations by their own direct action, and the j j
other half through their insensible instrument, who, how- jj
ever, has to take all the responsibility. It is quite possible j j
that a spirit, in making the “ double ” of a medium’s hand jjj
by will-power, may not know at first whether he is moving jj
the actual hand of the medium, or the independent hand he jjj
intends to take from it. These problems are difficult to j j
solve, and while, on the one hand, they call for all kindness j j
and charity to the medium, on the other they demand vigi- jjj
lance of observation when publicity is intended. Ladies and jjj
gentlemen of honour and character are nobly bearing public jjj
witness to the truth of Spiritualism, and it is necessary that jjj
they and their testimony should be protected from the jj
baneful effects of the tricks of unprincipled spirits, and of the j I
spiteful jealousy of each other of certain physical mediums, jj j
THE DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANISATIONS.
If one of the distinguishing characteristics of a Spiritualist
were utter incompetency to conduct the affairs of his daily
life with the same efficiency as other persons, and if in
battling with the powers of this world he were always
defeated, such circumstances would be to a certain extent
evidence that his judgment was also not of much value in
relation either to religion or morals. In order to show that
Spiritualists are able to manage their own affairs in a
rational way, the business proceedings relating to the
formation and growth of the British National Association
of Spiritualists have been more fully reported in these
columns than has been satisfactory to some of the readers of
the Spiritualist, who argue that such matters should not be
published, because they have nothing to do with Spiritualism.
The opportunity of watching and recording the growth of an
organisation, calculated, should it be permanent, to exercise
great influence in the future, cannot often be met with,
hence the chronicling, for the present, at all events, of the
worldly details connected therewith is not without its use,
and will serve as a guide, also as an encouragement or a
warning to associations which may follow in its footsteps.
In the early days of the National Association, the greatest
error of judgment ever committed, was the introduction of
the theological clause into its prospectus. The danger
of any such line of action had been foreseen and pointed out
at the public meeting at Liverpool, at which the Association
was formed; in fact, the general conclusion arrived at in
Liverpool was that theological subjects should be excluded.
In spite of this, such matters were afterwards introduced,
and our opinion at the time was that they would nip the
young Association in the bud. Fortunately, the results were
not so serious, but the progress of the Association was
checked for many months, accompanied by attendant ex¬
penses, after which the unnecessarily imported source of
danger was removed, and it became possible once more to
make headway with public work.
Since then the various members of the organisation—the
great majority of whom have had no previous experience in
public life—have been step by step learning the art of self-
government, and the Association has gradually been falling
into those working grooves into which similar organisations
have been forced as they have gained experience. Therefore
when any improvement in the constitution is to be made,
the course which has been taken by some old-established and
similarly organised body should be considered, whereby
occasional mistakes may perhaps be avoided. Perhaps the
largest and most successful body which approaches nearest in
its constitution and its plan of working to the National
Association of Spiritualists, is the British Association for
the Advancement of Science; so those who are interested
in the perfecting of the constitution of the former body may
perhaps do well to obtain the rules of the latter, and to make
them a subject of study. The why and the wherefore of any
rules connected with the latter organisation which do not
exist in the former might be ascertained by inquiry, after
which it might be considered whether the same conditions
exist in both cases, and whether the same line of action in
relation thereto would be judicious, or the reverse.
However perfect may be the constitution of any public
body, it must of necessity prove to be faulty if individuals
strain it here and there to the utmost, and do not abide by the
spirit of the regulations. A number of men may agree to
construct a chaise, but if some of the builders afterwards
insist that they shall ride upon the shafts, the spirit of the
original undertaking is unexpectedly broken, and the
machine may not be found adequate to meet the excep¬
tional requirements. In like manner, when a number of
individuals form an organisation and meet in a friendly way
to pass such resolutions as may be deemed to be for the
good of the movement, if those who are in the minority do
not yield with natural grace, but try continuously to thwart
the wishes of the majority, thereby destroying harmony,
wasting time and money, and building themselves into a
faction, weakness is of necessity the outcome. No rules
will secure harmonious working under such conditions;
and if any such organisation lasts, the remedy provided by
the laws of nature is the evolution of an unwritten code of
2$4
THIS StflltitftfALtST.
June 23, 1876.
honour, binding the less developed individuals to act up to |j
the principles they profess.
There have been slight symptoms in the National Asso- I
ciation of Spiritualists during the past year of attempts on ;
the part of defeated small minorities to coerce or to hamper i;
the movements of the general body, instead of yielding and 1
proceeding at once with the next business. These attempts R
have not been of a very serious nature, but in other societies \)
where they have grown into factions, actuated by the desire K
to fight to the death, the results have been the quiet with- ||
drawal of the gentler order of members, who never in any !
society identify themselves with such a line of action, who i
do not care to contend either for place or power, who further j
have no desire for ascendancy, although they are the most !
competent to rule; these gradually cease to attend the |
meetings, and in time resign altogether, the funds falling |j
off in proportion. Further, no working officers of a high !
class will serve an intolerant faction ; hence drudges of some !
kind have to be substituted. A decline in the influence,
prestige, and usefulness of organisations is thus the general |
result of the action of every minority which strives to be a K
thorn in the side of the majority, unless as a matter of self- ;
sacrifice for the public good, the members of the forbearing H
majority imitate the combative and overbearing example K
set before them, and enter with sorrow upon a career of !
strife foreign to their nature. The latter course is very pj
rarely adopted. |<
The members of the National Association should be on |)
the alert then, to watch and to counteract anything which j
may tend to grow into a faction, if the seeds of such evil— j
or rather “ painfully educational”—fruit are to be found, j)
As the great danger of theological dissension has already 1
been avoided, so let us hope that the second danger of which I
only incipient symptoms exist, may be escaped or overcome, j)
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEAN CHS. |
TEST MANIFESTATIONS.
Last Monday evening a second seance was held, with Miss j|
Lottie Fowler as medium, at 38, Great Russell-street, jj
London, under the auspices of the British National Asso- |)
ciation of Spiritualists.
The peculiar feature of this seance was that the most ;
striking manifestations took place while the medium was I
under the most severe tests; when, on account of the heat of j
the weather, these were made less stringent, scarcely any- I
thing worthy of notice took place. I do not cite this as |
cause and effect; but as a fact to be observed for the sake of i
the medium. I)
Miss Fowler’s sleeves were securely sewn together at the
wrist, behind her back, by Mr. Cuthbert Yesey, under the
supervision of the Rev. W. Miall; in addition to this, Miss
Fowler was placed in a calico bag, the opening of which was
sewn closely round her throat by the same gentlemen. No
sooner was Miss Fowler placed partially behind the curtain
of the cabinet, with her knees in view of the circle, in a good
light, than an object resembling a hand was thrust through
the curtain, and the objects placed on a little table near her ||
were moved and rattled. Great activity continued to be i
apparent behind the curtain by the ringing of bells, blowing !
of whistles, and violent movements of the small table, |
which was more than once thrown completely down, and the i
objects scattered all about the floor of the cabinet. Various |
members of the circle entered the cabinet to replace the j •
objects on the table, and each testified to Miss Fowler being j
still in bonds, with the bag closely sewn round her neck. I
All could see that she had not moved from her seat. These i
manifestations being entirely satisfactory, so far as to prove i
that the medium could not possibly have had any part in [j
producing them, it was unanimously agreed that Miss I I
Fowler be released from the close custody of the bag, and | I
allowed to sit with her arms still sewn together behind, I i
and further secured by means of tape to the back of her I j
chair. A few of the manifestations occurred as before, but I |
were much weaker. A dark seance was then tried. A j j
heavy table was partially raised at one end, and there were I I
slight movements of bells and other objects which had jlj
been placed on the floor under the table, but nothing to ill
compare in force with what took place while the medium
was under strict test conditions in the light.
The sitters present were the Rev. W. Miall, Mr. James
Taylor, Mr. Outhbert Yesey, Mrs. Desmond FitzGerald, Mr.
J. F. Collingwood, Mrs. Lewis, Mr. H. J. Hood, sMrs. E.
Dixon, Dr. 0. Carter Blake, and myself.
E. Ejslingbury,
Secretary to the British National Association
June 20tli, 1876. of Spintualists.
AN OCCULTIST FUNERAL CEREMONY.
From “ The Banner of Light.u
The funeral of Baron de Palm, according to ancient Egyptian
rites, took place at the Masonic Temple, New York City,
Sunday afternoon, May 28th. The deceased Baron, who
came to this country fifteen years ago, had expressed a wish
that no Christian priest or minister should be allowed to
take part in his obsequies. They were conducted by the
Theosophical Society of New York, of which the deceased
was a member. Only those having tickets, about 1,500 in
all, were admitted to the building. The coffin containing
the body was placed on a dais on the platform. On the
coffin were seven lights arranged in the shape of a triangle.
Col. H. S. Olcott acted as master, and conducted the cere¬
monies. With him were six others to make responses.
They were habited in long black robes. After brief inter¬
vals of music the questions and responses began. They con¬
sisted of questions and answers from the ancient Egyptian
liturgy in regard to the nature of God, the human soul, and
a future state of existence.
During the questions and answers incense was burned,
and a figure of a serpent, twisted round a wooden T, stood
beside the coffin. Colonel Olcott delivered a pertinent
address on the nature of Theosophism, and said the deceased
Baron, after a long life in courts and a career of ambition,
meeting nothing in the creeds to satisfy his inquiries in
regard to a future state, found consolation in Theosophy.
After the rites were over, the remains were removed to a
vault in the Lutheran cemetery, and will, it is said, be
cremated as soon as permission can be obtained from the
authorities. The body was embalmed soon after death.
Lectuee by Mr. Barkas.—On Sunday evening last Mr. T. P. Barkas,
F.G.S., lectured at the Freemasons’ Old Hall,''Weir’s-court, Newcastle-
on-Tyne, on “ The Mysterious in Nature.” He dealt with most of the
problematical subjects of science, making reference to our inability to
define space and time. If both were infinite, was matter also infinite ?
What were atoms? What were molecules ? What did we know of the
essential attributes of light, heat, gravitation, electricity ? The number¬
less theories of life itself proved that its fundamental nature was un¬
known to us; a great deal was known of the laws of nature, but this
.. knowledge had been accumulated by continuous observation of the facts,
11 and it was the same with the phenomena of Spiritualism, but even
'! those who had attended, say hundreds of seances, admitted that its
phenomena were essentially incomprehensible. The lecture was listened
to with attention by a respectable audience, and at the close Mr. Mould
rose, and, in the name of the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists, proposed
a vote of thanks to Mr. Barkas. After a few remarks from Mr. Arm¬
strong and Mr. Kersey the meeting separated.
Library of the National Association of Spiritualists.—Mr. D. H.
Wilson, M.A., has just placed on loan at the above library the following
valuable collection:—Grote’s Plato, 3 vols.; Sir W. Hamilton’s Lec¬
tures on Metaphysics; Figuier’s Terre avant le Deluge; Kant’s Philo¬
sophy ; Descartes’ Discourse on Method; Schwegler’s History of Philo¬
sophy ; Whewell’s Elements of Morality; Robertson’s Sermons, 3 vols.;
D. Stewart’s Outlines of Morality ; Abercrombie’s Intellectual Powers ;
Bain’s Mental Science, and Senses and Intellect; Aristotle’s Ethics;
W. J. Fox’s Sermons; Conway’s Earthward Pilgrimage; Helen
Burnside’s Poems; Bastiat’s Political Harmonies; Locke’s Human
Understanding ; Drew’s Immateriality of the Soul, and Essays ; Vance
Smith’s Bible and Popular Theology; Martineau’s Christian En¬
deavours, and Studies of Christianity ; Dennys’ Life Lectures; Reichen-
bach’s Animal Magnetism; J. S. Mill’s Utilitarianism; Whiston’s
Josephus; Life of Adam Clarke; Nature and Art; Chunder Sen’s
Lectures; Young’s Christ of History; Cicero’s Orations; Adam
Smith’s Wealth of Nations; Milman’s History of Christianity, 3 vols.;
St. Domingue’s Animal Magnetism ; Mansel’s Metaphysics ; Mon¬
taigne’s Essays; Cousin’s History of Modern Philosophy; Channing’s
Complete Works; Cary’s Plato; Hughes’s Horace; Priestley’s History
of the Corruptions of Christianity; Peebles’s Year Book of Spirit¬
ualism ; Lamb’s Elia and Eliana ; Halliday’s Everyday Papers;
Argyll’s Beign of Law; Beethoven’s Letters; Gillingham’s Seat of
the Soul; Fawcett’s Economic Position of the Working Man; Cros-
land’s Apparitions; Howitt’s History of the Supernatural: and
Townshend’s Facts in Mesmerism.
June 23, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 295
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday, last week, the closing fortnightly meeting of this 1.V
session of the Psychological Society was held at 11, Chandos-street, i)
Cavendish-square, London, under the presidency of the Rev. W. K
Stainton-Moses, M.A. I)
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed. i (
A REVELATION IN A DREAM. I)
The Hon. Secretary, Mr. F. K. Munton, read the following commu- | (
nication from Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood :— j)
“Four or five years ago, Miss Phillips, of Church Bank, Welshpool, f)
had a deaf and dumb maid whom she much valued. The girl fell into j \
bad health, and the doctor who was consulted recommending change, |)
Miss Phillips proposed to send the girl to her brother, explaining to |(
her that she should come back again after three weeks. The girl, K
however, was very unwilling to go, expressing a strong wish to remain ])
with Miss Phillips. The morning she was to have gone to her friends k
she handed over a tray she was taking upstairs to a little girl, and was (
not seen afterwards. Miss Phillips was much alarmed at her disap- ;)
pearance. She and her friends searched the house all over, including j <
the cellar in which she was afterwards found. A reach of the canal j S
was let off, and the neighbouring woods searched. The girl disap- |)
peared on Tuesday morning. Nothing was heard of her all Wednes- |(
day and Thursday, but on Friday morning the superintendent of police, j j
Strefford, called with a companion, saying he had an impression on his |)
mind that she was concealed in the house, and begged to be allowed to j(
make search. On Miss Phillips consenting, Strefford, who had never j>
been in the house before, walked straight to the door of the cellar i)
stairs, aud went down with his companion and Miss Phillips’ servant, js
Within the cellar they found the girl, jammed fast in an open flue, j)
directly beneath the fireplace in the room above, the ashes of which it j j
was meant to receive, while the cinders were shut off by a perforated i {
plate. The girl, however, some time previously, had stopped up these j)
holes, otherwise she would have been set on fire by the sparks falling | <
through. The opening from the flue to the cellar was not above i)
eighteen inches high, and everyone was astonished how the girl could j j
have forced herself up. She had drawn some carpeting after her j(
(which had been used to stop up the flue) so as to conceal the lower h
part of her legs, leaving only the end of her feet exposed, and this had |)
hindered Miss Phillips discovering her when she searched the cellar. !(
They had to get bricklayer’s tools and to dig down the bricks before j)
they could get her out, but when she was released she walked upstairs 1)
of herself, although she had been fasting in that terribly constrained im- |
prisonment from Tuesday to Friday morning. When Strefford was in the I
cellar with Miss Phillips’ maid he told her that he had come in conse- ! -
quence of a dream he had had, showing where the girl was. His son,
to whom I wrote for information (Strefford himself being dead) says— | J
‘ I remember the case to which you refer quite well. My father awoke j <
my mother in the middle of the night, and said,—I know where that |<
poor girl is. She is up a chimney in the cellar belonging to the house j]
which she lives in,’ and Mrs. Strefford told Miss Phillips he could not I)
rest afterwards until he got up at five o’clock.
“ The poor girl afterwards tried to strangle herself, and was sent to i)
an asylum, where she is now doing very well.
“ The above was taken down within an hour after I heard it from j j
Miss Phillips, to whom I applied in order to clear up certain difficulties !)
in the story as I had previously heard it. “H. Wedgwood. | \
“31, Queen Anne-street, May 29, 1876.’’
The Chairman, in the course of his remarks, said that he could not | j
understand the philosophy of prophetic dreams. Mr. Gordon had b
asked him at the last meeting, how did he know that an experience of 1 j
his own was a vision and not a dream ? He (Mr. Moses) in his own j<
mind drew a very clear distinction between the two. Dreams he con- j)
aidered to be of a fanciful nature ; in them all kinds of fantastic events ij
were seen without any surprise, and they rarely revealed anything j)
which could really have happened. Visions, on the other hand, were j)
clear and distinct, and in them events which actually occurred had i]
sometimes been witnessed.
Mr. Coffin wished to know whether the police officer told the servant j)
before or after the discovery that he called in consequence of a dream j j
If he made no mention of the dream at the time, the whole story !)
rested upon the testimony of the son, given several years after the j)
event, so that many errors might have crept into the narrative.
The Secretary replied that the officer told the girl in the cellar that
he came in consequence of a dream.
Mr. Coffin remarked, in relation to what had been said by the j(
Chairman, that he thought that the knowledge of a dream was con- ij
fined to the recollection of it while awake, when perhaps only discon- i
nected portions could be remembered, and that the reason why no |(
surprise was felt at the time may have been that the dream itself was i)
not so absurd as it appeared to be when viewed by the light of recol- j
lection. Such things as useful dreams were on record? Would the j(
Chairman class them as visions ? . jj
The Chairman replied that he considered a dream to be an incoherent j)
something which recurred when the body was asleep, and in general !\
when it was in a bad state of health. Visions were coherent, and the ij
observer sometimes saw them when awake ; or he was thrown during j j
the day into an abnormal state of trance, when he saw things which \(
were a distinct representation to the mind of what might and what |j
.sometimes did normally occur. Dreams were usually absurd, and l<
connected with sleep, not with trance or with partial trance. He j(
thought that a vision was due to the quickening of the natural spiritual j j
powers, which in the waking state were in abeyance.
THE YORK GHOST AGAIN. jj
Mr. W. Volckman read from the Medium newspaper a letter from jj
Mr, Close, of Pembroke College, Oxford, setting forth that there was 1 *
written evidence that this ghost was in existence at least 100 years
ago, and that if, as the vicar asserted to be the case, the appearance
is caused by the inhabitants of the vicarage strolling about in the
garden, it was at any rate a marvellous coincidence that for the last
100 or 150 years those inhabitants have consisted of a lady, a nurse,
and a child, and that these three, or one or other of them, had been in
the habit of regularly taking a walk almost every Sunday at the same
hour, in the same direction, and for the same duration of time; for the
ghost was most methodical and regular in all these particulars. But
supposing for the sake of argument that these coincidences did take
place, and the family did promenade on a Sunday morning instead of
going to church, still no one inside the church could see them. Birds
flying close to the glass were dimly seen as objects dark in colour and
indistinct in form, the stained glass utterly preventing a better or
clearer view. Was it then likely that a figure should be seen more or
less sharp in outline, and of a dazzling white ! Even supposing that
these figures could be seen through the glass, they could not possibly
be in the vicarage garden or in any other piece of ground, for a tall,
and very dense, holly tree growing close to the window precluded all
possibility of such a view.
The Chairman said that he also had received a letter on the same
subject. He wished to know how a person walking in the vicarage
garden could be seen through a holly tree. If a man could be seen
through the tree, it would be as wonderful as the passage of solid
matter through solid matter. Perhaps the vicar was afraid of people
coming to his church to see ghosts.
The Secretary suggested that some member of the Psychological
Society should go to York during the autumn recess, and inquire into
and report upon the whole matter.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE HINDOOS.
Mr. Tagore, a Brahmin, next read the second part of a paper upon
the psychology of the Hindoos.
The Chairman remarked that in his paper Mr. Tagore had avoided
the dangerous quicksands of theology, but that in several instances he
had been obliged to approach very near thereto. The language spoken
on the banks of the Thames was at root the same as that spoken on the
banks of the Ganges, and both were descended from the same family,
therefore much might be learnt by looking into the psychology of the
religious history of India. His friend, Gerald Massey, he believed
looked upon Egypt as the cradle of many religious ideas now prevalent
in England, but he (the chairman) thought that most students traced
their origin to upper India.
The Honorary Secretary remarked that Mr. Tagore had read a
most eloquent paper, and that, although he had avoided theology, the
paper so nearly assumed a theological character that, practically, he
kept very close to the boundary laid down by the rule of the society,
which prohibited theological subjects. That society was established to
study the functions of the soul, and to supplement the discussions with
something like practical evidence. Mr. Tagore had spoken of the ideas
of the Hindoos as to the nature of the soul, but had not said whether
they had any practical evidence on the subject.
Mr. Thomas Shorter agreed with the Secretary. Mr. Tagore had
said that some of the Hindoos worshipped the spirits of the departed.
Could he give any authentic facts upon that head ?
Mr. Coffin remarked that Mr. Tagore had said much about the national
feelings and ideas of a people, but what was wanted to be known was
—Could they prove those ideas ? He did not think that they could get
much in the direction of proof from a people who, as Mr. Tagore had said,
made little distinction between the natural and the supernatural; from
such a people little was to be expected in the way of carefully tabu¬
lated scientific facts.
Mr. Tagore was obliged to the various members for speaking so
freely, and in such a friendly spirit. Psychology meant the functions
of the soul, and how were they to learn on this head except by a study
of the psychological ideas of nations ? They could not avoid the sub¬
ject of religion ; they should study how the law of development
worked and produced new forms of religion out of those which pre¬
ceded them. To exclude the study of religion altogether from a psycho¬
logical society was impossible; at the same time the society might keep
free from all dogmatic questions. The object of his paper was to point
out great ethnical laws, one of which was that monotheistic ideas had
a powerful influence in breaking up caste.
The Chairman thought that there were practical points upon which
Mr. Tagore might be able to throw light. One would not go to a
transcendental people for hard facts; still, if reports were to be be¬
lieved, such facts were numerous in India. For instance, the fakirs
were said to have elaborated the powers of the human spirit so as to
be able to use them at will, and that was a great point to attain.
THE PROGRESS OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The Hon. Secretary said that in the year 1875, many persons laughed
at the idea of the new Psychological Society gaining a hundred mem¬
bers by the close of the year 1876. Although they were only half-way
through the year, the society had already eighty members, and he did
not despair of seeing the number increased to a hundred by the close.
The society did not wish the readers of papers to be restricted in their
utterances ; he called attention to this point because Mr. Tagore seemed
to think that there was some such tendency ; all he had intended to
say was that Mr. Tagore had gone rather away from what the society
wanted. Throughout the session the attendance at the regular meet¬
ings of the society had been very good, in fact better than had been
seen at almost any other newly established organisation of the kind.
All along the attendance had been better than at the old-established
Anthropological Institute. The papers read had been of an interesting
character, and the society was to be congratulated on that account, for
it had to deal with difficult subjects surrounded by prejudice. Next
session he hoped that they would have papers in advance of those
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 23, 1876.
which had already been read. An investigating committee had been
appointed, and it was not his duty just yet to make a report of what
had been done, but it had already had before it several persons who
alleged themselves to possess medial powers, and the committee would,
in course of time, report the results. It had some little difficulty in
making engagements with such persons, and he wished those of the
members who read journals connected with Spiritualism would let the
society know if they saw anything which it would be proper for the
committee to investigate. If such information were given they would
be much obliged. The committee was giving fair play all round, seek¬
ing only for evidence and facts, and when the members obtained such
facts they would fearlessly report the result to the public, let the con¬
sequences be what they would. (Applause.)
The proceedings then closed,
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
m. leymarie’s prison.
We learn from Mr. O’Sullivan the following particulars
respecting Leymarie’s imprisonment, which commenced on
the 22nd April:—
Prisoners consigned to that prison (which happens to have
the name of La Sante, though not being at all what is called
a maison de santd) have the option of living in common with
the general herd, or of accepting solitary confinement in a
cell. In the latter case their term of imprisonment is
abridged by one-fourth. Ley marie, of course, elected for a
cell, so that his term will be for nine months instead of
twelve. They wear a coarse, dark grey prison suit, and are
not allowed even their own linen. The Director is well dis¬
posed to treat him with all personal consideration compatible
with the rules, so that he can have books and writing
materials, though letters cannot be sent from the prison
without passing under inspection. He has been allotted the
task of making match-boxes, of which the weekly produc¬
tion is 28 gross, or 4,032. A walk in a narrow courtyard is
allowed for an hour a day. His wife visits him once a week
(Monday), with the separation of an iron grating, in what
is called the parloir defaveur. The Revue Spirite is now in
charge of a friend, M. Bourges, a retired captain in the
army. M. Leymarie’s cell (No. 83, 4th Division) is a stone-
vaulted one, of about twelve by nine feet, furnished with a
chair, a small table, and a very hard bed. His friends had
hoped that after the necessary formality of constituting
himself a prisoner, they could promptly obtain his transfer
to a maison de sante for diseases of the eyes, inasmuch
as he is in urgent need of an operation for the removal
of a cataract from his right eye, which threatens also his
left. But it turned out that the physician of the prison is
himself also an oculist, and has fitted up a room in the
infirmary for diseases of the eye, so that it is presumed he
would be little disposed to allow such a case to pass away
out of his own hands. Whether Madame Leymarie will
consent to her husband’s case being treated by any other
than a known eminent specialist we do not yet know. Her
judgment and the general counsel of his friends is that the
largely signed petitions for a pardon should not be presented
yet awhile. In order to have such mitigations—in the way
of food, for instance, and of indulgence in regard to the task
of labour—necessary to make the prison life endurable, as
in all prisons, money, money, money is indispensable. The
general rule of the French newspapers is to allow double
salaries to an editor in prison for a press offence, and per¬
haps this may be arranged for the benefit of M. Leymarie’s
wife and children.
A Seance in Portsmouth.—The Rev. Mr. Colley, Curate of
Portsmouth, says:—“ Mrs. Bassett favoured us 'with a sitting here the
other evening, when we had very admirable manifestations through her
mediumship. The direct voice of James Lombard addressed us, and
dwelt at some length on many interesting points of spiritual philosophy.
The spirit voice also of Mr. Robinson spoke to us; and a recognised
spirit, and near relative of two ladies present with us, audibly con¬
versed with them, and, by various tests beyond the knowledge of the
medium, proved her identity and spiritual individuality. Spirit lights,
also, large and beautiful, hovered about, and luminous points, as of
star-dust, flashed hither and thither; unseen presences were felt around
us, and touches from spirit hands recalled to our remembrance the fact,
too often forgotten when not ignorantly denied, that the natural is upon
the near confines of the spiritual, from which latter into the former the
higher intelligences may protrude, and for a time, when harmony,
brotherhood, and love obtain, reinvest themselves with matter by
means of the occult forces of nature, and manifest their presence unto
us, proving life’s continuity and the immortality of the soul.”
11
I (j [Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
I j! to those of this journal and its readers."]
j j THE EDUCATION OF SPIRITUALISTS’ CHILDREN.
i jj. Sir,—Should your admirable suggestions for a better system of
||| education for the children of Spiritualists ever be carried out—as I
| (| trust they soon may—there will, I think, be many novel ideas upon the
||j same subject, which it would be worth while to consider,
m One is the education of boys and girls together. I believe this plan
|jj is adopted in America to some extent, and is found to answer well; and
||| certainly every one’s experience will incline him to admit that such
| j! association renders boys more refined and pure-minded. Every domestic
iji circle is a natural school, and there boys and girls are brought up
{?! together with marked advantage to each. Wherever large congrega-
j | tions of men live together without female society, the result—in their
11| habits and thoughts—is bad. Hence the low moral tone which prevails
| i amongst soldiers, sailors, and even (if conversation be any guide) in
j | higher circles of society where men alone do congregate.
111 I quite agree with your remarks about the neglect of scientific educa-
irj tion, and the too exclusive devotion to dead languages. A profound
; j i knowledge of Greek and Latin is considered of far more value than an
i j | acquaintance with French, German, or physiology. When the student
! I comes out into the world, he finds the subjects on which he has spent
j j | the best years of his youth are quite useless to him in everyday life,
i 11 and though an educated gentleman—according to English notions—he
i |! is unable to converse with any foreigner in his own tongue, and knows
Sji little or nothing of the literature and past history of any Continental
ijj nation; though almost every educated German is able to read and
11 j speak our language well. Those who have been bred in the atmosphere
| j | of our universities are naturally biassed in favour of a system of learning
j j | which those places have been wedded to for generations past, and they
i j j tell us that the course of study is an admirable discipline for the mind,
j j and excellent as a course of mental training.
I j | It seems to me that, in studying Latin and Greek authors, we should
| j j do so either for the sake of the beauty of style, or the beauty of the
iji ideas. Now, as regards either of these advantages, I very much
| j j question whether the same results cannot be gained equally well by
| (i a study of the best English and German authors, or the best trans-
j j| lations of these same classical writers. The English literature alone is
i | j too vast for a man to make himself thoroughly acquainted with in a
iji lifetime, to say nothing of German literature. This being so, the
i ji study of obsolete languages must be at the sacrifice of other lan-
i j j guages and literature that would be of infinitely more practical value
i j j in after life.
j j i I recently called on a friend in one of the colleges at Oxford who
| i has taken high honours, and, in the course of conversation, elicited the
jjl confession that he did not know the difference between an elm and
ji a lime-tree ! And as to physiology, he admitted himself to be
j| equally at sea. It is certainly a great blot on our present system of
ji education that it entirely ignores a knowledge of common things—
j j matters of everyday use—of which we all feel ashamed to confess our
j I ignorance.
ji I would suggest that the students of the college of the future should
ji be instructed as much as possible by ocular demonstration, rather than
ji from books. If some of our leading manufacturers, iron-founders, ma-
j| chinists, joiners, and others, were to throw open their works to the
j| inspection of students periodically, and erect galleries or other suitable
ji standpoints whence all the operations could be witnessed by and
j j explained to the visitors, it would, I think, soon become a popular
jj mode of acquiring useful and interesting knowledge, from which at
j j present—for want of such conveniences—the public are excluded,
j j Every child is endowed by nature with special gifts, and an aptitude
jj for particular pursuits. It should, therefore, be the aim of the teacher
j to discover these peculiarities, and develops those qualities of the
j j student which he is most likely to shine in. If there be any truth in
!' j phrenology, it would not be unwise to call in its aid to determine the
course of instruction that each boy should receive, instead of casting
them all in the same mould as at present.
These disjointed suggestions I send for what they are worth. I
trust that the discussion may bring forth some practical result.
Fredk. A. Binney.
i Manchester, June 15th, 1876.
Sir,—Your leading article of June 9th, on “ The Education of the
Children of Spiritualists,” has just come under my notice, and as a
reader of spiritual literature of fully fifty years’ standing, perhaps you
(j will bear with a few observations from my pen upon the same subject,
j i even if I should choose the language of experience rather than that of
) j argument.
I confess I do sometimes feel shame for young speakers at public
i meetings, between twenty and thirty years of age, when they begin
)j pompously to talk of “speaking from experience” before people old
j | enough to be their grandfathers; and I have heard so much presump-
j i tion uttered in this way during the last forty years, that I have felt a
j | great backwardness in assuming the position of a teacher from experi-
j i ence. But I now begin to think that if ever it be allowable to speak in
jj this tone, and from this ground, my turn is almost come. A half
i century of living experience should have furnished some fund to speak
[ I from.
>| I will then say I was glad to see the heading of your article; but the
11 leisurely tone of its language I did not equally approve—“ One advan-
j tage of the consideration of plans before the time arrives for putting
i them in force,” &c. Have Spiritualists no children now who want
| educating ? and are other children to he left out of the question ?
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
June 2$, 1876.
The only education my eaily days had afforded to them was picked
up at a Church of England Sunday-school, in addition to what a hand-
loom silk weaver’s home afforded, which was not much. But I found
the Sunday-school education before-named of such an ««-spiritual
nature, that when my first-born son came into the world I soon shifted
my place of abode about six miles, in order that, when he was old
enough, he might have the advantage, of which I had so keenly felt the
want, of attending a Sunday school where Spiritualism was professed
and taught (mind I don’t say Spiritism). It did not occur to me then
that I was one of the few who by exertion should have to prepare a
school by the time my son was old enough. However, providence so
ordered it that I was soon brought back sufficiently near to the place I
went from, to begin to co-operate with a few other friends to raise a
Sunday school for the education of both our own and others’ children,
which school is flourishing, and teaching the second and third genera¬
tions now.
But permit me here to say, that to me one of the strongest evidences
of the disorderly character of the bulk of “modern Spiritualism,” so-
called, is its manifestly selfish character. Swedenborg does say, “ The
angels in heaven are happy in proportion to their usefulness ; ’’ but it is
usefulness to others, from the love of it, not to themselves and their
own families ! * Now, my deepest grief over many friends whom I have
had, who have become absorbed in the pursuit of spirit manifestations,
has all along been, that they have become so taken with what has a
mere phenomenal self-interest, or clan-interest, as to lose all wide, deep,
clear regard for an earnest endeavour to advance upon the solid founda¬
tion of divine and spiritual truth, both as regards their own spiritual
states, and the instruction in spiritual things of those who before looked
up to them for such; at least, so it has seemed.
Should the much-to-be-desired change come soon, and they begin to
awake to a lively spiritual interest in the instruction and advancement
both of themselves, their families, and the helpless, the fatherless around
them, I cannot help thinking, Mr. Editor, that a more hasty march will
have to be taken than the leisurely one which you have set out with.
And I am much mistaken if the rising generation ten years hence will not
feel very keenly and bitterly the lost time which has thoughtlessly been
loitered away in materialistic and other spiritualistic phenomenal pur¬
suits, during the last twenty years, by those who should have been
steadily marching up, in works of real use, towards the stature of
angel-men in this world ot preparation for the rewards and uses of
angels proper, in the realms of the divine kingdom of angelic uses
above. T. Robinson.
Newtonheath, June 13th, 1876.
THE DAWN OP A NEW EASTERN RELIGION.
Sir,—An article headed Babism appeared in this month’s Revue
Anglo-Franqaise, and, I presume, a short extract from its contents would
not be without interest to the readers of The Spiritualist, particularly at
the present time, when the agitations in the East are among the chief
topics of the day.
It appears that a new religious sect has since 1843 been organising
itself in Central Asia, and has now become a powerful opponent to
Mohammed’s adherents. Fortunately for the progress of the world, the
founder of this new creed, Mirza Ali-Mohammed, seems to be greatly
in advance of both Judaism and Islamism, having neither imitated the
intolerance and self-righteousness of the former, nor the fatalistic creed
of the latter, which has fostered so much hatred and conceit in its
believers.
This, of course, must be attributed to the character of its founder,
who,-when only eighteen years of age, began his missionary work, for
which he was not only qualified by his natural genius, but also by his
earnest inquiry into the Holy Scriptures, the Koran, and by discus¬
sions with the Jews of his country.
He is described as a young man of imposing aspect and charming
features, gaining the admiration of his hearers as well by his personal
attractions as the charm of his eloquence. His life is in strict accord¬
ance with his doctrines, which are remarkable for their tenderness,
humanity, and sympathy with earthly needs.
After having paid a visit to Mecca, he published on his return a com¬
mentary on a part of the Koran, which audacity of course was a total
breach of ancient customs, the much more so because he therein intro¬
duced some novel doctrines. From that time he began to preach in
public, and with enormous success, and adopting his first religious title,
he declared himself to be the “ Bab,’’ i.e., the “ Door,” through which
one arriveth at the knowledge of God.
The Islam priests could now no longer ignore the agitation caused by
this young preacher, so after having been ignominously defeated by him
at a public conference, arranged by themselves, they did, as all priests
have done in similar cases, appealed to the Civil power. Bab and his
followers now suffered persecution, and this proved the beginning of the
spread of Babism. Missionaries were sent to Ispahan, to Teheran,
to the north and west districts, and everywhere they met with grand
success, though constantly persecuted by the clergy and the king’s
agents, until at last (1847) they decided to take up arms. The war now
raged almost everywhere in Persia with alternate successes and defeats
of the reformers. Finally Bab was captured, and put to death as he
was trying to make his escape.
The Government now considered the unpleasant question settled for
ever, thus resembling all other governments on whom the eloquent
lessons of history and experience invariably seem to be wasted. The
new religion, however, did not depend on the presence of Bab, three
quarters of his adherents never having seen him, and another Bab was
nominated, to whom the believers declared the crown of Persia legiti¬
mately to belong (1852).
* We quoted the paragraph in this unselfish sense.—Ed.
The persecutions continued, and the punishment of the captives was
beyond measure cruel. Women and children fearlessly marched to their
execution, and seemed to rival each other in hopeful and courageous re¬
signation, singing this verse:—<
“ Yes truly we have come from God, and now return to Him.”
These spectacles, far from ruining the prospects of the new sect, gained
them many secret partisans, and the Bab, who now resides in Bagdad,
is only waiting for an opportunity to conquer by arms the Persia whose
faith he has already subdued. Perhaps we shall witness one day the
ruin of the Persian Dynasty, and see Mohammed’s religion defeated in
the countries of Central Asia.
Babism is a return to the ancient Pantheism, presented in a novel and
attractive form, and when Bab said, “ God is the absolute Being,
beside whom nothing exists, all beings are but feeble emanations, but
emanations from His omnipotence; on the day of judgment you shall
be united with Him,” he only reawakened and restored the old senti¬
ment that has been dormant for centuries.
Its adherents include the foremost of Persian clergy and dignitaries,
as well as philosophers and poets. Even the obstinate Jew has been
converted. Babism has much of the Oriental form of worship, but it
teaches charity, peace, and monogamy, in so far at least that it does not
approve of bigamy or polygamy. It has a tendency to lay a foundation
for family life, so little known in the East, and gives to woman a higher
and nobler sphere of action.
A sect which in ten years caused such a revolution in a country
where neither railways, letter post, or newspapers existed, and that has
taken such a great step in advance of other orientals, must needs im¬
press us with a hope of a better and greater future for the eastern
countries, and we have merely to add—better late than never.
J. A. Beer.
Brighton.
j > A VISION OF THE DEATH OF THE SULTAN OF TURRET—IS THE VISION TRUST-
| /1 WORTHY ?
jjj Sir,—Having attended a series of seances at the house of Mrs.
|H Nicoll, of 57, Els wick East-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and had some
| (| remarkable clairvoyant tests through the mediumship of Miss Jessie
i 11 Nicoll, which tests are a proof of the reliability of her power, I wish
\\\ to relate the following, which occurred on Wednesday night, the 14th
| (• instant, at nine o’clock.
The sitters numbered six, including the medium; the room was in total
in darkness. The medium described a male spirit-form, with black beard,
Hi and a turban on his head, and something bright in his hand. He
: j; commenced to bare his arm, but disappeared quickly. In a few seconds
j}j the same form appeared, sitting in the interior of a room, richly
I (I furnished, and the door wide open ; presently another form entered the
111 room, and locked the door after him. He had on regimentals, a dagger
j|l and pistol by his side. He approached the other form, and, producing
i (i a bright cup, offered him something to drink, which the latter refused;
j I whereupon he drew his dagger and, brandishing it above his head,
M forced him to drink the contents of the cup. The medium now described
j j him as swooning away, and the other produced a pair of scissors, and,
j>j removing the outer garment from the insensible form, commenced to
;) i lacerate one of his arms, close to the shoulder. After doing this he
i drew his dagger, and stabbed him deeply in the breast. Wiping the
j>! dagger upon the wounded one’s garment; he afterwards replaced it in
In his belt, and, putting the scissors into the hand of the unconscious form
j (j left the room quickly.
j > | At this point the medium manifested signs of much horror at the
|(| sight, and, turning away her head, exclaimed; “ He is covered with
I j blood!” and when she ventured to look again the scene was fading
;): away. The medium was next controlled roughly; but could not speak,
If j but, by other means, gave the name of Abdul-Aziz, but declined to give
|(| the name of his assassin. The description of everything was given in a
ij! most graphic manner, as they were presented to the vision of the
;) | medium while in a normal condition.
If you have space in your valuable journal to insert the above, it will
i|j afford much pleasure to the sitters who were present, and who wished
|(| me to write this letter. Possibly some light may be thrown on the fate
j(! of the late Sultan, the manner of his death being as yet a mystery to the
| | public. William. Bowman.
HI 49, Pine-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, June 15th, 1876.
DEMATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
Sir,—Your speculations of some weeks back tending to explain cer¬
tain physical phenomena at spiritual seances are, I think, more satisfac¬
tory than many that are put forward to account for “ materialisations,”
and seem to account for many of the suspicious circumstances, in the
shape of facial and other resemblances between the medium and the
spirit form, so often noticed at public circles.
I have for some time been tolerably convinced that the controlling
intelligences at many of these exhibitions use the actual bodily organs
of their mediums while entranced, but it may be that duplicates, as it
were, of their organs, or indeed of whole forms, are produced by
“ abstraction of energy” in the way you suggest, and that what we see
as the spirit form is really part of the medium’s organism, abstracted
and rebuilt for the purpose of being seen or handled, and bearing
naturally the likeness of the original. This view is, I think
strengthened by the peculiar fact I have frequently observed, but never
had explained, that the temperature, or bodily heat of the medium, is
frequently subject to violent alternations during a seance. I have
several times held one of Mr. Williams’ hands during a sitting for his
ordinary physical manifestations, and have observed, and called his
attention to, extremes of heat and cold felt in his hand, often within a
few seconds, and more than once repeated during the space of an ordi-
298
tHE SPIRITUALISE
June 28, 1876..
nary sitting. He has never offered any explanation of this to me; but
I have little doubt the peculiarity is to be accorded to the fact of the
partial dematerialisations of his hands at such times, for the purpose i
of forming the “ spirit ’’ hands, whose tangible existence forms one of
the prominent features of these seances. I have felt several hands of
different sizes and temperatures almost simultaneously, and have heard
sitters describing different hands touching them at the same time, I
showing that a large expenditure of the medium’s “ energy ” must have
occurred, and fully accounting for a death-like temporary coldness in
his hands. The same would apply under similar requirements to all
parts of the body, and may explain the necessity of the trance, so
generally the accompaniment of a fully materialised form, because
sufficient vital force may have to be abstracted in the latter case to j
reduce the medium to that vitally feeble state only representable by a
trance. This utilising the medium’s organism would also, of course,
account for the similarity of form and feature frequently observed at |
materialising seances, as it is probably simpler to rebuild the elements
into their original shape than to fashion them anew, and I now begin |
to see a reasonable way out of several difficulties that have troubled me
as an investigator.
I. have seen moulds of hands produced apparently under tolerably
satisfactory test conditions so exactly like those of the medium, that one’s
faith in their genuineness as “ spirit hands ” was sadly shaken. Still \
they may have been produced in the manner you suggest, and if so are
as much entitled to be considered “spiritual” as any other pheno¬
menon that passes by that name.
Investigations, and speculations also, are needed to form the mysteries i
we are endeavouring to examine, into a systematised philosophy, and I j
hope that during the next few years something like a scientific basis
will be evolved out of the present abundance of unexplained facts.
There are sufficient stubborn facts and varied theories to satisfy any |
real student of nature or science, and I do not imagine that any
bigotry, stupidity, or scorn, can long delay a recognition of those !
occult laws that seem really to form the foundation of all science and
nature. W. H.
WRITING- MEDIUMSIIIP.
Sir,—I am very desirous to develops as a writing medium, my spirit
friends having repeatedly assured me that I possess that phase of
mediumship, but I cannot as yet satisfy myself that such is the case. I
am greatly puzzled (1) because I can write at all times, my hands appa¬
rently being as much under spirit control at one time as another; (2)
because I can never write anything but what appears to come from my
own brain; and (3) because I can never write unless I keep my thoughts
fixed on what I am doing, and follow the spelling of each word. After
writing a few words my hand generally begins to wander about the paper
and describe spiral curves, or to scribble.
I should esteem it a great favour, and at the same time it would be of
great interest to many of your readers, if your learned contributor
“ M.A., Oxon ” would give in your columns an account of his early
experience as a writing medium, and under what conditions he now gets j
such valuable communications as appear under the heading of “ Spirit
Teachings.” Omega.
Brighton.
THE TJRIM AND THUMMIM.
Sir,*—Can any of your readers give me any information regarding
the two remarkable appendages called Urim and Thummim, which were
worn in or about the breastplate of the Jewish High Priest, as described
in Leviticus. These curious objects were evidently in some manner
consulted when information regarding various things was desired to
be had.
We find, for example, that King Saul was, when near the close of his
career, denied all communication through the Urim, and in consequence
had recourse to the woman of Endor, the record of which is found in
1st Samuel, 28th chapter. I have looked at such works as I had access
to, but have failed to get anything but the most meagre allusion to the
matter. I think the subject one which is well worth examination in
your pages, because of the marked and legitimate place this style of con¬
sultation evidently had in ancient Israel, and the clear though brief
allusion to it in the sacred books.
I should be glad of any information on the point, and of the names
of such works on ancient religions as might throw light upon the
question. G. G.
Brighton.
occult reminiscences.
Sir,—Taken by themselves, the experiences recorded by Charles
Dickens and Lord Garvagh, and quoted in a recent Spiritualist, are
certainly suggestive of pre-existence. They were cases of simple
recognition of a place and a song, which might have been seen and
heard in a former life. But viewed in connection with other experi¬
ences of the same class—familiar to so many, that I should think two
out of every three I have asked have owned to them—they lose their
significance. Though I am quite unsusceptible of sensible spiritual
impressions, this particular experience has been of frequent occurrence
with me from earliest childhood. It cannot properly be called re¬
miniscence, because the sense of recognition usually comprises such a
variety of minute details, not of place, but of incidents, as, upon any
calculation of probabilities, could hardly have co-existed before in the
same experience. “ In an instant,” to quote a passage from my note¬
book, written several years ago, “ usually upon the most trivial occa¬
sions, that which is passing is apparently recognised as having occurred
before in our experience in its most minute particulars. A friend
relates to us something he has just witnessed, and, as he speaks, we
know that he is telling us that which he has told us before, in the very
same words, in the very same manner, standing as he now stands. We
raise our eyes from a book, or walk across a room, and in a moment, as if
we had stepped into an enchanted ring, that which we do, or see, or
think is converted into a memory which we cannot trace, which we know
to be untraceable, but which is stamped with a character of absolute
identity.” It might have been expected that some mention of an experi¬
ence so common would have been found in Dr. Carpenter’s Mental
Physiology, but I have looked in vain, and should be glad of a reference
to any scientific or probable explanation. It is suggestive of possibilities
which may have a certain bearing upon facts familiar to Spiritualists,
but can by no means be pressed into the service of the reincarnationists,
except, indeed, upon some such theory as that of a personage in Peter
Simple—I think—who held that every possible series and succession of
facts and events must recur in cycles; I suppose because he assumed
that the permutations of phenomena in time must, like those of a finite
number, be limited. C. C. M.
THE “FIVE MINUTES’ RESOLUTION.”
Sir,—While acknowledging the very flattering terms in which you
have magnified my qualifications for the office I lately held, and my
small services to the National Association, I feel bound to correct the
impression which your article is calculated to convey, that /have any
cause of grievance in the abolition of the office of honorary secretary.
I resigned it, before the appointment of a paid secretary, because a
change in my circumstances prevented me from continuing to give the
time necessary for an efficient performance of the duties, and because it
seemed unfit that I should share the dignity with another who did all
the work. The Council refused to accept my resignation; partly, I
imagine, from a kindly desire to pay me a little compliment in return
for my past services—partly in the hope that I might be coaxed into
doing work which was rather too heavy for one honorary secretary, and
which no one else was at that moment available for; but mainly, as I
conceive, because Miss Kislingbury—both as my fellow honorary, and
subsequently as paid secretary—has always been so kind as to say that
I was very useful to her as honorary secretary, and that she missed my
services last year when I was in America, though Mr. Rogers kindly did
his best to supply my place. Why these reasons for my retaining
the office, which have for nearly two years been found sufficient, should
have been suddenly found otherwise, or who it is who made the dis¬
covery, and what his motive was, are points on which it is not fit that I
should enter, and on which I am as yet uninformed, having left the
Council room before the question came on. But it is obvious that,
having resigned the office nearly two years ago, and having never with¬
drawn that resignation, I have no right, any more than I have any wish,
to complain that it has at last been accepted. A. Jov.
Hotel Belvedere, Lausanne, Switzerland, 19th June, 1876.
THE HONORARY SECRETARYSHIP OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Now that a week has elapsed to permit breathing time, there has
been more leisure for everybody to consider all the bearings of the
sudden abolition of Mr. Joy’s post as honorary secretary to the
National Association of Spiritualists. In the first place the Council
meeting was called for the election of officers, and not to transact the
very different business of the creation and abolition of offices, conse¬
quently the constitution of the National Association has been broken
in the circumstance that the usual month’s notice was not given
before the new subject was introduced. A steadily working body like
the National Association should never be taken by surprise, and if
ever any important business is brought on without the usual notice,
there is no doubt that those who do so will be open to adverse
criticism, whether their line of action is in accordance with the rules or
not. The courtesy and the legality of the abolition of the post of a
good worker without due notice should be closely criticised, but as
regards the other question of the desirability of abolishing or con¬
tinuing the office, there might have been much to be said on both
sides, had due notice been given. The most reasonable objection
raised against having two secretaries was that of the “divided
responsibility,’’ but this is a matter which public bodies find no difficulty
in arranging. The secretary might, under general circumstances,
be held responsible, as has hitherto been the case, for the work done by
both; but in times of exceptional difficulty the advice of the honorary
secretary might be asked and given in writing, and the Council might
decide wffiose decision in such cases should be final. Of late the hono¬
rary secretary has given assistance to the secretary whenever required,
and such aid, from one living close at hand and authorised to give it,
has been found to be of very great value. Individuals possessing the
requisite faculties to make good secretaries are rare in public organisa¬
tions, and upon such individuals the welfare of any society largely
depends, as may be seen in connection with the Dalston Association, or
any other of the smaller spiritual societies. Mr. Joy possesses rare
capacity for the work, and, from his large circle of acquaintances among
Spiritualists, who both respect and trust him, his presence in such a
post has tended to strengthen public confidence in the working of the
National Association. The presence of two exceptionally good secre¬
taries has tended to give that confidence in the working of the Associa¬
tion which would be felt in an ocean-going steamship possessing several
chronometers, instead of one. Mr. Martin Smith and Dr. Gully, who
are both warm friends of Mr. Joy, mitigated the force of the original
resolution by adding a vote of thanks to him for the great amount of
work he has done for the Association in the past, but probably neither
they nor the Council would have pursued the line of action they did had
not an unconstitutional surprise been sprung upon them.
June 23, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX-JENCKEN.
On Friday evening, last week, a seance took place through
the mediumship of Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken, at the house of
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., who was also present. The
guests who observed the phenomena were Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr.W. H. Harrison, and the editor
of one of the London daily newspapers. In the dark a hand
appeared close to the floor, carrying a large rectangular,
phosphorescent-looking light, about four inches square, and
emitting no smoke or smell. This hand moved about for a
time beneath Mrs. Jencken’s chair, occasionally striking the
floor with the hard luminous substance it carried. Then it
rose in the air, and moved about now and then over the table.
While some of the spectators stood up and held both Mrs.
Jencken’s hands, this light, carried by a living hand, rose
from the floor and touched one of the observers on the face;
the luminous substance was then felt to be cold, and both
the hand and the light were covered with delicate gauze-like
spirit drapery. Frequently, in the course of the evening,
in a bright light, the strong raps so readily obtained through
Mrs. Jencken’s mediumship were numerous.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
The Sunday services at the Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, announced
a few weeks ago in our columns, have been attended with signal
success. The newly-chosen hall is situated in the centre of fashionable
Liverpool.
On the opening Sunday, June 4th, Dr. William Hitchman addressed
the meeting in the afternoon. His discourse took the form of a reply
to the article of Mr. W. E. Gladstone, in the Contemporary Review,
entitled, “ The Courses of Religious Thought.” There was a good
attendance. At the evening lecture, delivered by that faithful worker
in the cause, Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, the hall was full to overflowing,
numbers having to stand the whole time. This lecture was devoted
purely to an enunciation of the higher teachings of Spiritualism, and
dealt mainly with the relations of the deeds, words, thoughts, and
motives of this life to that which is to come. It included a long and
important communication purporting to come from Judge Edmonds,
through the mediumship of Mrs. Tappan at New York, and the whole
discourse was listened to with close attention.
Dr. Hitchman and Mr. Priest were the lecturers on Sunday, June 11.
Last Sunday, June 18th, Dr. Hitchman delivered the afternoon dis¬
course ; his subject was, “ Princes and People.”
Mrs. Nosworthy in the evening gave an address, entitled, “ What is
Death ? ” Again her lecture was fully attended, and by an intelligent
and refined audience. As on the former occasion, she spoke of the
higher branches of spiritual teaching, urging purity of life as the only
course which will enable men to meet the change called death with
serenity.
The hall has been newly cleaned and decorated, the platform is
handsomely furnished, and the tout ensemble forms a striking contrast
to the late Assembly Room of the Liverpool Spiritualists.
CURED BY SPIRIT AID.
The astonishing cure of a supposed fatal disease by the manipulation
of hands on the body of the patient, is reported in the family of Mr.
Charles H. Benson, one of the editors of the Jersey City Evening Journal.
The patient was the eldest child of Mr. Benson, a girl of nine years.
Mr. and Mrs. Benson say that their daughter was prostrated by acute
bronchial affection in the early part of last August. She had all the
symptoms of consumption. Her cheeks showed the hectic flush of
disease, the pulse was quick and irregular, and night sweats and daily
fevers reduced her body to a skeleton. A hard, hacking cough at night,
and constant expectoration in the day, marked the case. Three physi¬
cians said that she could not possibly live.
Early in January, when the girl’s death was daily expected, Mr.
William Winslow Bennett, a next door neighbour of Mr. Benson’s, and
an avowed believer in Spiritualistic manifestations, called at Mr.
Benson’s house, at 362, Fifth-street, Jersey City, and said the little
girl’s cough kept him awake at night, and he desired to have it stopped.
He said that he could hear her coughing in the room where he slept.
Mr. Benson told him that the noise of the coughing would not trouble
him much longer. Mr. Bennett replied that he had come to cure the child
through the aid of the spirits, and he asked the parents’ permission to
lay lus hands on the invalid. Not having any faith- in Spiritualism,
they refused to consent to his mode of treatment.
Mr. Bennett renewed his offer with such persistency, that both Mr.
and Mrs. Benson decided to let him try his powers. He at once went
to work. He first bathed his hands in salt and water. The child was
placed on his lap, after being clothed in a loose garment which would
admit of the manipulations over the flesh. Said the medium, “ I will
not move my hands, but will await the action of the spirits who are
present.”
In a few minutes his hand began to move around the throat of the
sufferer. That night her cough was not so bad as it had been.
Mr. Bennett continued his laying on of his hands every night for
three months. He began his operations regularly at nine o’clock. One
evening he was twenty minutes late, and he said he could not move his
hands, as the spirits were not in the room.
Mr. Benson says that his daughter is now quite well.—Religio-Philo-
sophical Journal.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday evening, last week, the usual monthly meeting of the
Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at
38, Great Russell-street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Alex¬
ander Calder. The other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald,
Mr. and Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Algernon Joy,
Mr. M. J. Walhouse, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
Mr. C. C. Massey, Dr. J. M. Gully, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. H. Withall,
Miss Withall, Mr. R. Pearce, Mrs. Wood, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss
Houghton, Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr.
Glendinning, and Mr. Meers.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed, the
following new members were elected:—Lieutenant F. Napier, R.N.;
Lieutenant R. Stock, R.N.; Mr. Geo. Wyld, M.D.; Mr. T. Terrell,
Mrs. R. Pearce, Mr. J. Bulteel, and Mrs. A. C. Burke.
M. Marion, President of the Court of Appeal, Algiers, and M. Cocket,
of Algiers, were invited to become honorary members of the Association.
There were two resignations.
Mr. J. J. Morse resigned his seat on the Council, on the ground that,
according to one of the rules, any person who received remuneration
from the Association should not have a seat upon the board.
Mr. Rogers pointed out that, whatever might have been the inten¬
tion of the rule, it was so worded as to merely restrict the Council, and
not the individual. The rule, as worded, did not compel anyone to
resign.
Dr. Sexton explained that he was in the same position as Mr. Morse,
and should like to have the point settled, as he did not wish to be in a
position in opposition to the constitution of the Association.
It was, consequently, resolved to explain to Mr. Morse that the
letter of the rule did not compel him to resign.
Mr. Rogers moved that Mr. Alexander Calder be appointed president
of the British National Association for the coming year.
Mr. Martin R. Smith warmly seconded this, remarking that Mr.
Calder had always evinced much experience, temper, and tact, in his
dealings with the Association.
This was carried unanimously, with considerable applause.
Mr. Calder said: Ladies and gentlemen, brethren and sisters in
Spiritualism, I suppose that I ought to thank you for having elected
me to this important post with such unanimity, with so much kindness
of feeling, and with such tenderness of language, but a deep sense of
responsibility is upon me; I feel oppressed, and wish to give utterance
to the reasons why I feel so oppressed. I have been thinking of this
matter for a few days past, for the position is one of great responsibi¬
lity. If you understand what Spiritualism means, you will feel that
oppression with me, and share that sense of responsibility with me as
to the future. This Association has far more of a spiritual than a
business foundation, and unless we all apprehend this rightly our
work will be in vain, our labour will be lost. (Applause.) Your kind¬
ness will mitigate in a great degree the feeling of oppression incidental
to the responsibility of the position, and I hope that I shall have help
from that Higher Source, from that Power without which nothing is
, strong, or lasting, or good. Unless we look there for purity, for kind¬
ness, for truth—scientific truth—our labour will be worthless. If each
of you bring with you to our meetings this conscientious desire for
help from above, you will make your Association a living thing, other¬
wise it will come to nought. I thank you very much for having con¬
ferred upon me such an honour. (Applause.)
Mr. Morell Theobald moved that the vice-presidents of last year be
re-elected en masse, with the exception of Mr. Alexander Calder.
This was seconded by Mr. Rogers.
Mr. A. Joy proposed that they be elected by ballot. He remarked
that it would be invidious to hold up to public notice anybody who
might be supposed not to be fit for the post, consequently if they were
elected by ballot there would be no personality. The vice-presidents
should be voted for one by one.
This was seconded by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Mr. Rogers said that such a course would be contrary to all prece¬
dent. The Council was a representative body, consequently should
not do anything by ballot. Their constituents ought to know how they
voted.
Mr. Martin Smith thought the objection raised by Mr. Rogers to be
irresistible. What had taken place showed that in future the Council
should be most cautious whom it elected to the post of vice-president,
for it became evident that however easy it might be to elect them, it
was afterwards very difficult to get rid of them. Happily he did not
know anybody that they wished to get rid of.
Mr. Joy then suggested that Mr. Morell Theobald’s resolution should
be passed, but that the names of the proposed vice-presidents should
at least be read.
Mr. Theobald then read their names as follows Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, Mr. B. Coleman, Mr. T. Everitt, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mr. W. Hitchman, Mrs.
Honywood, Mr. H. D. Jencken, Mrs. Ramsay, Mr. Martin R. Smith,
Mr. S. T. Speer, M.D., and Mr. James Wason.
Mr. E. T. Bennett proposed, and Mr. Martin Smith seconded that
Mr. Rogers be elected a vice-president. This was carried unanimously.
Mr. Rogers remarked that the paid secretary had now to be elected.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that he had never heard of anything of the
kind before in any public body. It was a thing that was never done.
At the time the rules of the National Association of Spiritualists were
drawn up it was not done.
Mr. Rogers said that the rules demanded it.
Dr. Gully doubted whether such a tiling had ever been heard of any¬
where else, where the secretary was not a member of the Council, but
as Mr, Rogers said that the rules demanded it, time would be saved by
300
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 23,1876,
compliance therewith. He therefore moved that Miss Kislingbury be
reappointed.
Miss Houghton seconded this, and it was carried unanimously.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved “thjat the luxury of an honorary secretary
be dispensed with.”
This was seconded by Mr. E. D. Bogers.
Mr. Martin Smith was in favour of Mr. Bennett’s proposal, but
thought that a vote of thanks ought to be given to Mr. Joy for what he
had done in the past.
Dr. Gully thought so too, so would support Mr. Martin Smith’s pro¬
posal.
It was pointed out that if the reappointment of an honorary secre¬
tary were not proposed, there was no necessity to pass any resolution at
all. On this understanding the motion was withdrawn ; no honorary
secretary was elected, and a vote of thanks was passed to Mr. Joy.
Mr. Martin Smith was re-elected honorary treasurer.
Mr. Martin Smith moved that Mr. Morel! Theobald be reappointed
auditor. He remarked that the post involved a great deal of work and
trouble, and that the Association was much indebted to Mr. Theobald
for the large amount of time and attention he had given to the duties of
the office.
This was seconded and carried amid loud applause.
Mr. Rogers said that when the paid secretary was re-appointed he had
intended to move a rider, but had forgotten to do so, therefore asked
permission to do so now. She had voted at the annual meeting, a
thing which he had never before known a secretary to do, so he moved,
“ That the Council deems it in the highest sense inexpedient that the
secretary should vote at any meeting of the Association.” A discussion
followed—in which Messrs. Theobald, Gully, Everitt, and Martin Smith
took part—as to whether it was expedient that the secretary should
exercise the right of voting possessed by her as a private member of the
Association. The general idea was that it was inexpedient.
Mr. Glendinning said that the resolution, as worded by Mr. Rogers,
would be construed by the public as a vote of censure upon Miss Eis-
lingbury, and this he was certain the Council did not intend. He
thought that Mr. Rogers had better withdraw his motion, now that the
secretary knew what the opinion of the Council upon the subject was.
Mr. Rogers demurred to this unless some reference to the discussion
which had taken place were entered on the minutes.
This latter suggestion was agreed to.
Mr. Theobald proposed that certain committees should be appointed,
with power to add to their number.
Mr. Rogers remarked that Mr. Theobald’s propositions appeared to
come from some indefinite source. He thought that the best plan
would be that the chairmen of the committees for the past year should
meet, and bring before the Council a draft plan of committees for the
coming year.
Mr. Theobald said that the suggestions emanated from the Finance
Committee.
After some discussion the suggestion of Mr. Rogers was adopted.
A vote of thanks was then passed to the Misses Withall for having
done so much for the success of the soirees during the past year.
A list of members of the Association who had paid no subscription
for two years was produced, and their names were ordered to be struck
off the books.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee,
which showed a balance in hand of £120 Is. 8d., and recommended pay¬
ments to the amount of £48 13s. 6d. The outstanding liabilities of the
Association were estimated at £5.
The Secretary reported that Viscount de Torres-Solanot, of Madrid,
bad accepted honorary membership of the Association, and that the
Spiritist Society of Madrid desired to enter into official alliance with
the British National Association.
This was agreed to unanimously.
The Secretary announced the receipt of letters from Dr. Pull, Mr.
Whitear, Mr. Partridge, Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, and Mr. Bowman.
Votes of thanks were given to Mr. Wilkinson and Mr. Whitear for valu¬
able gifts and loans of books to the library of the Association.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, on behalf of the Scientific Research Com¬
mittee of the Association, asked the Council to give facilities for obtain¬
ing access to mediums as often as convenient.
It was resolved that the Seance Committee and the Research Com¬
mittee should make arrangements between themselves to carry out this
object.
The Council next sanctioned the formation of a special fund for the
purposes of the Scientific Research Committee.
Dr. Gully moved that the letters of persons who sent in reasons for
resigning should not be read, but that the fact of resignation only should
be reported. He was not a strong advocate of his own resolution, but
he wished to do something to prevent persons from reading a long lec¬
ture to the Council charging it with high crimes and misdemeanours,
for such power might degenerate into a means of ofi'ence, and facilitate
the venting of personal spite and animosity. It was beneath the dignity
of the Council to have its time wasted in listening to communications of
such a nature, and in which it did not feel the slightest interest.
Nobody cared to listen to such effusions, and they did not affect the
proceedings of the society one way or another. He had no objection to
modify his resolution.
It was then resolved that a Correspondence Committee be appointed,
to report upon letters received, and to lay them, in whole or in part,
before the Council, as may be deemed expedient.
A notice from Mr. Joy (who had been obliged to leave the meeting at
an early part of the evening) was read as follows: “ That it is not
competent for an Ordinary Council meeting to reverse the decision of a
Special Council meeting, or to pass a resolution which shall conflict with
any resolution passed by a Special Council meeting.” Also, “ That, in
accordance with Rule 27, no payments be in future made from the funds
of the Association to any member of the governing body, for work done
to the Association.”
Mr. Rogers said that neither motion could come forward at all at an
ordinary meeting, for both must be made bye-laws. For this reason,
even if Mr. Joy should be present at the next meeting, he could not
introduce them. The notices of motion were accordingly not entered in
the minutes.
The proceedings then closed.
Seances at Newcastle.—Miss Fairlamb’s seances at Newcastle
are tolerably well attended. On Tuesday and Thursday last, both the
materialisations and the physical phenomena were more powerful than
usual. Red light was used on both occasions from an old ship’s lantern;
this gave subdued illumination, yet of sufficient power to see everything
which took place. Among the sitters the harmony on each occasion
was more marked than usual, so the stronger manifestations may have
been due more to this circumstance than to the experimental light.
Duplication of Form.—The paraffin mould of a materialised right
foot, obtained at 38, Great Russell-street, through the mediumship of
Mr. Eglinton, while Mr. Eglinton’s right foot was projected from the
cabinet and in the sight of observers all through the seance, has proved
on close examination by Dr. Carter Blake to be undoubtedly in form an
exact mould of Mr. Eglinton’s foot. If Mr. Eglinton would sit outside
a cabinet like Mrs. Hardy, while the spirits made moulds with specially
coloured wax inside, it would be interesting permanent evidence in
relation to duplication of form.
Sensations after the Amputation of a Leg.—The following letter
is from The Newcastle Weekly Chronicle:—“ My right leg was taken off
on the 21st of October, 1854, just below the knee. I can therefore add
a little to this discussion from practical experience. I walk on my knee,
bent as in kneeling, and for a time—say for two or three months, I had
a severe pain, not in my knee, but in the ankle and instep; this un¬
pleasant feeling, after leaving me, never returned. I don’t think the
sensation of feeling the foot is as strong by far as it used to be at first,
but I am sorry to say I still have some severe pains in the lost member.
Sometimes I am made to jump from my seat by a feeling as of a needle
being run through some of my toes, and it is done so quickly that I have
sometimes said there is not time to shout ‘ oh ’ during the operation, and
it is no use shouting after. The feeling of the foot is so very real that
I have more than once, on getting into bed, put my hand down to
scratch my foot, and have felt much disappointed on finding none to
scratch. Some who have lost a limb say they can feel certain indica¬
tions of coming bad weather in the stump; I never could do so myself.
I might add that my knee is as soft now as the first day I walked on it,
and I sometimes bring the skin off it. Could any brother in misfortune
give me any advice as to any means of hardening the knee ?—R. J.,
Middleton, West Hartlepool.”
The Influence of Coloured Rays upon Life.—Hunt divided a
portion of soil into four; in each he planted a seed—one he screened
with a yellow, another with a red, a third with a blue glass, and the
fourth he left unscreened. He found that under the yellow, which
admitted the light (of the sun), but excluded the actinic (chemical) rays,
in a great measure, germination was entirely prevented. Under the red
glass the germination was not entirely prevented, but compared with
the one under the normal condition it was greatly retarded; whilst under
the blue glass, which excluded a great portion of the light rays but
admitted the actinic, germination was considerably quickened, the seed
germinating many days earlier than the one in the unscreened portion.
Indeed, Mr. Hunt obtained the most satisfactory evidence that under
the influence of the rays which passed the blue glass, germination was
set up at a depth below the surface of the soil at which under the
ordinary condition it did not take place at all. Lawson, the celebrated
Edinburgh seedsman, now employs blue glass on a commercial scale for
determining the vitality of seeds and accelerating germination. As soon
as the leaf-buds of any plant appear above the soil, the plant ceases to
absorb oxygen and gives out carbonic acid ; it now begins to absorb car¬
bonic acid and give out oxygen. But to effect this it requires the aid of
light; if under a blue glass no formation of leaves takes place; it does
not increase in diameter, but continues to elongate, until it attains an
enormous length. Whereas, if a young plant, which has just put forth
its bud leaves, be covered with a yellow glass, it shoots forth at once,
forming an abundance of wood and leaves. But neither under yellow
or blue glasses will plants flower or produce seed. For the development
of their reproductive organs they require the heat rays, which will not
penetrate these glasses, but are freely transmitted by the red coloured
glasses; under this kind of glass they flower in splendid profusion. Yet
this is not simply an effect of heat, since the same temperature may be
maintained under all the circumstances; yet if the red rays are ob¬
structed flowers will not form. It is therefore evident that this very
remarkable property must depend upon some function peculiar to this
class of rays. This explains why we are not able to obtain the same
results in our hot-houses as in tropical climates. By experiments of
this kind it has been proved that germination is accelerated by actinism
or the chemical power of the sunbeams, the growth of the plant (ligni-
fication) by light, the luminous power, and flowering by heat, or rather
those peculiar rays which are transmitted by red coloured glass, and to
which reference has just been made.—Galloway's Chemistry.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mr. Reimers writes to say that the bundle of linen mentioned in his last, was
seen at “her,” not “his” feet, Dr. Monck not being the medium on the
occasion.
June 23, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, hy Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.8. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8m, 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents; The
Anti-Supematuralism. of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit ;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent bis clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinimi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote 'during the whole
of his life w earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Oct,; cheap edition,
7», Od, p.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. *
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Yol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion: 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com-
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. lames Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
m ~ " „ ii.
„ni. „ •
„ iy. „ .
.. Y. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Pe
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .. .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ...
ople
s d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s.,
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . 5
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in-
14 6
18 0
12 6
0
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen ' 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by Janies
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ..20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .. * 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . 3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . • . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward "Clodd, F.R;A.S
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. *
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE 'PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, soimd common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell, is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by AUen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
nalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritnalist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
QPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
Kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
. Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.  
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES,
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill,
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian, World. ■
“The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the woik
in.hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘ the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—Rock.    
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. Cd. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist N e wspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 88, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VL—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free Us. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross.
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fond8 par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soeiiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
The FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card.' Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
DR. SEXTON’S CONCERT AT CAVENDISH
ROOMS. The Fourth Quarterly Concert and Elocu¬
tionary Entertainmert in aid of the Organ Fund connected
with Dr. Sexton’s Sunday Services will take place at the above
rooms on Wednesday, the 28th inst. The programme com¬
prises songs and duets by Mrs. Russell, Miss Lilie Gilham, Miss
Sexton, Mr. Thomas Child and Mr. G. Sexton, jun., recitations
by Mr. Thomas Menzies, Mr. Albert G. Ogan, and Mr. F. M.
Sexton, a selection of glees, &C- by Dr. Sexton’s choir,conducted
by Mr. Child, and a comic sketch by Mr. Ogan. Messrs. John
Brinsmead and Sons have kindly lent a grand piano for the
occasion.
Tickets may be obtained of Mr. G. S. Sexton, jun., 75, Fleet-
street, E.C., and 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E., and
at the doors on the evening of the entertainment. Prices—
Reserved Seats, 2s.; Back Seats, Is." Doors open at 7.30. To
commence at 8 o’clock.
June 23, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucoster-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wasou’s-buildings. Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq, M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq, 38, Great Russell-street, W C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq, Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq, Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq, F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq, 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lamont, Esq, Finfield, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq, 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq, 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq, Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Bon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec, A. Joy, Esq, 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been ah'eady subscribed:—
A Friend         £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  50 0 0
A. V. H        30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq      25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq.      25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq    25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq      25 0 9
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq    20 0 0
O. Y. Hoffmann  20 0 0
James Wason, Esq    20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg       19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq.  10 10 0
A Friend   .'  10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire      10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq  10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours    10 0 0
W. C. Oopperthwaite, Esq    10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq     10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••  10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun       10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq   j  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings      5 6 0
Mrs. Berry         5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq  5 6 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq       500
C. Townsend Hook, Esq  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq     500
Enmore Jones, Esq.   5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq      5 0 0
Mrs. Watts  5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq i     5 0 0
P. G  5 0 0
M. G. S  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq      5 0 0
J. H. D  5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq      5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq     5 10
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon   3 3 0
G. de Liagre        3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq    3 3 0
Miss Clark   3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq       2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq   2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq ;      2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie       2 2 0
F   2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear     2 2 0
Miss Whitear  2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq  2 2 0
D. G.-Fitzgerald, Esq i    2 2 0
Miss Watts >.....  2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D.     2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.  2 0 0
M. De Veh   2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq     2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq      2 0 0
Miss Douglas  2 0 0
R.B     110
D. H.W  110
A. Glendinning, Esq    1 1 0
W. Glynes, Esq    110
J. T. Peele, Esq ;  110
Dr. O. L. Robertson    110
Mrs. S. Dickson    110
Regnum      110
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq ;.... 110
F. A. Binney, Esq    110
J. Gledstanes, Esq....;  10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory      10 0
Dr. Hayle        10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq.     10 0
Mrs. Wiseman.............      10 0
Baronin V. Vay       0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq          0 10 6
O. C. G.    0 10 0
D. S. Vt   .......'  0 7 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by ]£, "W* AlliSt?, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
