[Registered as A Newspaper.
Jtefosppr rcrmurf^b biilj In firifahr.
No. 179. (VOD. VIII.—No. 4.) LONDON? FRlDAYj JANUARY 28j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Experimental Psychological Investigation   37
t pirit Photography under Test ConditionsCertificate of
the Result   37
Direct Spirit Writing through Dr. Slade’s Mediumship. By
Eugene Crowell, M.D   ... ... 38
The Royal Institution: — The Spontaneous-Generation
Problem....,, •••   ...    39
The Psychological Society of Great BritainClairvoyance
in Mr. Serjeant Cox’s Family—The Wainwright Case
—Experiences with a New York Clairvoyant—Dr.
Carpenter’s Wild Assumptions—Spirit Identity  40
The Brixton Psychological Society:—A Seance with Mr.
Eglington     42
Probable Visit of Dr. Slade to England    42
Experiments in Mesmerism    43
Correspondence:— Occultism — Elementary Spirits—Col.
Olcott on Psychological Phenomena—Reincarnation-
Dr. Carpenter and Spiritualism—Prize Essays   44
Provincial News:—Uttoxeter, A Test Seance with the Barn-
ford B rothers—Manciiester, Private Seances in Han-
chester—Dublin, Spiritualism in Dublin—Liverpool,
Sunday Services in Liverpool—Newcastle-on-Tyne,
Eternal Punishment   47
Presentation of the Harrison Testimonial   48
Paragraphs:—The International Memorial on Behalf of
M. Leymarie, 38; Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s, 46;
The Birmingham Bazaar, 48; Imitation Manifesta¬
tions, 48; Lecture at Brixton, 48; Mr. Morse in the
Provinces, 48; Spiritual Faces in Wax  48
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes tho work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Coitentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church,
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in America, and copies
may he had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
j^ratalxst Ifctosppr.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
vJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
.AH communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Sel wood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office nob later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance.' “The Spiritualist’’ wiU be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
T>IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
JL> and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed, on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the* Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds
Stocks Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on
Saturdays from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Eas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.’’ Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “ Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“ Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societios or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—88, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 3 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rne
de la Cathddrale, Liege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the f- piritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; edi:orial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fce. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready, pp. 592, demy 8vo, handsomely hound, extra
cloth, 10s., by post, 11s.
HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His expe¬
riences in Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit
Communications received through Mr. David Duguid, the
Glasgow Trance Painting Medium, with an appendix, contain¬
ing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruisdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes of Forty-five Drawings and
Writings, the direct work of the Spirits.
From numerous eulogistic expressions of opinion by sub¬
scribers, the publisher has much pleasure in giving the
following from S. C. Hall, Esq.:—
Avenue Villa, 50 Holland-street, Kensington, W.
December 27,1875.
Dear Mr. Nisbet,—You have sent me a most wonderful
hook. It has given me intense delight. I cannot exaggerate
if I eay I have never yet read a book that has given me such
deep and delicious joy—with only one exception, The Book,
which this hook so thoroughly upholds. Surely it wifi be so
with all who believe in and love the Lord Christ. . . . Blessed
be the God of love and mercy, who sent him to reveal and to
elucidate the great truths of the Gospel. Mrs. Hall is reading
it now. But I must read it again, and yet again. It will
companion the New Testament that stands at my bed-head,
and in which I read a chapter every night. Send me two
more copies..,. Burns says tt is cheap: it is werth its weight
in diamonds. But I wish it Lad been in two volumes.—Ever
truly yours, S. C. Hall.
The following exp' essions of opinion are taken from letters
of subscribers:—“The most remarkable book of the age.”—
“ Most highly spoken of on all sides.”—A clergyman of the
English Church says: “I have never read a volume with such
absorbed interest, so deeply suggestive and fertile in good
thoughts."—“An enchanting volume. Send me other five
copies.”—“Does infinite credit to yourself and the cause of
Spiritualism.”—“ A book so much to enlighten, and so much to
cheer.”—111 am delighted with your beautiful book.”—“ Hafed
is a miracle. I have never done admiring it or dear David, the
medium.”—A rev. doctor says: “I haye read it with the
deepest interest.”—“It is wonderfully interesting.”—“I never
read a book on Spiritualism half so interesting and calculated
to do good as Hafed is."
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row. Glasgow: Hay
Nisbet, 219, George-street.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term, Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Offices and Library Committee:
Mr. Thos. Everitt, Chairman.
Mrs. Everilt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson Wooers, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Kislincbury, Mrs. Desmond
Fi'Z-Gerald, Miss H. Withall, Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:
Mr. H. Withall, Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse,
Lecture and Discussion Committee:
Mr. Geo. King, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. T,
Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton.
Seance Committee: "
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. S. Chinnery, Mr, Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr. Mouell Theobald. Chairman.'
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation of these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics. They recommenced on
Monday, January 24th at 7.30 o’clock, and will be held fort¬
nightly until the end of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to send them at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTIfeMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Publisb< d
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
FT1HE COMMITTEE has much pleasure ia
JL announcing that the PRESENTATION of the TESTI¬
MONIAL to Mr. W. H. HARRISON will take place at a public
Soiree to he held in the Cavendish Rooms, 71, Mortimer Street,
on Wednesday, February 2nd. Tickets to be had on
application to Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russeli-street, W.C.
price Is. The chair will be taken by Mr. Martin R. Smith.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cog man’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
AS I am compiling a work of Psychological
importance, I would be exceedingly grateful to any
one who will furnish me with well attested Facts of Mania
of any description aiising from and aistitctly traceable to
Spiritualism. I also wish for written or piinted cases of
Imposture in connection with the same object as regards
public or private mediums. In this momentous and most
important undertaking, I ask the assistance of every honest
Investigator and Truthseeker. In any instance where books
or pamphlets treating this subject are forwarded to me, I will
readily pay the market value of such. All letters, manuscripts,
hooks or pamphlets, to be addressed to me, “ D. D. Home,
Nice, France, Paste Restante," till May 1st, and after this data
to “ Paris, France, Paste Restante.” D. D. Hour.
Nice, January 9th, 1876.
THE SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
19, OHUROH-STREET, ISLINGTON.
ON SUNDAY NEXT Mr. Lawrence and
other Mediums will occupy the platform; and on
Sunday, Feb. 13th, the Annual Meeting of the above Institution
will be held. Tea on the table at five. Conference will
commence at seven; when all ate invited to attend and take
part in the proceedings. Tickets for tea Is. each. J. Swindon,
president.
QUEBEC HALL, 25, QUEBEG-STREET,
MARYLEBONE-ROAD.
A PUBLIC MEETING will be held at above
address on Tuesday, Feb. 15th, at eight o’clock, for the
Purpose of Reorganising an Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
All the late members and friends of the Marylebone Society,
and Spiritualists generally, who, by their counsel or otherwise,
can assist, as well as persons anxious to inquire into the
subject, are cordially invited to be present.
Admission Free. No Collection.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.-
38
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Jan. 28, 1876,
camera, closely watching every movement, as he is well cal¬
culated to do, from his long experience in detecting “ profes¬
sional mediums.”
Mr. Cutter, having finished the preparation of the plate
in the dark room, in the presence of Mr. Moreland, brought
the fourth plate, in the “ holder,” and handed it to Mr.
Hartman.
Selecting Dr. Morrow as the “ sitter,” and a third person
to place his hand on the camera, the plate was again exposed
amid intense, breathless silence. Hartman visibly trembled,
and seemed te be engaged in deep, silent invocation. The
hands of the persons resting on the camera likewise visibly
trembled, showing the presence of some occult power.
Finally, Hartman ended the painful suspense by covering
the camera, when Mr. Cutter took the plate, and, accom¬
panied by Mr. Moreland, retired to the dark room to develop
it, leaving Hartman standing at the camera with great beads
of perspiration studding his brow, while the assembly looked
like _ grave and reverend signiors,” awaiting a verdict that
was to blast the fond hopes of the Spiritualist—and prove,
indeed, that “ life was but an empty dream.”
But quickly came the joyful exclamation from Moreland,
and the astounding cry from Mr. Cutter—a result! A ripple
of quiet joy ran over Hartman’s countenance, while his
friends, scarcely believing the good news possible, crowded
with sceptics and unbelievers, who doubted the evidence of
their own senses,around Mr. Cutter, who held the glass-plate
up to the light, and there, sure enough, impinging on the
head of Dr. Morrow, was the clearly defined face of a young
lady, even clearer and more distinct than his own. Every
one was astonished at this unexpected result. Murhman
looked at Cutter and Cutter looked at Murhman in blank
amazement, declaring that he didn’t do it, as it was one of
his own plates, and he knew there was nothing on it when it
went into the camera. There was the picture! Hartman
had never touched the plates, or entered the dark chamber
during its manipulation ! How it got there he didn't know ;
there it was! While sceptic and Spiritualist were equally
astounded, the best of feeling prevailed, and, to the credit of
all be it said, not a harsh, ungentlemanly word was dropped
during that great and conclusive trial.
Conclusive, in that, while Messrs. Cutter, Murhman, and
others do not admit the “ spiritual” origin of the form on
the plate, yet they all agreed that Mr. Hartman did not and
could not under the circumstances, of never touching the
plate or entering the dark room, produce the “ spirit picture”
by fraud or trickery. There is the picture of Dr. Morrow,
with the face of a young lady, with something resembling a
wreath arching over their heads I Whence came it ? If it
is not what it purports to be, a “ spirit form,” what is it?
And how came it there ? All present finally agreed to
sign a certificate as justly due and fairly earned by Mr.
Hartman.
CERTIFICATE OF THE RESULT.
We, the undersigned, having taken part in the public
investigation of spirit-photography given by Mr. Jay J.
Hartman, hereby certify that we have closely examined and
watched the manipulations of our own marked plates through
all the various workings, in and out of the dark room, and
have been unable to discover any sign of fraud or trickery
on the part of Mr. Jay J. Hartman. And we further certify
that during the last sitting, when the result was obtained,
Mr. Jay J. Hartman did not handle the plate nor enter the
dark room at any time.
“ J. Slatter, C. H. Murhman, V. Cutter, J. P. Weckman,
F. T. Moreland, T. Teeple, all practical photographers.
|| E. Saunders, Wm. Warrington, Joseph Kinsey, Benja¬
min E. Hopkins, E. Hopkins, G. A. Carnahan, Wm. Sulli¬
van, James P. Geppert, D. Y. Morrow, M.D., and Kobert
.Leslie.
. Cincinnati, 0., Dec. 25, 1875,”
* The International Memorial on Behalf of M. Leymarie.—We are
requested to state tliat as it is expected that M. Leymarie’s trial will
come on as soon as the French elections are over, the sheets for signa¬
tures to the petition which are now distributed about Great Britain,
should be filled up and sent in without delay, to the office from which
they were issued.
i j DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING THROUGH DR. SLADE’S
P % MEDIUMSHIP*
i)i BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
I Perhaps I shall never forget my first stance with Henry
f Slade, of New York. He was at that time—August, 1870
| —on a visit to Brooklyn, where I was residing, and reading
i in a daily paper a notice of his remarkable gifts, I forthwith
| called upon him at his rooms, accompanied by my wife.
I This was the first visit to the State, and he had been in the
i city only two days, while I also was comparatively a stranger
1 there. Of course I was incredulous, as I had never before
I j witnessed spirit writing, and availed myself of the oppor-
i)| tunity of his absence from the room to examine the furni-
i | ture, and the only table there, by turning the latter on its
| | side, and to give all a thorough inspection. He soon returned,
| | and we became seated, he at one side of the table and we
| | at the other, with a corner between him and us. The raps
| | were immediately heard, when he placed a slate, upon which
| | was a tiny bit of pencil, under the leaf of the table, but not
|(| so far under as to be wholly covered, pressing it upward in
| | contact with the leaf, supporting it in position with one hand,
|j; while the other was laid upon the table in contact with ours.
In a moment the bit of pencil was heard writing, and upon
! | the cessation of the sounds the slate was withdrawn, and we
| | read the words : u Good evening, friends.” The slate being
|j| replaced the sounds were again heard, and upon being re-
|| moved we found written: u From your son John.” An
j i infant son of ours of that name had passed away many years
I j before. The next message was: a Dear mother, I live and
||| am with you: John.” My wife here remarked she was
| | unable to understand how a child only eight months old at the
| | time of his death could write, when it was written : “ Dear
||| mother, I am a young man now.” This certainly was in
i | some degree satisfactory, for it was more than twenty years
i | since he had left earth, but what followed was more startling,
||| for the next communication was written in a bold masculine
| | hand: Elizabeth, believe your son ; Seth Crowell.”
This was the name of my father when living, and as he
jfj passed away more than forty years previously, the reader can
ijj judge what probability there was that the medium could have
|u known his name, or the name of my infant son, or the first
|/| name of my wife : or even if it were possible for him to have
| | known all this, he did not write those sentences, nor had he
| | any direct agency in writing them, as any liberal sceptic will
I' | admit who will take the trouble to sit with him and observe
| for himself. At this seance we were also favoured with
| music from an accordion, produced without visible hands,
the keys working in full sight of us all, and the whole was
| done in a room well lighted by the rays of the sun.
At a sitting with the same medium, March 2nd, 1871, he
held .the slate under the corner of the table so that it was
only partially concealed, and requested me to support the end
I nearest me. Upon taking it he released his hold, leaving it
I wholly in my hand, when he replaced his hand upon the
| table with the other. In a moment I heard the pencil
I writing, and upon its cessation I withdrew the slate, and
(| found upon it a message purporting to be from a deceased
| relative. It was pertinent and signed with the full name.
The medium then held the slate under the table on a level
| with our knees, and requested me to also grasp it with one
j hand. Upon my taking it he released his hold, leaving it in
| my hand, while he replaced his upon the table with his other.
| In a moment I felt a strong force exerted against me, as if
| there were two strong hands grasping the other end of the
|| slate, and I was compelled to exert my full strength to retain
j possession of it. This continued perhaps for a minute, when
i it ceased. All occurred in broad daylight.
] At another seance with the same medium, January 16th,
I 1871, af ter he had been controlled in an unconscious state and
I had recovered himself, he said he felt that the influence upon
| my wife was so strong that she would be able to obtain a mes-
| sage on the slate by herself. He then handed her the slate,
>| directing her to place it under the edge of the table in the
jj usual manner, and to press it firmly upward in contact with
|j the leaf. She complied, supporting it with one hand, with
|| the thumb clasping the upper edge of the table, and placing
11 her other hand upon the latter, the medium also placing both
|| * From Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Hodeni Spiritualism. Yol. ii.
Jan. 2S, 187(3. THE SPIRITUALIST. 39
his hands there upon both of mine, so that every hand except¬
ing the one of hers that held the slate was in full view upon
the table. After a few moments the bit of pencil was heard
writing, and as soon as the sounds ceased the slate was with¬
drawn by my wife, and upon it in well written characters we
read: “ God bless you, my child. J. W.” These two
letters were the first two initials of her father’s name.
At my own house, where slate and pencil had been pre¬
viously provided by myself, Dr. Slade being present, we
received a number of communications written on the slate
in the same manner, all appropriate and signed with the
names of deceased relatives.
Twice the writing has been freely effected when I placed
the slate under the table leaf, and there held it firmly in
contact with the lower surface, the medium not touching it,
both his hands being placed upon my remaining hand in full
view.
At least half-a-dozen times I have seen him place small
pieces of pencil on the middle of the exposed surface of the
table, and over these the slate, then placing our four hands
together on the table just in front of us, the writing has taken
place just the same as when the slate has been under the leaf.
Here the writing was done on the under side of the slate,
and I have more than once on these occasions received
messages, which, closely and distinctly written, covered one
side of it.
At one time—Feb. 4, 1873—the slate which I had in¬
spected and carefully cleaned, was placed on the middle of
the table with the usual fragment of pencil under it, the
medium and I being seated together with our hands joined
near the edge of the table. We sat thus about a minute,
when he arose and passed to the opposite side, and there seated
himself, at least four feet from that side of the table, his
hands at my request being raised and in full view, and while
thus seated the writing continued, and when finished I found
it to be a communication clearly, closely, and regularly
written, signed with the name of a deceased friend, covering
all the lower surface of the slate.
Upon three separate occasions I have known him to take
a double slate, or two slates united by hinges, and after I
had inspected their surfaces, and rubbed them with my
moistened fingers, he has placed a mite of pencil upon one
of them, then closed them and placed the slates thus folded
upon the table near its centre, a foot or more from our united
hands, and in each instance both of the inner surfaces were
covered with writing, and signed with the name of a friend
in spirit life. All these things took place in daylight, in a
room thoroughly well-lighted, the rays of the sun streaming
upon the floor.
Then again, at a stance with the same medium, in a room
well lighted with gas, a beautiful hand, evidently that of a
female, emerged from under the table, and with a pencil
wrote upon a sheet of paper placed on a slate on my wife’s
lap, an affectionate message to which was signed the name
of one who was very dear to us, and who had passed away
some six months previously. The hand was perfectly formed,
and we both recognised it, and every movement was as free,
natural, and graceful as possible, and the writing though not
well done was effected letter by letter with deliberation and
apparent freedom. There was nothing visible above the
wrist, the hand did not terminate abruptly, no distinct line
marking the separation, but where the upper portion of the
wrist should have been nothing was visible. It remained in
sight at least five minutes.
With Mr. Foster, I have repeatedly known writing to be
produced while he held both paper and pencil between two
adjoining fingers of one hand, he holding the writing mate¬
rials under the table, while the other hand was placed on it.
Twice while thus held I have inclined over and seen the
pencil write, and in both instances names were written
backwards, which were those of deceased friends, of whom
he could not possibly have had any knowledge.
At a seance with this medium, I inquired how the writing
on the slate was effected at Dr. Slade’s. The answer given
by a spirit friend was :
“ The writing on the slate is produced in the simplest
way. The smaller the pencil the more easily we can write;
the larger the pencil the greater the difficulty. We move
the point by our will-power entirely, and that enables us to
write; very few spirits can directly control the pencil. That
is the reason why the medium’s wife comes so often to show
other spirits how to do this.”
When a person receives a letter from a friend, he finds in
addition to the address the date and name of place where
written, followed by the communication itself, referring to
incidents or matters with which he is familiar, or which are
probable, and, lastly, he finds a familiar name signed thereto.
He knows that the person whose name is there signed
wrote the letter, or some friend wrote it for him at his
request, or that some person has forged the letter and signa¬
ture. One of these three things has occurred, and it is
precisely the same with a written message appropriately
directed and signed, when executed in the presence of a
medium, upon or under a slate while the latter rests
untouched upon the table before his eyes, or while perhaps
he assists in holding it closely in contact with the under
surface of the table, or, as sometimes occurs, while both
pencil and slate or paper are out of reach of any person
present. He knows that no mortal hand wrote the message,
and it must, therefore, have been written by an invisible
hand or agency, and that agency must, like that which
wrote the letter, be intelligent. As in the case of the
letter, he knows either that the spirit whose name is there
signed wrote the message, or some other spirit wrote it for
him at his request, or that a spirit or something that pos¬
sesses the intelligence and power that we suppose attach to
a spirit, forged the communication. In either case a spirit
or intelligence beyond mortal wrote it.
A mode of writing by spirits which strongly impresses
the observer, is that where letters suddenly appear, of a
bright scarlet colour, usually upon the hand or arm of the
medium, as occurs with Mr. Foster. I am not aware that
any ancient record is known of this mode of spirit-writing,
but in the modern history of the Catholic Church some
instances of it are recorded ; among them that of the
prioress of the Ursuline nuns at Loudon, in France, about
the year 1635. The names of St. Joseph and the Virgin
appeared upon her hands, and remained there for some time,
and Mr. Thomas Killigrew, an Englishman, says : “ I saw
her hand, white as my hand, and in an instant change
colour all along the vein and become red, and all on a sudden
a word distinctly appeared, and the word was Joseph.”
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE SPONTANEOUS-GENERATION PROBLEM.
Last Friday night, Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., delivered
the first Friday evening lecture of the session at the Royal
Institution, to an overflowing audience. Every inch of
standing room was occupied, and every passage whence a
glimpse of the lecturer could be obtained filled. Dr. George
Busk, F.R.S., late President of the Royal College of Sur¬
geons, occupied the chair. Among the listeners were
Professor Huxley, F.R.S., Lady Arthur Russell, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, F.R.S., Lord C. Hamilton, Lady Hamil¬
ton, Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken,
Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., Lady Lubbock, Mr. Wil¬
liam Spottiswoode, F.R.S., Mr. Longman, Mr. R. Hannah,
F.S.A., Sir J. Hannen, Mr. Warren de la Rue, F.R.S., the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts, Lady M. Egerton, Sir F. Pol¬
lock, Lady Everest, Col. Campbell, Mrs. Limond Strong,
Sir H. Thompson, Admiral Codrington, Mr. Liebriech, Dr.
E. Frankland, F.R.S., the Right Rev. the Bishop of Hono¬
lulu, Dr. Price, Mr. W. N. Hartley, F.C.S., Mr. B. Vincent,
Mr. Hughes, Mr. C. W. Siemens, F.R.S., Mrs. Siemens,
Captain Douglas Galton, F.R.S., Mr. Francis Gallon,
F. R.S., Mr. W. C. Roberts, F.R.S., Dr. Allman, Pro¬
fessor W. K. Clifford, Mr. J. F. Collingwood, and Mr. W.
H. Harrison.
The substance of Professor Tyndall’s lecture was that he .
had discovered that putrefaction would not begin in infusions
of meat and other organic substances, if they were kept in
common air which had been freed from floating particles of '
matter. In common air there is plenty of floating dust,"
dirt, and germs, which can be seen more or less by the-
naked eye, by the way in which they reflect sunlight from
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 28, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, I’arkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lillan-villa, Holder’s-luil, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., 10, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, (rrosvonor-square, W.
Gaily, J. M., M.D., Orwell-Iodge, Bedl’ord-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-stroet, Islington.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., S2, Warwtck-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, StanhopeTompleman.M.D., Douglas House, 16, Alexandra-
road, Kinchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-bulldlngs, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. 1’., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Aslitou, E. B., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E„ I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Riehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool,
ilhinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Tlios., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Borismouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, It., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwicli.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fltton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilbert'orce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., 51. D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Gobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivhney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy. Algernon, 51.1 C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
5Ialtby, 5Irs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
51awson, \Vm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
5teers, w. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.'
5Iorse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, 5Irs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., 5I.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's
Park.. NAY.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Firchley, N.
Rogers, 5)rs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Sltepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House,"Woolwich-common.
Showers, 5Irs.,i03, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, AY.
Snelljng, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
StraiVbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp; G. R., 18, Queen 5Iargaret’s-grove, 51ildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, 5Iark-lane, E.C.
Tlteobald, R 51., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. 51., 62, Granviile-park, Blackhcath, S.E.
AAredgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AAr.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II. M.A., LL.5I., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
5Iall, S VV., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.AY.
AVisemau, 5Irs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withal I, Sliss II., 1, 'The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AY.
withaii, H,, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AY.
AVood, 51rs., Bedford House, Carlyle-squaro, Chelsea, S.AY.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatiilands, Wimbledon-common, S.AY.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Grfeat Russcll-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
5Iiss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.5I.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Nieder AYaliuf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adehna Yon Aray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor O. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a 5Iaranosa, 5Iadrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
51. Gustave de Afeh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. 51. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
51rs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand 5Iittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James-5lylue, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A. .
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude 5Iolstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyernian, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, 5Ielbourne.
51. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via 5Iorone, 5Iilan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, 5I.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. AVittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, 5Ielbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
B. T. Child, Esq ,51D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
■ U.S.A. ’
51. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General do France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AY. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. 5Iurray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Sirs. J. 51. Spear, 2210, Slount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel AYatson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, 5Iontgomery-place, Boston, U.S A.
51. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelmo Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Slid),
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., 5I.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B< Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aidlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AY. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, AYaltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AY. Day, Esq., 9, 5Iontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. It. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AY.
5Irs. Hitllock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, VAr.
Signor Damiani, Salita Ponteeorvo, 00, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—5Ir. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et51agnetique. Secretary—51. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forseher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, 51. Anton
Procliaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called' Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Tlie British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
tlie year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with 5Iiss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
Tlie entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT ItUS 3ELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected wi'h Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.;
5Ioathly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10,30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ain sworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, 51r. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
» In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
510DERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written exprersly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.8.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“ Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c„ &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,” uCui
Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Oonduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as abovs.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium
AND MEDICAL MES51ERIST, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumsbip. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury,
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
f-tate, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationxle of care, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to’4 daily.
Fee. One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardem, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication < f
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers,
Physical Mediums, will give Seances as follows:—On
Monday and Wednesday evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission
2s. 6d ; on Saturday evenings, at 7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton,
Macclesfield.
Mil. S. R. REDMaN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs to inform inquirers and othe-s that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of ‘ The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
MR. ROBSON, TRANCE MEDIUM, is pre¬
pared to hold Seances or give Addresses on subjects
connected with Spirit Communion. He is also desirous to
obtain active employment in the daytime with a Spiritualist or
Spiritualists. Good references. Age 30 years. Address-
35, Edmund-place, Aldersgate-street, London, E.C.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor
mat ion for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own hemes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Gieat Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Mesmerism and electro-biology’.—
Complete Instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-
Biology, with lull and explicit directions for the production of
all the different phases of these marvellous and mysterious
Psychological Phenomena. Private Instructions personally or
by Post. For terms, address, Mr. E. H. Valter, Claremont-
villa, 51, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, 5Ir. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6J.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
psychopathic institute
For the CURE OF NERVOUS AND mus¬
cular DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS
on
Spiritualism, Psychology, Mesmerism, Anthropology,
Merited Physiology, and Kindred Subjects,
Are on sale at the Branch Office of The Spiritualist News¬
paper, 38, Great Russell-stieet, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Booksellers and others who have Works upon these i-ubjects
are requested to forward their Lists by post to the Manager.
% xrf nnt tl (pjtijji(ttnli$tn*
Vo^ujvie Eiqht
LONDON, FRIDAY,
EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION.
Last Monday night some experiments were tried at one
of the fortnightly meetings in connection with Spiritualism,
held at 38, Great Russell-street, having a strong interest in
relation to trance mediumship. A youth upon the platform
was put in what mesmeric lecturers call a biological state,
that is to say, he was compelled to do whatever the mes¬
merist willed; and after he had gone through a few not
particularly edifying performances at the command of Mr.
Redman, he was, at the request of one of the visitors, made
to see a spirit. When asked to describe the same, he pic¬
tured an orthodox angel, and when asked her name, said
that it was Sarah Godbold, a young lady not unknown to the
sensitive in his normal state, only, he remarked, that she
looked much more beautiful on the present occasion. He
was then made to believe that she was inspiring him to
utter thoughts to the public calculated to benefit mankind
at large ; and under these conditions he uttered a very few
sentiments which had not been put into his head by the
mesmerist. When it is remembered that some of the
more experienced mesmerists dispute the spiritual
origin of the phenomena, on the ground that the
medium is a mesmeric sensitive acting under the
desire or anticipation of the circle that he will see spirits,
the importance of these experiments will be apparent.
Supposing the sensitive to have had a natural talent for
oratory, and an idea that he was able to instruct the
public, might not a long oration have been given instead
of a few sentences? Then again, as the sensitive was appa¬
rently wide awake, yet made to do most ridiculous things
at the will of the operator, to what extent are mediums re¬
sponsible for their actions, who may be said to be more or
less in this same state at all times ? A few more experi¬
ments of the kind might solve some of these questions, and
there would be no harm in trying whether, as in the case
stated by Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, physical facts can be
produced at a distance by the spirit of a biologised person.
The circumstances were, that a mesmerist made the spirit of
his sensitive touch some persons who resided in a distant
house, and those persons were frightened into the belief
that they had been interfered with by a ghost. Such ex¬
periments as these should be systematically tried.' An
attempt might also be made to obtain physical effects by
ordering the spirit of a mesmerised sensitive to move a
chair or a table. Supposing these things can be systemati¬
cally done, they will by no means sweep away the verities of
Spiritualism, because of the many cases in which particulars
about departed friends not known to anybody in the room
are given with accuracy. At the same time, in all Spiritual
manifestations some of these powers may be at work to a
certain extent, and nothing but painstaking experiment can
show what is the amount of their influence upon phenomena
in which all Spiritualists are so deeply interested.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
Although spirit photography is afact,ithas not been closely
studied, and has long been more or less under a cloud among
Spiritualists, because of the utterly untruthful and untrust¬
worthy character of some, though not all, of the mediums
in France, America, and England, who have possessed the
power. The following excellent case of a spirit photograph
taken under test conditions, is now attracting consider¬
able attention in America, and we quote the interesting
details from The Spiritual Scientist (Boston) of January 6th
last
Among others, Mr. Jay J. Hartman has been producing
Kumber FciUFb
JANUARY 28th, 1876.
; “ spirit pictures” at Teeple’s gallery, No. 100, West Fourth-
|L street, Cincinnati. He has been bitterly denounced as a
| trickster by the sceptics and unbelievers, and lately one of
! our morning contemporaries gave three columns of sensa-
| jr tional arguments and statements to prove that the whole
! matter was a delusion, and Hartman a miserable humbug.
| Although he gave private “test sittings ” that seemed satis-
| i factory, yet even many of his friends began to doubt him,
11 until he, last week, published a card that on Saturday
(| morning, December 25th, he would permit free public inves-
? | tigation, addressed to the public generally and to the photo-
! graphers especially; he said that he would place all the
i arrangements in the hands of those taking part in the inves-
j tigation ; they to choose the room where the trial was to be
i held, bring their own marked plates, furnish their own
|| camera, chemicals—in fact, everything, Hartman simply
I asking to manipulate the plates in the presence of practical
i photographers, to show that he used no trickery.
| Christmas morning came bright and cheerful, and found
11 sixteen gentlemen, five of them practical photographers of
; | this city, assembled at his rooms. Putting the question to
j vote, it was decided to adjourn to the photographic gallery of
(j Mr. Y. Cutter, No. 28, West Fourth-street. Mr. Cutter,
)| being an expert in detecting the “ spirit-picture trickery,”
|; and as Mr. Hartman had never been in his gallery, he would
\\ be at the double disadvantage of being in a strange room,
I surrounded by strange sceptics and practical men cpfick to
! detect fraud. *
\ | Mr. Hartman cheerfully accepted, exacting but one con-
I dition, that there should be no arguments, jesting, or
(j ‘ unbecoming conduct, in speech or action, liable to produce
j discord and disturb the harmony and quiet necessary to
| insure results. As the offer was made by Mr. Hartman in a
j perfectly fair and gentlemanly manner, it was accepted in a
j like good spirit, and the party adjourned to Mr. Vincent
11 Cutter’s rooms.
i Entering the operating room, the party were requested to
11 seat themselves on each side of the camera and join hands,
i Mr. Hartman then desired to be searched and blindfolded,
[! but the photographers waived this point as being unneces-
sj sary. Mr. Hartman then chose Mr. F. T. Moreland to
represent him, and see that everything was done fairly.
)j Then, selecting Mr. C. H. Murhman, a practical photo-
j grapher and strong sceptic, the three entered the dark room,
j Mr. Murhman furnishing his own plates. The plates pre-
) | pared, they approached the camera, Mr. Muhrman carrying
11 the plate and then sitting for a i* picture.”
| Amid breathless silence the plate was exposed and carried
j j back to the dark room, Mr. Hartman following. Soon came
11 theory: “No result.” Sceptics somewhat jubilant.
: Another plate was ordered, Mr. Murhman again following
jj Hartman through. No result. Unbelief above par, and
j | rising rapidly.
<| Mr. Cutter, the proprietor of the gallery, a strong sceptic,
11 and probably the best expert in the city, was now chosen to
(I go through the workings. Hartman seemed downcast, and,
j declining to enter the dark room, stood at the camera, seem-
I ingly absorbed in deep meditation or prayer. His friend
Moreland and Mr. Cutter entered the dark room alone,
W Mr. Cutter preparing the plate. Coming out to the
> | camera, and giving Hartman the “ holder,” he seemed to
E| be so much abstracted as to be scarcely able to place it in
[| position. Calling to two gentlemen to place their hands on
(| the camera with him, the third plate was exposed, with no
11 result.
Affairs looked gloomy, indeed, for poor Hartman and his
;j friends. But he directed Mr. Cutter to prepare another
i plate, and dropped into a deeper state of abstraction than
! ever. Mr. Murhman sat close beside Hartman and the
40
THE SPIHITUALIST. Jan. 28, 1876.
their surfaces when that light passes through a hole in a
shutter into an otherwise dark room. The lecturer employed
closed boxes a foot or two square, with a pane of glass in
each of the opposite ends, also in front. These boxes were
painted over with glycerine inside, and allowed to rest for
three or four days, in which time the floating dust settled down
from the air and stuck to the sides of the box. When a strong
beam of light from the electric lamp was then sent through
the glass ends of the box, it could not be seen tracking its
way through the enclosure, because there were no floating
particles there to scatter it by reflection. Glass test-tubes were
projected through the bottom of each box, with their mouths
inside; these tubes had been three-parts filled through a
pipette with infusions of meat, which infusions were after¬
wards boiled by the application of heat to the bottoms of the
tubes, in order to destroy any floating germs which might be
in the water. After this the various infusions of hare,
rabbit, beef, mutton, sole, wild duck, fowl, and so on, were
found to keep good in the purified air for months; he ex¬
hibited specimens which had been prepared last October,
and were as fresh as when first inserted in the boxes. Under
ordinary conditions the solutions would begin to decom¬
pose in twenty-four hours. Sewer gas and other noxious
gases would not produce putrefaction if they were first freed
from floating particles. In putrefaction myriads of bacteria
put in an appearance; these are lively little animals, to be
seen only by the aid of powerful microscopes; they shoot
about in liquids witli great velocity, and are, in short, a kind
of minute but remarkably active water-flea. They vary in
colour ; some are a bright green. Their germs seem to float
in the air in swarms, for Professor Tyndall has discovered
that infusions of meat exposed to the air on certain days
absorb fewer germs than those upon other days. He said
that there could be no putrefaction without the presence of
bacteria, which acted like chemists in organic solutions;
also, like chemists, they spent most of their time in making
bad smells. The general results of his experiments were
against the hypothesis of spontaneous generation; they
tended to prove that the living bacteria come from the germs
in the atmosphere as certainly as plants come from seeds,
and the experiments furnished no evidence that living
organisms were ever spontaneously generated from in¬
organic matter.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday night, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of
the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
Mr. Serjeant Cox presided. There was a good attendance.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary secretary, then announced that the
following new members had been elected :—The Rev. D. Dutton, Mr.
Percy Gordon, and Mr. A. L. Elder. Mr. Albany Fonblanque, the
British Consul at New Orleans, was elected a honorary member.
The Honorary Secretary next announced that the Council had passed
certain resolutions as to the reception of communications in relation to
psychological phenomena, as those facts ought to be well vouched for
before they were submitted to the society. He added that the society
invited communications from all quarters of facts and phenomena
witnessed by the writer, or obtained from authentic sources, on the
following important questions in psychology:—1. Remarkable cases of
heredity in man, animals, or plants. 2. Psychological phenomena that
may have given rise to the belief prevalent in all countries in the exist¬
ence of ‘‘the double,” as exemplified especially in the second sight of
Scotland and the doppel-ganger of Germany. 3. Facts and phenomena
illustrative of the power of supersensuous perception alleged to be
exhibited in somnambulism and other abnormal conditions. Corre¬
spondents were requested to observe the following conditions:—1. To
report only facts and phenomena—id) That they have personally
witnessed, (b) That they have received from a reliable witness. M
That they have found in some book of accepted authority, ancient or
modern. 2. In all cases the correspondent must give his or her name
and address.. When reporting information received from another, the
name and address of the informant, but only for the assurance of the
Council. No name will be published if desired to be omitted. (3) The
facts must be reported as briefly as possible, without comment; but the
tests and conditions under which the phenomena were exhibited should
be minutely detailed. The Secretary added that the society is about
to publish a periodical Record of Psychological Facts and Phenomena,
in which these contributions will be collected. Before sitting down he
had also to announce that the annual meeting of the society will be held
on Thursday, the 24th Feb. Nothing but business would have to be
transacted at the annual meeting, but he hoped that the members would
attend, because any suggestions they might make would be useful to
the Council.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., asked whether discussions
would follow statements of psychological facts, the same as after the
reading of papers. .
The President said that there could be no discussion as to causes, but
only as to the facts themselves, that is to say, questions only could be
put, and there would be no discussion.
CLAIRVOYANCE IN MR. SERJEANT COX’S FAMILY.
The President said that he wished to make known the particulars of
a case which had occurred in his own family. Matilda C , aged
fifteen, had fits of a cataleptic character, which attacked her at irregular
intervals, and seized her at unexpected times. At such times she
became insensible, and had to be carried to a couch: at first she was
rigid, but the flexure of the limbs was afterwards partially restored;
her power of speech was lost, and she could express her feelings only by
actions. While in this state she had a supersensuous power of percep¬
tion. She was conscious of her father’s approach before any of her
senses had been affected in the ordinary way; she could feel Ms
influence when he was at least a quarter of a mile from the house. The
insensible form upon the sofa gave notice of his approach with unfailing
certainty a quarter of an hour or more before he arrived. If he (Mr.
Cox) opened a book containing pictures, she could see those pictures,
although she was in another part of the room, and would throw herself
into the attitudes of the persons represented in any engraving at which
he might be looking at the time. Even had her eyes been open she
could not have seen those pictures in the ordinary way. This state
lasted for more than a year, and experiments were tried many times
during that period, so that the facts were proved conclusively, beyond
all manner of doubt. It had been objected that she perhaps knew the
book and guessed at the pictures, consequently he tried her with books
and pictures borrowed from strangers; moreover, in a volume containing
thirty pictutes, she never once made a mistake as to the particular pic¬
ture at which he was looking. He found by experiment that she saw
his mental impressions, and not the pictures themselves, for she could
only see as much of any engraving as he saw Mmself. Sometimes she
wished for something not in the room, and if her attendant, who went to
fetch it, touched the wrong thing, she showed signs of displeasure and
annoyance. TMs experiment was repeatedly tried. She did not
see the object itself, but the impression on the mind of the attendant,
for when the latter was blindfolded there was no perception on the part
of the patient. While in tMs abnormal state the patient was graceful in
all her actions, and more than commonly intelligent; she could play
games of cards with skill with her eyes closed, whilst in her normal
state she could not play a game at cards at all. In her waking state she
could not tell what had taken place in her cataleptic state, but in one
cataleptic state she remembered all that had taken place during her
previous attack. She was his own sister. He took it to be a case of
mind-sympathy, not of mind-reading.
THE WAINWRIGHT CASE.
The Secretary called attention to a published letter alleged to have
been written by Stokes to Wainwright. He thought from the diction
of the letter that it was not written by Stokes at all. He had tried to
get at Stokes to find out about the matter, but had failed. The Psycho¬
logical Society would be glad to have the history of that letter, for
reliable information upon it would be of value.
A listener asked whether the father of the cataleptic patient always
came home at one time, or at varying times each day.
The President said that he came home at irregular times. Her
power lasted for twelve mouths, and then gradually died out.
EXPERIENCES WITH A NEW YORK CLAIRVOYANT.
Mr. Charles Carleton Massey, barrister-at-law, rose and said:—
Having become interested in the investigation of certain disputed
psychological phenomena, I availed myself of the long vacation to
pursue the inquiry in the United States of America. Reports had
reached me, from an apparently trustworthy source, of very extraor¬
dinary and wonderful occurrences of this description in that country; and
I desired to bring to the observation of them such a dispassionate
regard and appreciation of evidence, as a mind open to conviction but
not too eager to be convinced, a legal training, and some experience in
this investigation would be likely to ensure. In the present state of our
information I do not think that any one, unprepared by personal experi¬
ence, could, or indeed ought to, accept as sufficient any statement con¬
firmatory of the class of phenomena to which I have just been referring.
The most that can reasonably be expected is to establish a primd facie
case fer investigation. With this object I am quite ready to impart to
the society any of my own experiences, although, be it remarked,
that in so doing but one voice is added to the already abundant testi¬
mony. What I have to describe was witnessed in America, but similar
facts are of daily occurrence in this country, although not, so far as I am
aware, in bright light, or in the case of one, and antecedently the most
incredible class of phenomena under such unexceptional test conditions
as I observed it. This evening, however, as the agenda paper is
somewhat crowded, I will confine myself to an account of a sitting, or
rather two sittings, which I had in New York with a clairvoyant named
West, and to which I bespeak your especial attention for the bearing
which it has upon Dr.’ Carpenter’s explanation of similar facts in the
case of Mr. Foster, and which will be found on pages 308 — 10 of Mental
Physiology. I went twice, but the description of one visit will suffice,
save that on the first occasion I went with a friend, on the second I was
alone. Mr., or as he calls himself, “ Dr.” West, being engaged, we
were shown into an empty room adjoining the sitting room. A young
woman brought me a sheet of white and tolerably thick note paper, and
a pencil, desiring me to write ten questions, each on a separate slip of
paper, which I was afterwards to fold up by simply doubling it in both
its dimensions. I was also desired not to interpose vfafa voce questions
or remarks during the stance. Nor were the written questions to be
long or involved. Thus instructed, I prepared them, the young woman
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 28, 1876.
having left the room, which was occupied only by my friend and myself.
I showed only one of my questions to the former, one other I wrote at
his suggestion. And I may mention here that, bearing Dr. Carpenter’s
explanation distinctly in mind, I was prepared to take good care that
no part of the pencil with which I wrote should be visible to West. On
the occasion of my first visit I did not trust altogether to being alone
with my friend in the room, but took the precaution to write with my
back to the partition wall. On the second occasion I wrote the questions
in the sitting room, but Dr. West was out of the room during the
greater part of the time, and most assuredly had not for a single moment
the opportunity of employing the singular faculty with which Dr. Car¬
penter credits Mr. Foster, of reading what is written from observation
of the motions of the top of the pencil. But to put this, as well as the
hypothesis of “ thought reading,’’ altogether out of the question, as soon
as I had written my questions and folded up the slips, I shuffled the
latter well together, so that I was myself utterly ignorant which of the
questions I was handing to the clairvoyant, as I mast take leave to call
him. He took his seat opposite me, with a slate on the table before
him. He wrote on the slate, however, only twice, usually answering
viva, voce. I handed him one of the slips of paper, which he would
take in the palm of his left hand, without looking at it, and hold quite
passively. I watched particularly for any movement of the fingers over
the paper, as I had heard it suggested that, like some blind persons, he
might have acquired the facility of reading written characters, though
little raised, by passing the fingers over them. I do not think any one
could so have read my questions, as I wrote them very lightly, on paper
of ordinary thickness, which was folded as I have described. However,
that was certainly not how West did it. He professed that the answers
were communicated to him by writing, which only he could see on his
sleeve, which he frequently consulted, asking that the supposed writing
should be made plainer. Be that as it may, the fact is that in every
case, without one single exception, he read my twenty questions cor¬
rectly. The evidence for this is that he answered each of them either
in the terms of the question, or in terms that were clearly relevant to it.
As each question was answered, he handed me back the slip of paper
containing it. On this I indorsed the answer, then opened it, and com¬
pared question and answer. I will proceed to give some specimens;—
Q.—Is there any sufficient reason why I should not sail for England on
Saturday ?
A ns.—Better not sail on that day. If you wait you w 11 get some satis¬
faction you will otherwise miss.
Q.—What answer, in substance, shall I get to the letter I posted yesterday ?
Ans.—Answer will be satisfactory: especially in regard to something you
have suggested or asked.
Q.—Shall I get a letter from my friend F. before I leave America ?
A ms.—Yes, you will get a letter from him.
Q.—On what day did I leave Liverpool for New York ?
Ans.—Cannot answer. A date, day of month or week, wanted.
Q.—Is (a relative in England) well at this time ?
Ans.—He is not well, but will soon get over this little attack.
Q.—Has anything of importance happened to any of my friends or relatives
since I left England ?
Ans.—Yes, I think deep trouble; you are wanted from across water.
Q.—Who stole the money of the Ronels’ young friend, Miss Sheart ?
Ans.—Bring something belonging to, or used by, the thief, and we can
trace him out,
Q.—What was the name of my brother’s last ship ?
Ans.—Don’t know her name or your brother’s.
Q.—Who will be the first of my friends that I see on my return ?
Ans,—Cannot tell you that; don’t know who they will be.
In one case a word I had written was mistaken for another, giving
occasion for an answer which rather puzzled me till the blunder was
explained. Warned by some sinister answers to certain private ques¬
tions, I had asked, “ Shall I have any great anxiety before the end of
the year ?” the answer being, “ An annuity, or large sum of money—
that will seem large to you—which will produce income, will come to
you before the end of the year,’’ This prediction has not been fulfilled.
(Laughter.)
The questions were certainly read, and two of them were answered
rightly, while one was answered partly rightly but partly wrongly. But
these merely related to expected letters. In two cases I was told they
would arrive ; in one case the day that the letter would reach me was
accurately given. In the third case I was told, rightly, that a letter—
the writer not specified—would arrive about, and probably just after,
the time of my leaving, and that another would reach New York not
before I had arrived in England. In the same answer I was informed
that one of my letters would be “of considerable importance,” which
may have been suggested by my apparent solicitude, but certainly not
by the fact. As regards the test, the questions answered were either
those which suggested, or seemed to suggest, the answer expected, or to
which an answer could be given which had an even chance of being
right, or the answer to which could not, or not easily, be verified. The
others were evaded, usually on the plea of want of rapport. Thus this
plea was urged to a general question respecting one of my English rela¬
tives, whereas to a particular question relating to the health of another,
I got an answer, but such as I could not verify. There is one question,
from which, when answered, as it almost invariably is, in the affirma¬
tive, I can always infer the bad faith, I will not say of the clairvoyant,
but of the answering intelligence, whatever it may be. Ask if you are
yourself mediumistic, and a hundred to one you will be told that you
only require “development” to make a first-rate instrument of the
spirits. Dr. West’s assurance that I could become “a splendid medium,”
effectually prevented my counting upon the “ annuity’’which he had
likewise promised.
I submit this case to the society, remarking that it seems to establish
a distinction between abnormal sight and the preternatural intelligence
of things distant, past and future, which is supposed to be associated
with, and even to be characteristic of, clairvoyance. But its chief
41
value in my eyes is, that it is in all essential respects a reproduction of
that which was witnessed by Dr. Carpenter with Mr. Foster, excluding,
however, the possibility by which the learned doctor thought he could
account for all that happened. It is certain that West saw no part of
the pencil as I wrote my questions, and that he did read the latter,
while the folded slips of paper on which they were written were grasped
in his hand. (Applause.)
DR. CARPENTER’S WILD ASSUMPTIONS.
The Chairman asked Mr. Massey to read Dr. Carpenter’s explana¬
tion, upon which Mr. Massey read two pages from Carpenter’s Mental
Physiology.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that Dr. Carpenter’s statement was incon¬
sistent with itself, and self-contradictory, for he said that after he (Dr.
Carpenter) had written the name of a person, Foster, the medium, gave
him the time and cause of death. As Dr. Carpenter only wrote the
name, how did that give Foster the information as to the time and cause
of death? (Hear, hear, and applause). He submitted, therefore, that
Dr. Carpenter confuted himself upon his own thesis. Unconscious
cerebration was merely a way of getting out of a difficulty which Dr.
Carpenter could not explain, for that gentleman was utterly incompe¬
tent to account for the facts which he had himself set forth. Mr.
Massey need not have gone to America to see phenomena which were
plentiful in England: it was not that the phenomena did not exist in
this metropolis, but that honest and patient investigation of them were
not to be found. (Hear, hear.) The facts were such as to demand
investigation, and the leaders of public opinion must sooner or later
come forward and say whether or no these things were so. He hoped
that a society like their own would not scorn to walk in the steps of
the Dialectical Society by trying experiments and reporting upon them.
The public would be glad to have these things brought home to them,
would be glad to have reliable evidence relating to facts taking place in
the presence of trained observers. At present descriptions of facts
were coloured by too much sentiment, and the prepossessions on the
part of the observers were to be found not alone on the side of those
who believed in the manifestations. Let there be a fair field, and no
favour. (Applause.)
A member asked whether the name and date mentioned by Mr.
Stainton-Moses had not been given to Dr. Carpenter by raps, when
the latter pointed to the letters of the alphabet which he held in his
hand ?
Mr. Massey said that it was not stated so in the book; Dr. Carpenter
said that Foster brought out the words in reply on his arm in red letters.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he saw Foster a few days before Dr.
Carpenter, and that then Foster never touched the papers at all. He
(Serjeant Cox) read the question at a side table, so that Foster could
not see the pencil, and one of the strangers to Foster who was present
afterwards dropped the folded papers one by one upon the table, upon
which strong raps came when the right paper fell. The alphabet was
sometimes called over by a person who did not know what the question
was. The sentence written out always had relation to the person named
in the paper. Miss Mulock, the authoress, was present at the time, and
in the reply given by Foster it was stated that the person mentioned had
died in Wales ; the disease she died of and the inscription on her tomb¬
stone were also given. At that moment nobody knew what the folded
paper contained, but when it was opened it was found to have upon it
the name of a governess of Miss Mulock’s who had died in Wales, and
the particulars given by Foster were perfectly true. In ten or twelve
cases there was no mistaking the answers given in Foster’s presence.
A gentleman asked whether any facts were stated not known to some¬
body present.
Mr. Serjeant Cox: No. Therefore I think it was a kind of thought¬
reading:
Mr. J. E. Saunders, in speaking of the “ thought reading ” theory,
mentioned a singular case in point, and also one of clairvoyance.
In both of these instances he knew the parties to be incapable of
deception.
Mr. Munton also vouched for a remarkable example of clairvoyance in
the case of a lady of his acquaintance, where something was found,
owing to a communication of this character, and which could not have
been brought about by information in the ordinary way.
A member present said that thought reading did not cover the whole
of the phenomena that had been mentioned by Mr. Serjeant Cox. He
knew a clairvoyant who, at a distance of forty-four miles, described the
progress of the illness of a friend from day to day, and her statements
were invariably confirmed when letters arrived by post. One day she
said she would not enter the sick room any more, because the young
lady was dead, and the mother and sister were in the next room weeping.
This was scarcely believed, as the patient was not expected to die so
soon, yet the news was confirmed by post. This clairvoyant, perhaps,
gave thirty or forty revelations altogether, describing the room and the
pictures on the walls.
The President said that most of the cases he had seen he had traced
to thought reading. Such a phenomenon could almost be explained upon
physical grounds ; for instance, if two strings of the same length were
stretched to the same pitch, and a vibratory movement was given to
one of them, the other, although untouched would sound in unison, the
vibrations* being carried to it by the surrounding air and the floor of
the room. He expected that the sympathy between two brains was
of somewhat the same nature. It should be remembered that the
brain was very sensitive, also that one square inch of it was esti¬
mated to contain one hundred millions of fibres. Consequently it
was a very delicate instrument, and there was every reason to sup¬
pose that vibrations occurring in one brain would set up vibrations
of some of the fibres in another brain. They would remember what
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 28, 1876.
a frequent occurrence it was for two persons to suddenly begin to
speak at the same time in order to express the same thought.
Mr. Coffin asked whether Mr. Serjeant Cox supposed the vibrations
to be communicated from one brain to another by the ordinary ether,
or by the air, or by some hypothetical supernatural medium.
The President thought most likely by the air or by the ether. Very
small vibrations were conveyed by the atmosphere. He had been
present at some experiments shown by Sir Charles Wheatstone a
few days before his death, in which a sensitive flame, six inches
long, was placed in the room, and it was impossible to touch two
halfpence, however gently, in any part of the room, without the gas-
flame shortening itself to the sound.
Mr. Webster Glynes said that it was a fixed law in physics that two
strings should vibrate, as stated by Mr. Serjeant Cox, but it did not hold
good in the case of human brains; for instance, there were very few
brains in the world like Mr. Foster’s.
The President remarked that the power would vary according to the
structure of the brain; but he thought it probable that every person had
more or less sensitiveness to the thoughts of others. What a very
common thing it was, in the middle of a conversation about an absent
person, for that person to make his appearance, a familiar fact which
had given rise to the did proverb, “ Speak of the devil and he is sure to
appear.” He supposed that under abnormal conditions the brain might
become extraordinarily sensitive, and that was the case perhaps with
Foster.
Mr. Coffin said that he did not wish to be understood as agreeing with
the theory which the president had propounded.
Mr. Dunlop stated that he had known people who could read the
thoughts of persons, but not concealed writings. A well-known
Government Commissioner from the north of India went one day to see
Foster with a friend. They gave the names of Smith and Robinson.
One of them wrote the name of his deceased father, whilst the other
wrote the name of a young assistant-surgeon, Richard Halliwell, who |!!
died in India. Foster said to one of them, ” The spirit of Theophilus j(i
Mellor is in the room,” and to the other he said, “The spirit of Dick |)i
Halliwell is here.” Now the name of Mr. Halliwell never entered that |(i
man’s mind except as Dick Halliwell; he was familiarly known every- m
where and by everybody as “ Dick,” but in writing the name on paper if]
he had put the proper name, Richard; therefore it was clear that the ](]
name had not been obtained by reading what was on the paper, but by j|j
• some other method. ; -- I j)j
Mr. Massey said that the facts just stated were consistent with the I j ]
spiritual theory, as well as with the thought-reading theory.
Mr. Stainton-Moses narrated how he had been present among private j'lj
friends when a message was given purporting to come from a person iji
who had died in Shanklin; the name, day, and other particulars were |||
stated. Nobody present knew anything in relation to the statements, j)|
but, when the Globe newspaper came in that evening, the death was |ji
found recorded therein, with the exception of the Christian name of the m
deceased; so it was not known whether the latter were right or wrong. |)j
Next morning the same death was recorded in the Times, with the iji
Christian name of the deceased added, and it agreed with the name \)\
previously received. How could thought-reading account for such a i)i
circumstance as that ?
The President said that the society must define what it meant by m
“ matter ” and what it meant by “ spirit ” to avoid confusion in the dis- iji
cussions, and in a short paper which he would read at a future meeting, I) i
he would try to define what might be understood to be meant when these i j i
terms were used.
Mr. Tagore said that the president would do well if at the same time ni
he explained what he meant by the word “ supersensuous.” i] j
The proceedings then closed.
THE BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A SEANCE WITH MB. EGLINGTON. • iji
Last Saturday night a seance to witness physical manifestations ijj
through the mediumship of Mr. Eglington, was attended by several of ijj
the members of the Brixton Psychological Society at the house of Mr. j j i
Desmond Fitz- Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, 0, : j j
Loughboro’-road North, Brixton, S.W., Mr. Fitz-Gerald having kindly m
lent his drawing-room for the purpose. The seance was a dark one. j)!
Mr. Eglington had never been in the house before, and all through the I j i
first part of the sitting his hands were held—that on the one side by Hi
Mr. G. R. Tapp, and that on the other by Miss Ponder, who both testi- i i
fied that the hands of the medium were thus secured throughout the iji
entire sitting. Under these conditions some of the usual manifestations m
occurred; that is to say, the guitar flew about the room occasionally, |)|
playing tunes, and a very heavy musical box, about two feet long, also ijj
flew about while playing, and occasionally touched some of the sitters ijj
gently on the tops of their heads in its flight. During the second part iji
of the sitting the table was removed, and Mr. Eglington sat in the j i
centre of the circle, whilst all the spectators were seated in a ring round j j ]
him, clasping their hands. Under these conditions the music was iji
played as before, and a mouth organ was rapped upon the ceiling and ijj
floor alternately with considerable rapidity, that is to say, about twice i i
in a second. The knocks against the floor and ceiling were firm; it was iji
quite clear that the instrument was not thrown to produce the effect.
f II
The address of Mrs. Powell, widow of the late Mr. Powell, of the i i
Spiritual Times, is 27, River-street, Cambridgeport, Massachusetts.
An attempt is being made to reconstruct the Marylebone Society of jjj
Spiritualists on a new basis. An advertisement on the subject will be iji
found in another column. i|j
PROBABLE VISIT OF DR. SLADE TO ENGLAND.
For some weeks past a correspondence has been going on
between Prince Wittgenstein and Mr. Harrison, also be¬
tween Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Harrison, on the desirability
of encouraging first-rate American mediums to come to
England and to St. Petersburg. The result of this corre¬
spondence was that as Dr. Slade bears the general reputation
of being about the best test medium in America—at least
such is the estimate put upon him by most of the American
Spiritual periodicals, by Mr. Peebles, and by others—that
Prince Wittgenstein authorised Mr. Harrison to write to him
and offer him £4 per day to visit St. Petersburg for the
purposes of the Scientific Committee at the University there.
It was further proposed to him that his expenses from Hew
York to St. Petersburg and back, should be paid.
Mr. Blackburn’s desire, more recently expressed, was to
bring a good medium to England, to still further prove the
facts of materialisation, and to give stances at Great Russell-
street, in connection with the British National Association
of Spiritualists. He expressed himself willing to subscribe
largely towards this object, provided he could find others to
join him. He suggested that if the object of bringing over
a good medium were the obtaining of test materialisations,
Mrs. Andrews, through whom such phenomena first began
with regularity in America, would be the best one for the
purpose.
Just at the present time it seems to us that the presence of
a good test medium for physical manifestations, who can
obtain simple phenomena under all conditions, and in the
face of opposing influences, would be the best for English
Spiritualism, and Dr. Slade appears to answer to this de¬
scription. We say “ appears,” because it is necessary to be
careful, after all the exaggerated stories that have been
printed, for instance, about the Eddy brothers. It has
recently been revealed that few of their manifestations have
been given under test conditions, and that they are in every
way, so says Mr. Joy, an utterly untruthful and untrust¬
worthy family. Such being the case, of course their mani¬
festations would not be of the slightest value except under
severe physical tests, which as a general rule they do not give,
although the pressure of public opinion brought to bear
upon them may force them and their spirits to meet the
demand on the part of the public. Dr. Slade has a well-
established name as a test medium.
Good test mediums are always well off; they have a circle
of friends of their own, in whose homes they can give
seances, and are protected from insult and annoyance, so they
have little temptation to quit the locality in which they are
well established. Least of all would they care to do so to
face a committee of scientific men, seeing how unfairly
mediums have been treated, and how virulently abused by
the Harvard University in America, by Dr. Carpenter and
Professor Tyndall in England, and by others who in the
eyes of the uninformed multitude are supposed to represent
the scientific world, whether they do so in reality or not.
Thus it is possible that Dr. Slade, like our own Mr. Wil¬
liams, may not care to go to St. Petersburg for the sake of
money, but it would be a very different thing if Mr. Black¬
burn’s idea were put in force. He would get rest and regain
exhausted vitality during his journey across the Atlantic.
On his arrival he would for a time, at all events, be among
friends, and if the majority of his seances were at the out¬
set given to the members of the National Association of
Spiritualists, he would no doubt be willing to give test
seances also to disbelievers specially worth converting, in¬
cluding representatives of the chief London daily news¬
papers. Moreover, if he were brought to England, the St.
Petersburg committee would doubtless be pleased that he
had made a journey half-way to their city. What is pro¬
bably required to attract him or other good mediums the
rest of the distance, is some guarantee Jhat the members of
the St. Petersburg Scientific Committee are more honest
than most of those scientific men who have preceded them.
If the committee were to authenticate any manifestation its
members have already seen, as evidence that in order to save
their own skins they are not afraid to testify to any
abnormal phenomena they may witness, at once the chief
Jan. 28, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 48
obstacle to mediums going to St. Petersburg would be
removed.
The more remarkable features of Dr. Slade’s mediumship
are that when he holds a clean slate horizontally and high in
the air, in daylight, a pencil then upon it, but out of sight,
frequently rises on end and writes out a message. A crumb
of pencil placed between two clean slates, commonly writes
out messages in his presence. As in many other spiritual
manifestations, the actual act of writing is usually screened
from the eyesight of the observers, in accordance with some
psychical law not yet understood. Some time ago he also
obtained materialisations under test conditions, for he sat
outside a simply constructed cabinet with the spectators,
and faces appeared at the aperture. The faces, however,
were in most, if not in all cases, lifeless.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
Last Monday night there was a full attendance at one of the ordinary
fortnightly meetings of members, on the premises of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, in order to witness some experiments in mesmerism.
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., presided, and in the course of his opening
remarks said that the experiments about to be made by Mr. Redman
were intimately connected with the subject of Spiritualism. It was
thirty-five years since he (Dr. Gully) began his investigation of mes¬
merism, a subject which he took up in consequence of some experiments
which his friend, the late Dr. Elliotson, had made in the University
Hospital, and from the time he found it to be true he had constantly
used it as a remedial agent. Although it might take some time to
establish the real nature of mesmerism, it appeared to bear some
relation to the human spirit and to be more or less under its control.
He knew that the human body was acted upon by mesmerism when the
subject under influence was unaware that any attempts were being made
to mesmerise him. He had seen this proved in the year 1849 in the
case of Mr. P. P. Tytler, the historian, who was then under his medical
care. Mr. Tytler was married the second time to a young wife, at an
age when his brain had given way a little, so that he took a strong and
groundless dislike to his wife. He would never allow her to dress his
leg, although he knew that she desired to attend to him; in short, he
was snappish. When advised to try mesmerism he said he would rather
die fifty times than do so, so by his (Dr. Gully’s) advice, his wife at
noon-day made passes over her husband from head to heels while he
was asleep; although he knew nothing about it, directly he awoke he
called his wife his “ darling,” and from that moment would never let her
go out of his sight or let anybody else do anything for him. This case
might be called “ coincidence,” but if so it was a very remarkable
example. Mr. Tytler died three weeks afterwards. His wife was ever
afterwards very thankful that she had been advised to try mesmerism.
He (Dr. Gully) had made friends come to his house by simply willing
that they should do so. The practice of mesmerism seemed to have
fallen off. The Zoist, its organ, died some years ago, and the Mesmeric
Infirmary had since been given up. Although, for a time, mesmerism
seemed to have fallen into abeyance, it would be necessary to study it
in connection with Spiritualism, since it was a power that could not be
thought to depend upon muscle and flesh, but upon something far more
subtle.
Mr. S. R. Redman said that mesmerism was of two kinds, the one
depending much upon sympathy, and the other upon impressions. A
mesmeric subject felt a langour creeping over Iris limbs, then his eyes
closed as if little strings were pulling the lids down. He did not wish
to close them, but felt obliged to do so. Next he lost the senses of taste
and smell, his speech became paralysed, then his hearing went, and last
of all he lost his feeling. The sensitive was then in a state of sympathy
with the operator, wishing what he wished, and even thinking what he
thought. If the operator took anything to drink the patient thought
that he was drinking too. In so far as the philosophy of the subject
was concerned he (Mr. Redman) was a disciple of Dr. Dods, of America.
In the other mesmeric state the sensitive did whatever the operator
ordered him to do; it was a permanent state, that is to say that if the
mesmerist ordered him to do certain work he would go on doing it until
stopped; yet all this time the sensitive was trying with all his power to
break the spell ■without being able to do so. Suppose they assumed
man to consist of spirit, body, and soul, he thought that the spirit
might pass from the body, and the soul remain behind; in mesmerism
he had taken life from the body until only a flatter remained; he did
not know how much farther he might have gone in the experiment, and
should not like to try. In mesmerism they made downward passes
over the sensitive from head to foot, and it was the custom to awake him
with upward passes, which however were liable to give the subject a
headache. It was consequently better to put the backs of the hands
together, and throw them out horizontally in removing the influence.
In placing the patient under what was called “ biological ” control, the
method of action was different. He was peremptorily told to do cer¬
tain things, and that he had no power to refuse; in fact he was
brought strongly under the will of the operator. Mr. Redman illus¬
trated this by “ biologising,” as it is called, one of his sensitives. He
then made him forget his own name and take that of “Mary,” and
caused him to do several ridiculous things, as usual at mesmeric lec¬
tures. He then asked the sensitive, who was a young man about twenty
years of age, and named Martin, whether he was wide awake and in
his normal state, to which the reply “ Yes ” was given. “ And you are
perfectly sure your name is Mary ? ’’ said Mr. Redman. “ Yes, quite
| sure,” was the answer. Mr. Redman turned to the audience and
): remarked that a medium under control was in a similar state, and could
(: not be held more responsible for his actions than the youth upon the
i platform. He then said to the sensitive, “ Were you christened Mary ? ”
)j “ Yes, I suppose I was,” was the reply. The lecturer then pointed
\i out that in the mesmeric state of the individual before them the impres-
ji sion was fixed upon his mind, and that until it was removed by the
ji command of the operator he would firmly believe his name to be
si “ Mary.” He then asked the subject what dress he had on. He
)l replied that he had on a dark bodice. Mr. Redman said, “ Is there any
(; fringe on the dress?’’ and the answer was “ No, of course not.”
si Dr. Gully then put several questions to the sensitive, who at first did
) ; not appear to hear them, but afterwards stated that he had a headache,
j (j Dr. Gully said to him, “ What makes you say you are * Mary ’ ? ” and
! i he answered, “ Because I am Mary.” “ How long have you been so ? ”
|); said Dr. Gully. “ Ever since I was christened, I believe.” Dr. Gully
||j then felt his pulse, and said that it was singularly slow and weak, not
j)j more than fifty, tending to show that the patient was not in a state of
|) i excitement.
| (i Mr. Redman then made passes behind the sensitive without uttering
11 i a word, and the effect of the passes was evidently felt, for he slowly drew
|)| the subject in any direction he pleased by making passes behind him.
Mr. Redman next made him believe that he was a donkey, and caused
|) j him to walk about on all fours. Then he mesmerised another boy whose
|)| name was J. F. Berge, and who in a short time was caused to believe
\(\ himself to be Thomas William Moon. Mr. Redman then said to him,
j)j “ Are you responsible for your actions now?“Yes.” “If anybody
i (I told you to take anything from a shop would you do it P ” “ No.”
| j j “ Why not P ” “ Because it would not be right.” “ And your name is
|| Thomas William Moon ? ” “Yes.” Mr. Redman then made him be-
i j lieve that he was a bricklayer, and set him to work with some bricks,
11 i mortar, and an imaginary trowel, with which he laboured industriously
j/j for the next half-hour, while the mesmerist gave attention to the other
|j| sensitive.
nj Mr. Redman performed other experiments of the same kind, and
I | assured the company that they were all of an entirely genuine nature,
ijj He further said that the sensitives liked to be placed in that state;
| i many, he knew, came very willingly to his lectures, and he always gave
jh them free tickets.
| j I Dr. Gully remarked that he was once at a lecture where two boys
jjj were in a similar state, and he thought of the two first lines of the Iliad
jj in Greek; one of the boys repeated it in good Greek; he was a working
| J j boy, who had no knowledge of the language. This experiment was a
j | startling one, because he (Dr. Gully) was merely a spectator, and had
|(| not said anything.
|{| Mr. Redman said that at first, after Mr. Martin had been operated
j ! upon, he remembered all that he had been doing while under the
| | influence, but on subsequent occasions he had no such power of remem-
II i brance.
| ; Mr. King asked whether Mr. Redman had known sensitives to see
| i spirits while under the influence,
ijl Mr. Redman said “ No.”
i 11 Mr. Tapp asked Mr. Redman if he had ever found another power to
iji take possession of the sensitive, and to defy him.
jjj, Mr. Redman: No.
i j Mr. Rogers asked whether either of the boys could read Mr. Red-
i j man’s thoughts.
Mr. Redman said that he believed that such cases sometimes
|): occurred, although he had little opportunity to try experiments, because,
|j| in showing these things upon a public platform, the audience usually
|j| asked for amusement.
Mr. Harrison asked Mr. Redman to cause his sensitive to see spirits,
| \ | and the following conversation then took place between Mr. Redman
| j i and his subject.
| j I Mr. Redman—Did you ever see an angel ?
j I Mr. Martin—No; it is impossible.
| I Mr. Redman—All things are possible. Do you see that beautiful
jjj light there?
Mr. Martin—Yes. Three,
j j Mr. Redman—What lights are they ?
Mr. Martin—Gaslights, of course. (Laughter.)
Mr. Redman—But do you see that cloud, that dark cloud ? Do you
j j see it brightening ?
jjl Mr. Martin—Yes.
Mr. Redman—What do you see where it parts ?
Mr. Martin—The sun.
Mr. Redman—Do you see that spirit between the clouds ?
i) j Mr. Martin—I see something white.
Mr. Redman—Watch it well, and tell me what you see.
j j Mr. Martin—I see a white robe and a fair head of hair, and regular
j) features. Oh, she is so bright! She has her hands down under her
j j white robe. Oh, she has such a pretty face; she is below the clouds now.
Mr. Redman—She is coming to you.
Mr. Harrison, to Mr. Redman—Please tell him that the angel is
i j coming to inspire him to give an address to the public on the future life.
Mr. Redman, to the sensitive—Now stand still and speak; she is
j) \ coming to inspire you—to put words into your mouth.
Mr. Martin—Mankind, prepare ! Something is coming, but I cannot
i talk; she has a much better voice than I have.
Mr. Redman—That does not matter, she will speak through you.
i j; Say what she inspires you to utter.
Mr. Martin—Mankind, be up and doing, happier days will come.
| j | (Here he made a long pause.)
Mr. Redman—Speak the words she puts into your mouth. She is
j j j telling you about the future life.
Mr. Martin.—The future life will be a glorious one; there will be
1more angels like me, and one greater than all. I hear her speaking.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan, 28, 1876.
Mr. Redman.—How is she robed ?
Mr. Martin.—She has a long white robe and a fair head of hair, a
bright face, and her hands seem to be under the robe; she does not seem
to have any feet; she has blue eyes.
Mr. Redman—Ask her her name.
Mr. Martin—Will you tell me your name, Miss ? (Laughter.) She
says her name is Sarah Godbold.
Mr. Redman—Do you remember her ?
•Mr. Martin—Yes, but she is much prettier now.
Mr. Harrison said—I have asked for the performance of this experi¬
ment, because some of the older mesmerists, including Mr. Serjeant
Cox, think that mediums are mesmeric sensitives in the same state as
Mr. Martin, and that the will, or expectation of the audience that they
shall see spirits, acts upon them in the same way that Mr. Redman’s orders
act upon the sensitive now before us. There may be a certain amount
of truth in this, hut it will not cover everything.
Mr. Redman said that he intended to try some experiments in private
in order to solve many problems.
Mr. Gray wrote a name upon a piece of paper, and asked Mr. Red¬
man to will the sensitive to utter it.
Mr. Redman tried this, but without success.
Mr. C. C. Massey asked whether the minds of the sensitives would go
on working without Mr. Redman’s control.
Mr. Redman—Yes, I have only to suggest a thing, and they take that
as a starting point, their minds working away in unexpected directions;
sometimes they will be very witty. The mind seems to wander in
eccentric tracks.
Mr. Harrison asked whether, if these sensitives lived with Mr. Red¬
man, and he biologised them every day at meal times, making them
believe that they had plenty to eat, he could keep them alive for two
months; because a Yankee gentleman thought of starting a boarding
house upon that principle.
Mr. Redman said that it could not be done, hut that if it were prac¬
ticable, it would pay very well.
Dr. Gully then announced that a discussion upon the experiments
would take place in the rooms of the Association on Monday evening,
the 7th of February next.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
(Emesponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametricalty opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
OCCULTISM.
Sir,—I read with great interest the article by Colonel Olcott concern¬
ing the American “Theosophical Society”; also your review of the
same, headed “ What is Magic ” ? and your last correspondent on the
subject, who signed himself or herself “An English member of the
Theosophical Society.” With your permission I will briefly state my
views on the subject. As a Spiritualist I can receive no theory on sup¬
position, and would desire the “ Occultists ’* to produce their facts before
propounding a theory. I could hail with pleasure any new discovery
in the spiritual realm ; hut evidence must accompany it, as sound, as
weighty, as unequivocal, and as clearly cognisable to our sensory
faculties as those adduced to demonstrate the truth of spiritual com¬
munion. I would desire less reliance placed on ancient writings, and
more on hard matter-of-fact experiment. I would respectfully remind
our Occultist friends that their less gifted brethren are still engaged in
the terribly up-hill battle of Spiritualistic propaganda, and will receive
but scanty support in their arduous mission by the premature announce¬
ment of a spirit-monkey theory. If true, by all means let us receive the
knowledge; the onus of proof lies with the promoters. I would not as
a searcher after truth throw the slightest obstacle in their way, hut
think it my duty to jealously guard the Spiritualistic domain, not per¬
mitting the smallest encroachment either by friend or foe until they have
fairly earned the right to admission. If the Occultists are right in
their supposition, that elementary spirits exist, and produce many of
the physical phenomena at spirit circles, and that their action may be
subordinated to the human will, it were wise if they endeavoured to
utilise the power of these spirits in the interest of humanity in a
manner somewhat analogous to our employment of the inferior animals
in this mundane sphere. Perhaps Shakespeare was a prophet as well
as a poet when he endowed his masterly Prosper© with the power of
controlling and commanding the spirits of the air to his advantage.
Whatever we may think of this matter, it is certainly wise that every
department of human endeavour be left absolutely free and untram¬
melled, that Nature’s secrets may be explored from every intelligent
standpoint. Having made these comments, it may be well to state the
sometimes forgotten fact that Spiritualists have fought and struggled
through many weary years against the most intense public prejudice
and bigotry to establish the truth of the cause, and cannot therefore be
expected to lightly accept new theories based on somewhat doubtful
evidence, simply because a few from out their ranks, who claim to be
advanced, propound them.
If the members of the Theosophical Society deem their studies and
experiments of greater value to the human race than the promulgation
of the mighty truths of Spiritualism, they possess a perfect right to that
view of the case, but they must not complain if the great body of
spiritual pioneers declines to follow their lead. Speaking for myself I
would sincerely thank them (the Occultists) for any positive knowledge
they afford me relating to spirit—whether agreeable to my present con¬
victions or otherwise, but shall not yield an inch of ground until the
most conclusive evidence is furnished me. J. W. Mahoney.
1, Cambrian-place, Anglesej -street, Lozells, Birmingham.
ELEMENTARY SPIRITS.
Sir,—A belief in the existence of elementary spirits has been held
all along by the followers of Allan Kardec ; and the question seems to
me to be, not so much whether they are “ spirits other than those of
human origin,” as laid down by the modern Occultists, according to
your correspondent, an English member of the Theosophical Society;
but whether they may not be in one of the phases of the origin of
human beings ? In other words, whether we may not have been, once
upon a time, elementary spirits ourselves. The three questions, 1st,
That of men being “ sparks struck off from Deity itself,” as alleged in
‘ Spirit Teachings,’ and in other articles of The Spiritualist; 2nd,
The question of elementary spirits; and 3rdly, That of the incarnation
and reincarnation of spirits. These three questions have all cropped
up lately in such quick succession, and in such intimate connection
with each other as to give Spiritualists new sources for thought, and
perhaps for guidance; just as their perplexities were becoming almost
equal to their knowledge and their progress; stupendous as, indeed,
were some of the phenomena and scientific results attained by them.
But what about these “ elementaries” who appear to be, some of them,
as inconsequent and as selfish as can be well conceived, and what is
more, to all appearance, sometimes utterly unsympathetic, hard¬
hearted and treacherous towards their mediums; like the wolf, of
which the poet sings-—
Nor lodges pity in his shaggy breast.
Like the infant, who, on his mother’s bosom, the medium through whom
he draws his substance and his strength, meets the suffering he some¬
times causes her with a smile? What about these but that we learn,
by analogy, that life is an education, and that all must he ignorant,
weak, foolish, and inconsequent, if not unfeeling and brutal, before they
can he wise, and that knowledge comes but rarely by intuition ?
It appears, according to the spiritual law of progress, that all must
gain wisdom for themselves, however long they may be about it; so
that when perfect felicity comes with wisdom at length and for ever,
they may feel that they have learned good from evil by the physical
and moral sweat of their own brows.
Accorded, for example’s sake,
That every cure must find its ache.
Should we not suffering endure
That every ache may find its cure ?
By our own efforts we must rise
To know the value of a prize,
Learning the pleasure of obtaining
By the up-hill work of gaining.
And not, like senseless butterflies,
In careless, gay, unthinking guise,
Enjoy the sun we know not why,
And flutter till we fall and die.
The second proposition of the Occultists, as quoted by your correspon¬
dent, which alleges that “ the human will has power to control certain
classes of these spirits,” shows the very close connection that exists be¬
tween Spiritualism and magic; for that a magician may control and
be assisted by spirits without his even believing in them, is more than
probable, and that the movements of spirits are not confined to magic or
to Spiritualism, as we understand the latter, we may rest assured.
There is, however, one sensible difference between a magician and a
medium, as spoken of in modern terms. Whatever may be the advan¬
tages of the medium over the magician in many respects, in one the
magician is the superior. The magician controls his familiar spirits,
while the medium proper is generally controlled, though it is quite
possible (since we find that certain conjurors have now turned mediums)
that they were passive mediums all along, and were really the controlled
when they were playing the part of the controllers, just as a servant in
a comedy sometimes, by command of his master, takes his master’s
place. That spirits, to be controlled at all, must be of a low order,
none can doubt; but that some magic men, even of the present day,
have strong wills, combined with medium power, which in conjunction
fit them for this work, we can hardly question.
M. Kardec says in del et VEnfer (Heaven and Hell), p. 185:—
“ There is no method of compelling a spirit to come to you against his
will so long as he is your equal or your superior in morality, for you
have then no authority whatever over him. If he is your inferior you
can compel him to come, if it be for his good; for in that case other
spirits give you their assistance.” May we not then hope that some of
the conjurors may, by their superior moral attainments, greatly benefit,
in a moral sense, those of their familiars whose talents they so fre¬
quently hold in requisition, in return for the very material help given
them by the latter?
I once heard a conjuror ejaculate words which, being interpreted,
meant, “ Infernal spirits obey.” He spoke these words in his own
language on an English platform, and their result was the phenomenon
of matter passing through matter, and this occurred whenever these
words were pronounced in a well lighted room. For “ infernal ” let us
supplement the term “ elementary,” and perhaps we have gained the
key note of magic.
I once heard a conjuror, in the south of France, tell his audience
that strange objects which they unexpectedly found in their pockets
were placed there by the spirit of his grandfather. This observation
caused much laughter, hut I put down that fact also on the tablets of
my memory, for this last magic man was not contented with “ elemen¬
taries,” he went higher up the spiritual laddef than that, and many a
truth is spoken in apparent jest.
M. Kardec was quite in accord with the Occultists as regards the lack
of reasoning qualities in elementary spirits. He called them “primitive
spirits ”—esprits primitifs—and in his Ciel et VEnfer, p. 343, we find
the following:—“ An entirely primitive spirit would be but slightly ac¬
cessible to reason; but it is quite different in the case of those spirits
Jan. 28, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
who have had life experience.” "While, in drawing a distinction be¬
tween magic and Spiritualism, in answer to an attack from the Cardinal
Archbishop of Eheims, in the year 1865 (for the Archbishop of Tou¬
louse, wl^o wrote against Spiritualism a year or two ago, had been anti¬
cipated by the above-named prelate in high clerical denunciation against
the new heresy), M. Kardec says, in p. 158 of del et VEnfer, “ Magic,
by the aid of its formularies and cabalistic agency, had the reputation
of revealing secrets and working wonders, through constraining spirits to
bow to the will of men, for the satisfaction of their desires.” “ But
now-a-days,” he adds, “ we know that spirits are only the souls of men;
we call them solely for the purpose of receiving good counsel from them,
or with the view of giving good counsel to the unprogressed among
them, or through a desire to continue our rapport with beings whom we
love.” Primitive spirits, we may suppose, he regarded as spirits of
men in embryo, when, he said, “ spirits are only the souls of men.”
M. A. Cantab.
COLONEL OLCOTT ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA. !(!
Sin,—-Mr. C. C. Massey makes an important omission in his account j)j
of our sSance with Dr. H. Slade, in this city, on the evening of October !\|
14th, which I beg to supply. He describes the direct writing obtained m
when the medium and I held the slate under the edge of the table, and M
when the pencil was laid upon the table and the slate covered it over, i) j
and no one touched it. But we made one other experiment which I i|j
regarded as peculiarly satisfactory. I placed the pencil between Mr. jcj
Massey’s two new slates, and held them in my own hand, at my right m
side—away from Dr. Slade and next to Mr. Massey—and the writing i)j
was obtained as easily as before. As I have no mediumistic power 1(1
whatever, and as under the circumstances deception was impossible, it m
is a fair inference that the force exerted bg or through Slade can operate j)i
for the production of written messages independently of his personal j(j
contact with the thing to be written upon. In
I have had the same phenomenon occur in the presence of other jll
persons similarly endowed ; as, for instance, where pencil writing has j\j
come upon the under-side of a card upon whose face I was scribbling |)|
at the time, and inside a note-book placed in my bosom to try the j)j
experiment. I have also, in more than twenty cases, found the familiar ju
writing of a certain spirit friend inside letters delivered to me by the !>!
postman, upon my opening the envelopes—the letters coming from cor- m
respondents in various parts of the world, and some from persons who \(\
knew nothing and cared less about Spiritualistic phenomena.
In Lane’s Modern Egyptian you will find an account of the experi- j|j
ence which two visitors had with a famous sheikh, part of which bears j(|
upon this question. One of them desired an answer to a sealed letter, j)j
which he handed the sheikh and which was addressed to his own father, |(j
then living in a place far distant from the locality when the seance was !) j
occurring. The sheikh placed the letter behind one of the cushions of |)j
his divan, and shortly after turning down the cushion the visitor found |(|
his own letter gone and another addressed to himself, in his father’s jvj
familiar handwriting, replying to his questions and giving him unsought ! | i
information about things that moment transpiring at home.
Once this happened to me. I wrote a letter to a dear friend of mine hi
who resided several thousand miles away from here—in India. I laid l)j
it, sealed, upon the mantel-shelf, where I could have it under my eye ill
the whole time. In about an hour I looked and found my own envelope | > |
with unbroken seal, my own note inside, and inside that, and upon a j > j
sheet of coloured paper unlike anything in my own possession, and j \ \
unlike anything that I ever saw letters written upon in America, teas a hj
reply from my correspondent, in his own handwriting.
I might multiply stories of personal experience like this, but these Ijj
will suffice to illustrate my point, viz.: That there are certain subtle i > j
forces, which can be controlled by will-power to produce written com- j > j
m unications, even at great distances. Now, what are these forces, and :: i
how does will-power control them ? Can any Spiritualist, with only such I) j
knowledge as he has obtained in circles or through mediums, explain? |M
They can give vague theories, but only theories. It is not pretended |)i
that the writing is done, like ordinary writing, by a spirit’s tracing the hi
characters with ink or pencil. I have heard them say it is a chemical
effect; but how produced, pray? Some time since I sat with the \)\
President of the Photographic Section of the American Institute, to |)j
witness the slate writing of a certain Doctor Cozine, which is far more |:|
wonderful than Slade’s. The communications came upon the slate in j) j
bright blue and red colours, and no pencil or crayon was used by us, i)j
and I held one end of the slate myself. In my own experience I have |||
seen the writing in pastil, ink, lead-pencil, and slate pencil, to say |)|
nothing of the direct paintings of figures, flowers, and other objects on !>j
paper and satin; how are these done ?
Another point I wish to call attention to. In your issue of the 26th !) j
ultimo, I read some very sensible talk by Mr. Jencken (as, indeed, j>j
what he says generally is) about the cause of the lying communications \h
given by spirits. He puts this query. “Why was this? Was it that i)i
the messages came from very inferior beings, who surrounded particular i > j
individuals?" And he truthfully adds—“ circumstances such as these |)|
very much opposed the progress of Spiritualism.” No more pertinent |)j
question has been asked; no truer assertion made. It is high time that ! J i
this question should be pondered by every intelligent person interested
in the subject. We have gone on for nearly thirty years, receiving j)j
communications and viewing phenomena, and taking it for granted that I;!
nil those which are genuine are made by disembodied human spirits, j)
This has caused all the trouble, and made all the odium.
But the Eastern people make no such mistakes. They do not believe K!
that all their communications are from departed friends, nor all their i j |
physical phenomena produced by them. They know better. There is j>l
not a hungry fakir or tattered sheikh who could not have taught us where K j
to seek for the truth. They could have shown us how to produce slate- Kj
writing ourselves, or any other form of physical manifestation, by con- ‘U
trolling the currents of the “ Universal Ether ” by will power, and
calling in the help of the elementary beings who exist in its bosom.
They could have taught us what a direful calamity it is to yield to
physical mediumship to the extent of perfect passivity—which is the
same as saying to give oneself over as the helpless slave of the “ elemen-
taries.” Let us hope that when men of such character as Mr. Jencken
formulate questions like that which I have quoted above they will be
pondered over.
A few of us in this country have organised the Theosophical Society
for the express purpose of looking into the science which, so far as we
can discover, is alone competent to afford us this desired knowledge.
One would suppose that the inquiry was a proper one, and that, if we
could prove to Spiritualists that these “ very inferior beings ” of Mr.
Jencken’s do surround certain individuals — individuals known as
physical mediums—and made them lie, and cheat, and indulge in im¬
moral practices, we should be doing a very great service. But no sooner
did I broach the idea that the “ elementaries ” of the Theosophists,
the “ Dwellers of the Threshold ” of Bulwer, and these “ inferior beings’’
were identical, than I was set upon and gibed at by every noisy
creature who could handle a quill and gain access to the Spiritualist
papers. Worse than that; I, who had been thickly besmeared with
praise for my previous writings, was openly charged with conspiracy to
cheat a virtuous public; and some of these dogs—for their behaviour
shames the human species—fell to slandering good people, and circu¬
lating all sorts of calumnies about their private characters. But I, at
least, am not the man to be turned aside from the accomplishment of a
lawful purpose by any such means ; and now that we have begun our
investigations, we mean to pursue them until we get at the truth which
lies at the bottom of this filthy well. We look to the brave and true
souls in Great Britain, in France, in Russia, and all over the world,
for sympathy and help. We want you, above all, as representing the
better portion of English Spiritualism, to feel that not one of us has
the slightest sympathy with Free Love or Free Lovers, that we have
no selfish ends to promote, no dogmas to inculcate; that while we have
deep sympathy for the misfortunes of the unhappy people who are under
the dominion of “ inferior beings,” we neither consult them as guides to
philosophy nor as oracles of our departed friends. We study their cases
as the physician his patient; their phenomena as the scientific observer
any other manifestation of natural law. Our bread is cast upon the
waters: will you send it back to us after many days ?
Henry S. Olcott.
The Theosophical Society,
Mott Memorial Hall, (it, Madisoa-avenne, New York.
REINCARNATION.
Judge.—l'T)o you seriously think that what is invisible can be photographed?'*
Witness.—“Sir, the fact is, these things should be studied to be understood.”
Bug net's Trial, 1875.
Fat Cardinal.—“ If this world turns round as you say, how can I sit here without
being upset!"
Qalileo.—“Oh dear! oh dear!”
Sir,—Da obulum Belisario. To induce the editor of the Spiritual
Magazine for once to publish a short article pro repetitis incarnationibus,
I promised him that I would never trouble him again with any more of
my effusions on the subject, unless he wished me to do so. As he has
not expressed that wish in publishing Mr. Brevier’s reply to it, I must
keep my word as a gentleman, and, as a prudent man I will abstain from
knocking again at that door in Paternoster-row. Wishing, however, for
the sake of truth, to give a short rejoinder to Mr. Brevior, I crave the
hospitality of your periodical, and as a blind reincarnationist, like blind
Belisarius, I beg to rest awhile on the plinth of that amongst your
columns on the capital of which is written, “I allow others to express
a different opinion to my own.”
I do not intend bringing Mr. Brevior to the issue of an argument;
this would be a herculean feat beyond my strength. His resources for
slipping like an eel out of your hands are inexhaustible. You ask him
a single question, and instead of a straightforward reply, down he comes
with an avalanche of other questions and disquisitions, doubts, banter,
and sarcasm, wit, humour, and satire, quotations, scraps of poetry, and
lots of empty phrases, some well turned and polished, others such as
these—“ neo-paganism,” “ baneful superstition,” “ pestilential breath’’—
rather rough. You invite him to examine the claims of reincarnation,
and he refers you to fighting Bob; you appeal to his reason, and he
cackles, crows, and thrusts a roasted fowl before you. (See Spiritual
Magazine for September, 1875, page 421). This may be extremely
witty, but not worthy of grey-haired men as we both are, especially
when treating of a subject that may appear very funny to him, but
which has engaged the attention of the greatest minds of the world for
the last fifty centuries. He then coolly informs you that discussion is
not an infallible guide to truth. Certainly not, if carried on in this way.
With that perversion natural to sceptics, my friend Brevior has read all
my article wrong, and even makes me take Providence under my
pztronage, and mocks me as a new apostle. Was he not one of the first
apostles of Spiritualism ? And where would any just cause be without
first apostles ? Such an opponent I must give up, as he has spiritually
given up the Tyndalls, the Huxleys, the Carpenters, and the Brad-
laughs, who, to avenge themselves for this dereliction, persist in calling
him an “incorrigible idiot” for his belief in Spiritualism. But as
behind Mr. Brevior there are many English Spiritualists eager to know
what to think of the doctrine of reincarnation, it is well that I should
expose the art of sophistry employed by its opponents, and the flimsy
nature of the objections brought forward against one of the fundamental
doctrines of the spiritual philosophy.
To my question, whether he thought at least one incarnation neces¬
sary for the human soul, Mr. Brevior in reply expresses his doubt
whether even one incarnation for us is indispensable. (What a pity he
was not consulted in time on the subject!) Then, as if fresh from the
moon, he complains of the paucity of facts in favour of reincarnation.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 28, 1876.
I do not know exactly what he really means by facts ! Would he like |||
to handle the bones of his previous incarnations, or be made acquainted i( :
with the pedigree of the various families he has graced with his j1
presence? If so, I cannot satisfy him. But for reasonable facts: I j]
would [ask him, where was he [when, in the twenty-seventh year of ! <
modern Spiritualism, in the City of London (not in japan) there took i]
place one of the most memorable stances since the beginning of our j(
era—when spirit Thomas Ronalds, making himself visible, tangible, ! (
and audible, after stating that he had once been in the flesh of a !
Persian prince, showed to a great clairvoyante present the double of ; |
himself, dressed in Oriental costume ? How was that fact received by i j
those who will not give in to reincarnation? The Spiritual Magazine i|
curled its lips in aristocratic scorn, whilst another spiritual print of i)
most opposite tendencies, lashing itself into a perfect fury, declared ](
spirit Ronalds to be a fib-teller; his double was denounced on Brum- j
magem principle as a “manufactured article;” the clairvoyante, one of j
the best in London, was alleged to have been biologically bamboozled i j
(as if after forgery biologising was also necessary); and a ring, which \\
the spirit averred had belonged to him when a Persian, and which was j (
eventually found in a London shop, was pointed out as something more |!
poisonous than an asp.
Fact No. 2. In the same year of modern Spiritualism, Miss Lottie | (
Fowler, of world-wide fame, clairvoyantly saw spirits dressed in the i j
military uniform of the last century, surrounding and greeting the j)
present Prince Wittgenstein, in whom they recognised a chief who led j<
them in the battles of American independence. How was this fact ||
treated? The Spiritual Magazine did not remain mute this time, |r
called our kindly teachers of the spheres pigtailed company, and the |m
perpetrator of this piece of wit, ignoring even that spirit and body are j/|
things as distinct as a man and his coat, and that spirits see spiritual ;; i
things apart from matter, wondered how they could recognise the ij;
prince, considering that he is now a totally different person. When we i(j
see Spiritualists so ignorant of the first rudiments of the science of jcj
which they are fain to be the adepts, no wonder they are unfit for re- Hj
ceiving more advanced revelations, dat nivem sicut lanam, and that M
they are in themselves an example of the necessity of reincarnation, jjj
Asking for more facts ? After this inhospitable, irrational, irreverential
manner of receiving both the heavenly visitors and their teachings by j(j
a section of the London Spiritualists, with Mr. Brevier at their head, | j i
to be still hallooing for more facts is, to say the least, an impertinence.
Mr. Brevior hints at an exaggeration when I tell him that I could put
one thousand questions to him to prove the necessity of the doctrine of
reincarnation as a torch that makes clear the justice of God. I could i(i
ask him many more than a thousand; indeed, I could ask him as many
as there are unsolved problems in life—those problems which will ever i j i
puzzle him, and seldom a reincarnationist. He furthermore charges \\\
me with not fairly representing the arguments brought to bear against i(j
reincarnation. He thinks, perhaps, the following a crushing one: “ The :! I
theory of reincarnation destroys the principle of identity. If Elias was ;
really reincarnated in John the Baptist, then there no longer exists an
Elias or a John the Baptist.” (See Spiritual Magazine, 1864, page 101.)
When will the anti-reincamationists understand that reincarnation
means nothing else than a change of station, of abode, of circumstances, I j
in which to fortify and educate the spirit before entering into his eternal : {!
career? Where is the pity if John, besides Elias, had also been Adam ?
What affections, what interests, what laws would have been trampled
under foot? Who cares? Would the objector? He is much mistaken
if he thinks that naughty little Willie and the great English poet, author
and Nestor of English Spiritualism, are one and the same person. No;
his body has ten times been changed, and his spirit is no longer what it
was seventy years ago. And if he imagines that temporary oblivion of
the past is a destroyer of identity, his identity has been destroyed about
thirty thousand times in as many slumbers as he has had during his
stay on this earth. Considering the endless existence of man and the jU
infinite number of heavens forming the landmarks of his eternal career,
why this lamenting, why this whining about the score of lessons on i; i
matter and how to conquer it, when the time in taking them does not j(|
represent even the billionth-part of one breath of eternity? And why ijj
object to the spirit entering the spheres stronger and wiser by the ex- In
perience gathered through the plurality of his earthly existences? M'
Surely such objections are not worthy of the great and erudite thinker ijj
who projected them. Spiritualism is the study for ever, and it does not j(j
behove those who know that we have scarcely learnt its alpha, to close i)
and clasp the book, G. Damian t.
Naples, January 19th, 1876.
Silt,—In justice to myself, please allow me to inform the Continental
readers of The Spiritualist that my reference to “ Spiritualism in i|j
France,” although only published by you last week, was written and ijj
sent to you several months ago—in the summer of 1876, I believe. i(i
Your usual editorial fairness in giving space—even if late—to “all j)j
shades of opinion,” and the somewhat limited size of the old series of ijj
2'he Spiritualist, will at once explain the unavoidably tardy appearance if;
of a letter, the sentiments of which, I do not now, in all points,
endorse. When I wrote the above tynirc I was scarcely so “well in- ijj
formed” as to the many estimable foreigners who swear by a doctrine if
which I am bound to respect as a certain expression of influential ijj
public opinion, however much I may object to it, as my own present I j
personal belief. Therefore, without in the least retreating from the j j
position I still hold in regard to theoretical Spiritualism, I am inclined j j
to dispassionately examine the arguments of those clever and well-
meaning kinsfolk who preach the peculiar doctrines of the Adlan Kardec
school. Meanwhile, my sympathies run in the direction of the scientific
investigations represented by your journal. J. T, Markxey.
3, Crawthome-street, Peterboro’, Jan. 16.
DK. CARPENTER AND SPIRITUALISM.
To the Editor of “ The Edinburgh Daily Review."
Sir,—Is Spiritualism mere delusion and fraud, and if not, then what
amount of truth and substance is in it ? WThat are the facts which will
stand examination, and what are the tricks or pretensions which will bo
exposed to light immediately that the matter is thoroughly inquired
into ? These are questions worthy of being settled in the present day,
when doubts and unbeliefs regarding the possibility of the supernatural
are stealing into so many minds.
Edinburgh philosophers have never had an opportunity of investi¬
gating the subject of modem Spiritualism; we have no resident
Spiritualistic power, private or professional amongst us. How is this ?
Are the Spiritualists afraid to trust the examination of their pretensions
to the hard-headed Modern Athenians ? or is there no prophet or
apostle possessing sufficient enthusiasm to attempt to interest us in a
subject which, if true, affords a direct proof both of the existence of a
spiritual world and of a future state ?
Dr. Carpenter has a carefully written article in the Contemporary
Review of this month entitled “ The Fallacies of Testimony in Relation
to the Supernatural.” I confess I cannot regard this paper as a very
important contribution towards the removal of our difficulties.
Dr. Carpenter doubts if we have any adequate historical ground for
the belief that any departure from the laws of nature has ever taken
place. And, as regards the phenomena of modern Spiritualism, he
thinks they are to be explained as the result of visual illusion ; “ the
eye,” as has been said by Carlyle, ‘‘ sees what it brings the power to
see.” Prepossession in favotir of the illusions being at the foundation,
imagination does all the rest; or, to express it in conformity with the
Doctor’s physiological theory, “ changes in the cerebrum which answer
to the higher mental states act downwards upon the sensorium at its
base, in the same way as changes in the organs of sense act upwards
upon it, the same change being produced in the sensorium by the
action of the cerebrum as by the action of the external senses on it.”
These psychological and physiological explanations may, perhaps,
satisfy those who are entirely unread in works on Spiritualism, but
when we see through a now extensive literature—British and Ameri¬
can—that professors, statesmen, medical practitioners, naturalists,
lawyers, and judges are ready to give their names, and attest that they
have seen in private dwellings, and without the intervention of pro¬
fessional mediums, heavy tables, as in the instance attested by the
committee of the Dialectical Society of London, weighing WO lbs., rise in
the air and perform a variety of movements without any human con¬
tact, and that they have seen men and women float in the air, and have
seen phantom hands and entire phantom forms of deceased relatives
emerge in good gaslight, and grasp the hands and converse with the
spectators—when we read this we confess we scarcely feel that the
doctor’s explanation is the proper one, viz., that all these persons were
the fools of the senses; neither is it easy to believe that the witnesses
of the phenomena were in every case deceived by dexterous adepts.
Almost equally difficult is it to bring ourselves to believe that so many
private parties could be found so base as to perpetrate such deceptions
on their friends. Altogether we confess ourselves puzzled and adrift,
and unable to come to any satisfactory conclusion. Nor do we believe
that by mere reading any one can thoroughly satisfy his own mind on
a subject like this, which by its rapid growth has become one of the
most wonderful phenomena of modern times.
As one who confesses himself ready to stand for truth in whatever
unexpected form it may present itself, I think there is a call for some
of the leading Spiritualists of London to come to Edinburgh, and give
us a chance of judging regarding the matter. I think they will experi¬
ence no difficulty in collecting a party of inquirers perfectly capable of
giving a calm and unprejudiced examination, and who will at the same
time have their eyes open for the detection of anything like fraud.
That fraud has at times been practised by paid mediums is well
known; but it must be kept in mind that occasional cases of fraud no
more prove the entire falsity of all these mysterious manifestations than
a forged sovereign establishes the non-existence of the pure coin of the
realm. Investigator.
Edinburgh, Jan. 18, 1876.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
Sin,—The choice of a gold medal or £20, offered by the National
Association of Spiritualists, having been left to the option of the writer
of the prize essay, Miss Blackwell wishes me to state that she has
chosen the sum of money, in preference to the medal, only in order that
she might have the pleasure of restoring it to the cause she has most at
heart. The amount is to be divided equally between the needs of the
movement in England and in France, thus:—To the British National
Association of Spiritualists, £6; Harrison Testimonial, £2 ; Mr. Burns,
£2; Dr. Sexton, £1; the other £10 to the Kardec Society of Paris,
whose treasury has been severely drained by the expenses of the judicial
proceedings against M. Leymarie, and who have not, as yet, received
any assistance in the matter. Emily Kislingbury.
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—On Wednesday night, last week,
M rs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-squaro,
gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends, including Viscountess
Avenmore, Lady Milford, Mr. St. George Stock, Sir William Fairfax,
Lady Fairfax, Rev. Mr. Haweis, Mr. Eyre, Dr. Allman, Mrs. Allman,
Miss Otley, Dr. Rae, Mrs. Rae, Mr. Mosley, Mrs. Mosley, Mr. John C.
Ward, Mrs. Limond Strong, Mr. Charles Hope, Mrs. Charles Hope,
Miss Hope, Mr. Emmet, Miss Emmet, Mr. Wood, Mr. Napier, Mrs.
Showers, Miss Showers, Mr. Wedgwood, Miss Fowler, Rev. Mr. Fisher,
Mr. Buchanan, the Rey. Mr. Bayne, Mrs. Bayne, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
Jan. 28, 1876.
^tobinctal fletos.
UTTOXETER.
A TEST SEANCE WITH THE BATMFOBD BROTHERS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—On Saturday evening Mr. J. Bamford, of Macclesfield, andlxis
two sons, Joseph and Walter, gave a successful seance at my house in
the presence of ten persons. The younger brother, Walter, having his
hands securely fastened behind him, by stitching the sleeves to each
other and to his vest, was then securely sealed; he was next placed in
a calico bag, which was drawn tightly round his neck and again sealed;
he was also fastened to the chair on which he was seated and further
secured. A temporary cabinet of curtains was placed across a corner
of the well-lighted room, into which the medium and the chair were
carried ; a bell was placed on his knee, and was violently rung imme¬
diately on closing the curtains. Each person in succession was then
requested to place his or her hand between the curtain opening and in¬
side the cabinet, when the bell was placed in the hand of each in turn
and again taken away; fingers also touched the sitters’ hands, in some
cases giving a sharp pinch. We were then desired to place a marked
shilling and two rings on the boy’s knee, and the shilling was forthwith
transferred to the medium’s vest pocket, and a ring on to a finger of each
hand, as was ascertained by feeling through the bag ; this fact was also
confirmed after he was removed from it; the time taken was ten seconds
in each case. A small waiter with an empty glass, and a pint jug filled
with water, was placed on a stool inside the cabinet, and on closing the
curtain a portion of the water was poured out of the jug into the glass;
three raps were then given on the wall to signal us to look again : the
water was returned to the jug. This was repeated several times. The
jug, glass, and water were then removed from the stool on to the boy’s
knee, then back again; the water was next poured from the jug on to
the tray, and returned from the tray into the jug, which must have
been difficult in the semi-darkness of the cabinet. After the removal
of the tray and jug, a book (Hafed) was placed on the boy’s knee, the
curtains being drawn aside so that all could see the book oscillating
about; the cover was opened by invisible means and afterwards closed.
We took the boy out of the cabinet and found him, on removing the
bag, exactly the same as when first placed therein, the shilling in his
pocket and a ring on each finger. An accordion was then held under
the table by the boy Walter’s right hand, the keys downwards, his other
hand being on the table, and his feet visible; the accordion played a
few notes only, the power being almost exhausted. A slate was also
held by one corner under the table with one hand by the medium, the
other hand was on the table. A pencil was placed on the slate, when
writing was distinctly heard, a message being given on the under side
of the slate. The following morning, at about ten o’clock, a small
memorandum book was held in one hand of the boy Walter inside the
cabinet, himself kneeling on a chair outside, when a message was
written, “ Good-by to you all.” The elder boy Joseph is not so power¬
ful a physical medium, but being a writing medium, is very useful to
obtain directions. Mr. Bamford himself gives every facility for inves¬
tigation, and is desirous of giving every test the boys can obtain.
War. Vernon.
Uttoxeter.
MANCHESTER.
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
To the Editor of11 The Spiritualist.**
Sir,—I am prepared by experience to expect some weak results
after a brilliant success, and the law of reaction, applicable to any
force, shows itself here too. A real failure, however, seems impos¬
sible with my medium, when health is in good order, and if the
materialisation misses, raps or voices take an intensified character,
so much so, that apparently the amount of force is the same, only
concentrated in another channel. The other day, after vain attempts
to appear, the voice of the spirit “ Mike,” conversed with me in such
a manner, that I dropped at once the idea that the medium supplied
it in some way with her organism, and had it not have been in my
own room, I should have caught myself looking for a secret trap-door.
Enjoying our usual social glass at the table, raps came from dif¬
ferent parts of the room. I said, “ I suppose suspicion, vexation,
trouble, cynicism, and the like, which seem to us only so many mere
expressions of nothing but thoughts, are to you blocks of matter
barring your way to us?” Strong raps answered in the affirmative.
“ A perfectly harmonious circle, then, means the liquidity of our aura,
to make passage easy to you, and antagonistic minds harden it as
ice the river ?” Showers of raps expressed consent. As I do not
like to be always too serious, I continued—“ For all that, I don’t believe
in spirits, but I know you are honest. Tell me, are these things not all
done by the tricks of the medium ?” Loudly and quickly three knocks
came from all. So I asked, “ Do you believe in spirits ?” “ No ?” was
rapped with glee. “ Then we are sold ?” “ Yes,” was the reply.
“ Then,” I concluded, ” I shall be a sceptic until our next meeting.
Good night, ye rogues!” Then came a succession of raps, as if they
were trotting off laughing.
Yesterday I tried the paraffin process. The spirit came splendidly
(out of the net while the medium was in it) and peeped through an
aperture and over the top of the cabinet, her small hands playing with
the cross, which I gave to her under the same test conditions. After an
attempt at dipping the hand in the melted paraffin, the voice whispered,
“ We must have patience, we shall succeed ere long. We require so
much more power when we have to touch your earthly elements.’’ This
remark impressed me very much, especially when ” Mike ” confirmed
it with his manly voice. In the after sitting I got by raps a message
from one of our band, I presume. I copied it as it came, showing in¬
terruptions in clear transmission, but easily corrected:—“ Ester Barton,
earth life in the reign of King Henry VIII. I was hung Tybourn for
being a medium. I lived in Adington, Kent, with a prest who made
heaps of mo fomy power. He flowerd the advise of public opinion.
To save his life called me impostor.” (I asked his name.) “ Ruchard.”
C. Reimers.
2, Dude Avenue, Jan. 24,1876.
DUBLIN.
SPIRITUALISM IN DUBLIN.
'To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—As there are no public mediums in Dublin at present, and no
organisation among the resident Spiritualists, some account of what is
really going on in this city may not be uninteresting to the general
public. There appears to be less prejudice against Spiritualism in
Dublin than in many other places, and it has been treated with fairness
by at least a portion of the local press. Several private circles are held,
and the feeling of outsiders is rather that of interested curiosity than of
hostility, and many of the best known men in the town are known to be
more or less favourable to Spiritualism.
A few days ago I was favoured with an invitation to a private circle,
where nothing is done to precipitate results, but where the communica¬
tions given are as spontaneous as possible. The phenomena, though not
very striking, are well marked, and communications are obtained both
by tipping and rapping, the latter being very distinct and decided.
Two short messages of a general character were given by the alphabet
by tipping; but as only Christian names were given, they were less
satisfactory than could have been wished, though both were applicable
to myself. A small number, written down or spoken, would be rapped
out, and also, though with more difficulty, in answer to a mental request.
The message “ Love for God” was then spelt out by rapping, the drift
of the communication being different to what suggested itself to our
minds at the commencement.
A somewhat singular experiment was then tried with success. I
was requested to write down, out of sight of the sitters, any word of
three letters, cover over two, and look at the first. I therefore wrote
down U N D in large capitals, behind the cover of “ Hafed,” which
was lying on the large table at which I sat, away from the small one ;
and covered over the two last letters. The alphabet was twice called
over; no response. The third time D was given, then N, and lastly
not U, at which I was looking all the time, but A, thus translating the
German word inversely into English. We tried again, and AND was
given, thus again translating the German word directly, but the U they
would not give. Afterwards I wrote down AID, and the letters CFG
were given, each, be it noted, two letters (in point of alphabetical
order), from one of the written letters, though not in the same order.
We could not get anything nearer, but the above cases could not fairly
be attributed to thought-reading.
I have, however, received a letter giving an account of the develop¬
ment of healing mediumship at this circle, and append the following
extract: “ During our sittings the week after Christmas, we received
two communications informing us that we would soon receive instruc¬
tions enabling us to cure many diseases. Knowing a lady, an intimate
friend of mine, who has been suffering from acute rheumatism during
the last two or three years, we decided on trying what could be done to
afford relief. Accordingly we invited the lady to come on Sunday
evening last [Jan. 2], when we received instructions to make a liniment,
and rub it on the part affected on certain days, and in a peculiar way,
repeating the Lord’s Prayer three times during the rubbing. We lost
no time in trying the remedy. The third rubbing has now [Jan. 8]
been applied, and the lady has since been completely exempt from pain,
although she previously suffered extremely and continuously, especially
at night, which deprived her of rest and sleep, and is already much
improved in appearance, and in health and spirits. The communica¬
tion in reference to the curative power come to us altogether unsolicited
and unsuspected, as our desires and efforts were directed only to the
elucidation of the power to acquire proof of the great fact of the truth
and reality of the existence of another and independent order of in¬
visible beings, and their power to communicate with us.”
I may add that, although many things might be suggested to explain
the uses of the Lord’s Prayer in connection with the remedy, yet it is
to be hoped that no one would regard it in the most obvious, but lowest
and most materialistic light—that of a charm. I have no personal
knowledge of the case myself, but from the character and position of
the parties concerned, I cannot doubt the correctness of their state¬
ment. W. F. K.
Dublin, Jan. IS, 1870.
LIVERPOOL.
SUNDAY SERVICES IN LIVERPOOL.
The platform of the Liverpool Psychological Society was occupied
last Sunday by Dr. Ilitchman, Mr. Ainsworth, and Mr. J. Monck; the
latter was also the lecturer. He called attention to the words of the
psalmist, “ Let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us,” and ob¬
served that perfection existed only in the Lord ; in Him were all forms,
activities, and qualities absolutely and infinitely perfect. He was
the maker and former of all things. In His own divine nature existed
the infinitely perfect prototypes of all that was beautiful and good in
the universe and in man, and from the exhaustless fountain of His
wisdom emanated the plastic power which created and sustained them.
There was a divine beauty as well as a divine power, and wisdom, and
love. He added that this is a beautiful world, and retains many of the
lineaments of its divine prototype. We cannot open our eyes without
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 28, 1876.
seeing it, if our lives are at all attuned to the harmonies of the universe.
The attributes of the Creator were seen in the various hues of light that
flash and sparkle, in the rude and shapeless stones of the earth, in the
various combinations of mountain and valley, hill and dale, stream and
lake, and ocean, in the various forms and textures of the vegetable
creation, in grass and in forest, in slender plant and wide-spreading
tree, and, above all, in the flowers which seem to be the very embodi¬
ment of the most chaste and delicate beauty. The lineaments of the
Creator were seen in the beauty of the glories of night, when earth is
canopied by a broad firmament of jet gemmed with diamonds of suns.
If such was the grandeur of the material universe what must be the
radiant effulgence of that world of spirits of which this was the outward
and physical sign ? When he thought of the verities and purities of
that world, so wonderful that they surpassed all description, his heart
swelled with indescribable emotion ; he felt inclined to bow his head,
and his heart too, in shame that he should ever have a selfish wish, that
he should ever distrust the goodness of a love that manifested in such
forms, that made such provisions for the wants, and such a glorious
habitation for the dwelling-place of its children. The lecturer went
from beauty in matter to beauty in mind and spirit. He contended
that the human body is passive to the forces that act upon it. It offers
no resistance, except that which inheres in its substance ; it assumes
any shape that plastic power can give it. The body would take any
form the soul gave it; the soul was Ihe mould into which the body was
cast, and the outer form was the expression of the inner life. But to
the spirit was given the power of receiving or rejecting the higher life
that would mould it to the various forms of heaven. As beauty in the
material world originated in the divine love and wisdom, so human
beauty had its original in the same source. It had been said that man
was the maker of his own fortune, but it was equally true that he was
the maker of himself, of his own spiritual form ; he was every day
changing his features and moulding his form after a heavenly or in¬
ferior model, for man originated nothing ; his agency consisted only in
reception and in use. The way to become beautiful was to become
good ; and the way to become good was to live in harmony with nature,
and the inner promptings of the soul. “ Let the beauty of the Lord our
God be upon us ” should be the aim of men through life.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
A course of theological lectures, of a progressive character, is now
being delivered by the Rev. Alfred Payne, the pastor, in the Church
of the Divine Unity, every Sunday evening. Last Sunday “ The
Popular Doctrine of Hell,” was the subject, and in treating of the
doctrine in reference to God, he asked what should we think of a man
who put a dog in a baker’s oven and baked it alive ? The doctrine was
contrary to his moral sense, and if it was in the Bible he would be
compelled, for his part, to reject it. The popular method of taking the
texts in their literal meaning was wrong, and after quoting different
passages, both in the Old and New Testaments, he argued that the render¬
ing of the Hebrew word Sheol, and the Greek Hades, simply meant the
unseen world where all spirits pass, whether good or bad ; and even the
word “ everlasting ” simply meant “ for ages,” otherwise how could the
statement in the Psalms be accepted, that the doors of the temple were
everlasting ? In reference to the teaching of Jesus that a man was in
danger of hell fire for calling his brother a fool, it was simply symbolic.
They should not mistake a loving Father and make Him an omnipotent
fiend, nor should the jr turn love to fear. The doctrine in its aspects to
humanity ’changed natural instincts after death; it taught that a
mother would sing praises to the justice of God, while she knew that
her offspring were in everlasting torments. If a few years of punish¬
ment in this world, hardens a criminal and bars his return to a certain
extent to a higher life, what must be the feelings of the eternally
damned ? "When he looked abroad at the beauties of creation, they led
him to seek in imagination to pierce the veil of the unseen world, to
find there surpassing grandeur, for the tender mercies of the Lord were
over all His works. The lectures are well attended and among the
listeners are not a few Spiritualists.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s article on Mediumship has been re¬
printed from The Spiritualist in The Harbinger of Light, Australia.
The Birmingham Bazaar.—The Spiritualistic bazaar in Birmingham
was entirely successful. Whatever may be said against bazaars in
general, it is certain that in this case a fair nucleus of a building fund
has been realised, which could not have been obtained in any other
way under existing conditions. Gifts flowed in weekly from quarters
wholly unexpected ; the goods were sold at cheap rates, but none were
sacrificed. Every one was satisfied with the prices; a good round sum
was obtained, and sufficient goods left to make a good show on a future
occasion, supposing they are not sold privately in the meantime, which
is at present intended. The committee cordially thanks the various
contrib utors and purchasers.—R. Harper.
Imitation Manifestations.—Misses Wood and Fairlamb being away,
Mr. W. R. Armstrong, jun., gave an imitation seance to the other mem¬
bers of the Newcastle Spiritualist Society on Wednesday last week, to
show how much could be done in that way. He was handcuffed and
tied in a bag, yet made musical instruments jingle, and got his coat on
and off. Afterwards the bag was found to be tied inside instead of
outside. The handcuffs were probably a good specimen of turning
work in iron, in which no joint can be seen when handed round for
examination, but which can be instantly liberated from the chain by a
strong wrench in the right direction, like similar specimens of iron¬
work recently presented by Mr. Gledstanes to the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists.
| | PRESENTATION OF THE HARRISON TESTIMONIAL.
| \i At the soiree of the British National Association of Spiritualists on
| )| Wednesday evening next, to be held at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
| f | street, Regent-street, the presentation of the Testimonial to Mr. W. H.
i s| Harrison will form part of the evening’s proceedings. Mr. Martin R.
|>i Smith will occupy the chair, and will give an address suited to the
i (j occasion. Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., and Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.,
I s i will also address the meeting. Mr. W. H. Harrison will give a general
j )j review of the position of the Spiritual movement.
! (! The choir of the National Association—formed by the Misses Withall,
i VI whose efforts at the last soiree at 38, Great Russell-Stroet, gave much
i) l pleasure to all the listeners—has kindly promised to officiate on
! (| the approaching occasion. Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat) will
| Vj sing “ Joan of Arc ” {Lindsay Sloper), and “ Distant Shore ” (A. Sul-
) I livan) ; and Miss Ella Dietz will also contribute to the entertainment of
(| the company. The programme is therefore unusually attractive.-
Vj It is preferred that tickets be purchased beforehand, but they can be
) | obtained at the doors, price one shilling each.
vj Friends who intend to subscribe to the testimonial, but who have not
) j yet done so, are requested to inform the secretary at once. On reference
? i to the list in our advertisement columns it will be seen that considerable
(i additions have been made since last week, and the total amount, in-
)j eluding the guarantee fund, is at present between £600 and £700.
Vi Mr. T. P. Barkas lectured in Newcastle on Thursday evening last
5 j week on “ Recent Scientific Discoveries,” chiefly spectrum analysis,
(j which he illustrated by experiment. He considered that we were on
) j the eve of very great scientific discoveries, and said that it behoved his
■<jj listeners to investigate all new facts which they might hear or read
(i of from day to day ; to be impartial, and not to judge hastily if they
Vj happened to be contrary to their preconceived opinions. Mr. Armstrong,
)| Medical Officer of Health, occupied the chair.
(j Lecture at Brixton.—Last Tuesday evening, by invitation of the
V j Brixton Psychological Society, Dr. Sexton delivered at Gloucester Hall,
)j Brixton, a lecture entitled “ Objections to Spiritualism Stated and
vj Examined.” Mr. E. P. Ashton occupied the chair, and Dr. Sexton
V j was supported also by Mr. Desmond FitzGerald, vice-president of the
) j society. Throughout the lecturer’s masterly oration, no traces of his
V j recent illness were perceptible. Dr. Sexton soon riveted the attention
) j of his audience; and, in his peroration, appeared to kindle in all
(j present an enthusiasm for the truths which, by some amongst them, had
j v i been previously ignored or condemned. At the close, the lecturer re-
j) j ceived a unanimous vote of thanks, together with an invitation to revisit
j (j Brixton on an early occasion.
V j Mr. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. J. J. Morse, trance speaker, is
) j continuing his labours in the provinces, and during this week has
(j delivered trance addresses in Darlington and Saltburn-by-the-Sea. In
jf the former town the two meetings were held in the meeting room of the
Jj local Spiritualists, in Mount-street, and was well attended. Both
< | lectures gave great satisfaction to the audiences. A social meeting was
Vj held on Tuesday evening, a good company gathering. During next week
) j Mr. Morse will deliver trance addresses in Newcastle, at the Freemasons’
(i Hall, Newgate-street, on Sunday at 2.30 and 7 p.m., and on Monday
Vj and Wednesday at 8 p.m. A soirSe will take place on Thursday
)| at 6 p.m., at the same Hall. Mr. Morse’s other engagements are
(| Jarrow, February 8th, Bishop Auckland, February 13th, South Shields,
Vj February 22nd and 23rd, Glasgow, February 27th. He may be ad-
| dressed next week, care of Mr. J. Hare, 15, Chester-crescent, New-
\| castle-on-Tyne.
Vj Spiritual faces in Wax.—Professor Denton lectured in Paine Hall
(j yesterday afternoon, says Ihe Boston Advertiser, and at the close said
(j that he had hit upon a way to produce casts of the faces, hands, and
)j feet of the spirits. It was done in this way : Into a bucket containing
(j paraffin was poured hot water. The paraffin came to the surface, and
Vj if the finger or hand was immersed in it the paraffin would adhere,
) j and, cooling, the coating could be removed intact. Plaster could then
u be poured into the mould and a cast obtained. Professor Denton said
{j that in that way he had obtained casts of difEerent members of spiritual
) j bodies, and announced that the experiment would then and there be
j j tried. A pail of paraffin was brought forth, into which any one had an
j; opportunity to thrust his finger. The exact weight was taken, so that
) j if the spirits employed any of its contents the lessened weight would
| j show it. The pail of wax was placed beneath a table, the sides of
)j which, at least those towards the audience, were completely shut in by
)j a black cloth. Mrs. Hardy, a medium, took her place on the side of the
{j table, opposite the audience, and all left the platform except an inquiring
.) j sceptic who wished a nearer view. The hall was then darkened and the
jjj coming of the spirits awaited. The intervening time was taken up in a
j jl not very pleasant discussion between believers and non-believers,
j j j Mrs. Hardy announced once or twice to parties near that she heard the
j) j spirits at work with the paraffin, but the sceptic who sat near was not
j j | so fortunate. At length it was announced that the spirits had com-
| jj pleted their work. The table was removed, and beside the pail, on a
j)j shawl, borrowed from the audience, lay a mould of a face. The spirit
ijj had dipped its face in the paraffin several times, let it harden, de-
| jj posited the mask on the shawl, and withdrawn. The pail and its con-
j jj tents were weighed and found to be about 3 ounces lighter than when
jjj it went under the table. The mould and detached portions of wax
j i which the spirit had dropped in its manifestations weighed about 3
I'j ounces. Believers in Spiritualism found the mould warm to the touch;
non-believers did not. However, the mould was there, and apparently
by no human agency. A cast is to be made from the mould to ascer-
j tain, if possible, what departed spirit it represents. The Spiritualists
j were jubilant over the result, and non-believers were in a deeper maze
[ than ever.—Milwaukee Sentinel, Dec. 24.
Jan. 28, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF '■'•THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in 'Wobum-street).
ALL LETTEBS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd,,
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Scrjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by tlie thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by tlie Rev.
F. G. Lee. D.C.L. This newlyqmblished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6tl.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a;trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduting the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. ud.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothel's,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Od.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABIL IT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. Gs.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONAN-T. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s.6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardee. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
s, d.
15 0
7
7 0
7 6
7 6
7 0
7 6
8 G
7 6
5 0
7 6
2 0
3 0
3 G
7 6
2 6
3 G
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 G
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, aiid philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Go.) 4s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. . „ . . . .
The Seer. „III. „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . »
The Thinker. „ V. „ . • . ’ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .
Harbinger of Health , . ...
Harmonial Man: or. Thoughts for die Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ....
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . .■ , i- : . . . • 7 G
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of die World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spikitualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . ,60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . , . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 G
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, jiy John Fiske. M.A. . 10 G
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert fl. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Sinritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople.. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
i. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 0. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell,- Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the R#v.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thoma» R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
-good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, Dy
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the niediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. > By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnani. Is. Gtl.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 28, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Barts .
Baroness Adelina von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.8.
TeI.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq..
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Prince Emile Sayu-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.E.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.G.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order- the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritmtist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than ihis, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that for a special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
1‘elieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
List of Subscbiptions to January 5th, 1876.
Mr. Martin R. Smith £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn   50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze        50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne    .J.... ...;   40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder      20 0 0
A Friend      20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod     20 0 0
Comte de Bullet       20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe   15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart ! 10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D    10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein   6 0 0
F. S. A.   5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S.      5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D     5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe    5 0 0
klr. Charles Massey   5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald      5 0 0
A Friend       5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod    (Second Subsadption) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn....  „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey   „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder    „ „ 6 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.   „ „ 5 0 0
F. S. A   „ „ 5 0 0
Signor Damiani      3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood       2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald    2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S  2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery *        2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D    2 2 0
“ Ennesf&llen ”     2 2 0
Three Friends...  2 2 0
Col. Olcott  2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent     2 0 0
Dr. Baikie              2 0 0
Miss Douglas   2 0 0
M. H. C  2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland 1      2 0 0
Miss Aena Blackwell       2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook '.    1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King    110
Mr, F. A. Binney         110
Mr. J. Coates   .'.     110
Mrs. Maltby        110
Mrs. Kislingbury      110
Mr. B. W. Pycock ....;     110
Mr. B. Coleman    110
Mr. R. Fitton '     ;    110
Major Menars       11 0
Mr. John Lament       11 0
Mr. Archibald Lamont    1 1 0
Mr. T. B. Griffin    110
Mr. J. B. Stones        110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese     110
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear     110
Mr. O. E. Williams     110
Mr. A. Glendinning      110
Mr. H. Withall     110
Captain James     110
Mr. F.W. Percival..    110
Mr. Christian Reimers  1 1 0
Mr. Thos. Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant  110
Mrs. Geo. Neville      110
Mr. G. R. Tapp    110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson       110
Mrs. Wbodforde  110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss   110
A Friend       110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead   110
Mr. D. H. Wilson     110
Mrs. M.T. Wood        1 1 0
Mr. John Scott   1 1 0
Mr. C.T. Hook      1 1 0
Mr. W. White  1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy      1 1 0
Dr. W. Hitchman        1 1 0
Mr. E. D. Rogers   10 0
Mr. R. Corbet      10 0
M. B  1 0 0
Baroness von Vay       10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan         10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder      10 0
A Subscriber   10 0
Amicus      10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton    10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)    10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes  1 0 0
Mr. Geo. Lee   0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett   .'  0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands        0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin     0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin   0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp    0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald        0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock    0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton    0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts j,  0 10 0
J. F. C I     0 10 0
Mr. E. Storey     0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane    0 10 6
C. S. S.    0 10 0
A. B. O      0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy     0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury    0 5 0
“ Peterboro ”   0 5 0
A. O. W    0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald   0 5 0
A Clergyman        0 5 0
A Reader of Tiie Spiritualist   0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson    0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce      0 5 0
“Mercy”      0 5 0
An Old Friend    0 5 0
Small sums  0 5 3
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE OEIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Anyel in the tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regaid to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston,
U.S., early in January, commenced the publication
of a translation of the works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it
is devoting considerable space to Occult Philosophy. Subs¬
criptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from America.
Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the li erature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London; Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row, :
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
HTHE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenaeum. “ It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J- PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
Tbe Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Begenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment ; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches.; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘ THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shillhg
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the-Science and Ethics ot
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in tbe
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Enrol*.
The Contributore to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those win*
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunnliy,
Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.I;
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. iH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Liudesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, i dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Ofiice, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile-of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Oo,
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
