Registered as a Newspaper.
SX© joiffCKa©
©0YdSoi<o^idSi<
^dis<Nd^.
®Ib.esi x'xrmi^br bii^ S^xrxtxralxsm m <&xmt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque,246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraig, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 9x8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 237.——(VOL. X.—No. 10.) LONDON : FNIDAYj MARCH 9j 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arotuettts*
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
The Influence of Sitters upon Spiritual Manifestations... 109
Spiritualism and Insanity. In Two Parts. Part II. By
Eugene Crowell, M.D  ... ? 110
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury
and C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci    Ill
Spiritual Impressions in Borne. By Catherine Woodforde 112
Spiritualism and the Law     ... 113
The Origin of Birds 1    113
Spiritualists and the Oldham Election    ...114
The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone 114
A New Standard Work on Spiritualism 114
A Seance with Mr. Williams ...   114
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Prophetic
Dreams ...    115
A Seance with Mr. Lawrence   115
Poetry:—Spring        116
Correspondence:—An Incident—Statements relating to
the Doctrines of Allan Kardec—Spiritualists and the
Oldham Election—Words and Definitions—A Theory
relating to Evil Influences—The Isle of Wight Lec¬
tures—Transformation Phenomena 116
Dr. Monck        118
A Trance Address  ...   119
The Middlesex Magisxrates and the Slade Case 120
Paragraphs:—Paid Mediums, 112; Birth, 114 ;|Spiritualism
in Liverpool, 115; A Case of Distress, 115 ; Edouard
Buguet, '119; Trade Tricks, 119; Mr. J. J. Morse in
South Wales   ...   120
“THE .SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IK 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
sts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. E. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, E.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, E.G.S. “ Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Oourt of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake,Doc. Sci.,Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Duxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. flonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr.'William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ;(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedJKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
T3EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
JL\> Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d, Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for March, 1877.
Friday, 9(A.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6,30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Saturday, 10<A.—Trance Seance at 3 p.m. Mr. Colville,
medium.
Tuesday, 13fh.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.80 p.m.
Friday, XCth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee's Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 19th.—Library Committee at 7 p.m.
„ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Thursday, 22nd.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offiees Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every THURSDAY evening at 8
p.m. Seances for Members and Subscribers only every Tuesday
evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. Applications for tickets
must always be made In advance.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 88, Great Russell-street, will he closed for the
Easter Holidays on the 29th of March,'and will re-open on
Monday, the 9th of April.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEAN CES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can he purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next ^Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday, March
5th, at 8 p.m. Subject:—“Physical Science and Spiritual
Psychology,” by D. G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
 E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
   H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
NOTICE TO SPIRITUALISTS ONLY.
R. W. EGLINTON has arranged for another
seance at Mrs. Olive’s, 15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-
road, N.W., on Wednesday, March 14th, 1877. Tickets, 5s., of
Mrs. Olive.
Medical mesmerism and galvan¬
ism.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
HEMATITE IRON ORE.
CLAIRVOYANCE, the only Royal Road to
the Discovery of Mineral Deposits—vide Professor
Denton’s works. The Advertiser is desirous of a Capitalist to
join him in proving and developing a few good Royalties now
open. One already developed that success is certain. For
terms, &c.. address — Mr. John Kellett, Mount Pleasant,
Greenodd, Ulverstone. 
SPIRITISM versus SPIRITUALISM. Price 6d.
J. McGeacby, Union-street, Glasgow.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts afl'eeting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association haveHhe privilege of attending the •public seances of
several'.well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct oiseances,” and library catalogue,
•with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
OFFICE OF “ LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,”
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
RS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Club are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-Glass pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —A com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
I860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price £5 5s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCR'OFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Maech 9, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-bmld-
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C„ Barrister-at-law, 98, Pottland-place, W.
Kogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W -
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra'
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. Jaraes, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vllla, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Eichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Eev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Soutnsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lyntoq-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester. .
Houghton. Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo,, Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Kogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
raaa, S E
Strawhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M. A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, 1). H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ a, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith) Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.! Mr. Morell Theobald.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUniori, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
' London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq:, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. A-nton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pestl). Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—ULi. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to.attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj€Capoussou,
Constantinople.
f he Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Yay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-ETysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Rol de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mlttra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Glide Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, .Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D,, care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue.de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
It. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinuery, Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to .by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
/CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
v_y ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. .
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM. EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terraee, King
Henry.’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MR. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.O.
"RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs-
   days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34,
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address,. “ Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manaqeb—Mbs. A. C. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
S.ade.—2jd.. post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13; St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
_L\j logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The hanner s a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russeil-street, London, W.C,
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15 St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
V
eJ/©
eJ/b
]|njtnjir tl j|| tl % mm. ^
Volume Tejm. Kumber Ten,
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 9th, 1877.
THE INFLUENCE OF SITTERS UPON SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATION'S.
When a particular kind of manifestation has been specially ! I
developed for some years through the mediumship of an
individual, that manifestation can usually be produced with j|
tolerable certainty in the presence of persons with whom j
the medium feels no sympathy, and who are opposed in the !
strongest degree to the facts which they then witness. The |
Davenport Brothers, for instance, never fail in their mani- |
festations before public audiences, and are in as full force j
now as they were years ago. At the present time they are !
in Australia, where the phenomena produced in their j
presence have baffled the intelligence and experiments of the |
daily newspaper representatives, and of all the critical ob- ||
servers who have been present at the seances. The Australian | c
press has unanimously agreed that there is no trickery about |
the cabinet or the cords used. Dr. Slade was very sure of !
his manifestations, so that nearly every one of them was a |
success. Of course by chance it was possible to be present |
at one or two weak or inconclusive stances, but any properly |
qualified and patient observer who had five or six sittings ||
with him was sure to be convinced of the reality of the | j
phenomena. Mrs. Fay likewise scarcely ever failed; she I)
obtained genuine phenomena before public audiences, but in j
order to avoid abuse refused to make any statement to dis- !
believers as to the cause of that which they witnessed. |
Strong and certain manifestations such as these are the j
result of the long and continuous sitting of a strong medium j j
for one particular class of manifestation. The circumstance j j
that, practically speaking, such results can be obtained at j
any time, and in the face of the greatest disbelievers, is a j
complete answer to any unfounded assertion that the mani- !
festations can be witnessed only by thorough believers. The j
first manifestations witnessed by anybody are usually those j j
which he obtains in his own house with his own family, while j
sitting in the attempt to evolve phenomena as to the actual j j
occurrence of which every person present was at the outset j <
doubtful. : . , |
Nevertheless, there are certain mental and spiritual con- j
ditions which, under all circumstances, favour the evolution |
of the phenomena, especially when the manifestations are , j
in their first stages of development. The primary condition j
is that everybody present shall be thoroughly comfortable j j
and happy, possessing full confidence in each other, and all j
bound by ties of affection or of kindly feeling to the j j
medium. Once we asked Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox)—who |
has had longer experience in physical mediumship than any !
other living person—what she had found to weaken the |
manifestations more than anything else. She replied that j j
if she had a dislike to any person in the circle it had a , j
powerful effect in stopping the manifestations. The few ||
Spiritualists who have strong physical mediums in their own |
homes know that this is the case, and can almost tell before- !
hand the quality of .a forthcoming seance if they have had ' | j
experience of the nature of the sitters who will be present, [ j
all other conditions being the same. Thus Spiritualism is ! j
to a considerable extent a u science of the affections.” j j
On the principles herein laid down it will be seen that |
spiritual phenomena have a tendency to exclude people of a j
particular order of mind, and to include others. The man ||
who considers all his neighbours to be rogues and thieves, if j j
they can get the chance, because, like every living soul he 11
has an unconscious tendency to judge the world at large by ||
the standard of his own moral nature, comes into the pre- I \
sence of a medium with the preconceived idea that that j j
medium is an out-and-out impostor. The medium feels or j
surmises this, and is naturally irritated thereat; the har- ||
mony of the circle is broken, and no manifestations are I
obtained, except, perhaps, a few of ah inconclusive and sus j[
picious nature. The philosophy of this result is that, the
mind of the medium was not in a passive and happy state—
two conditions essential, as all mesmerists know, for passing
into the trance, or into abnormal states ejusdem generis. By
giving attention to these conditions, it is possible to tell
beforehand what persons it is judicious to invite to a spirit-
circle. The harsh and rapacious man, the individual who
lives only for himself and cares little for the happiness of
those around him is out of his element in a spirit-
circle ; he has an innate feeling that if the facts revealed
thereat are true, if there is a life beyond the grave, in which
the happiness or misery of every living soul depends upon
its previous work here below, this Spiritualism must, if
justice prevails in the universe, have a terrible hereafter in
store for him. He therefore does not want it, and clutches
with avidity at his antecedent conviction that the whole
thing is an imposture. The consequence is that he mars
the harmony of the circle, spoils the seance for those who
might have been converted with the better phenomena, he
irritates the medium, and in some few cases the proceedings
are finally wound up in a police-court, all this trouble being
due to those irrational and enthusiastic Spiritualists who
attempt to force Spiritualism down the throats of those not
prepared to receive it, and who dragged or pushed an unfit
person into the circle against his own inclinations. Those
who have much to do with the guidance of mediums and of
spirit-circles have come to the conclusion that nobody should
be allowed to come to a seance until, without any pressing, he
has asked several times for admission; inquirers should
never be invited without one or two previous solicitations
having been voluntarily made by themselves. Even then,
if they assert that it is all imposture, and that they would
expose it if admitted, they should be refused, because they
have no right to assume that the long array of intelligent
and honourable men and women connected with Spiritualism
are the dupes of imposture; if such is their opinion, their
overwhelming self-conceit denotes them to be people whose
entrance into our ranks would do no honour to the cause of
Spiritualism, consequently it is to our advantage they should
remain outside the movement, and they should be told so.
When such conditions as these are generally attended to,
the phenomena will develope with far more rapidity than at
present. The mediums and honourable members of circles
will be protected from annoyance, and a philosophy to chain
together the observed facts will be more rapidly evolved. It
is a far wiser line of action on the part of Spiritualists to
strengthen and improve the movement from within, rather
than to drag in doubtful and weakening elements from with¬
out,
There would be no wisdom in making the manifestations
more precise, so that they could be under, command at all
times even if the power existed so to do. As we have frequently
remarked in this journal, a fact which can be demonstrated to
everybody must be believed by all who see it; for instance,
both the bishop and the burglar can be made to believe that
an iron bar is a yard long, if it is proved to be that lenthg
by measurement before their eyes. If the phenomena of
Spiritualism could be presented with equal precision, all
kinds and conditions of men would in like manner be brought
into the movement, so it would exercise no religious segregat¬
ing effect whatever ; but as matters now stand, only people
who trust each other, who are tied together by cords of
spiritual sympathy, can come into the spiritual movement;
jarring spiritual and moral elements are shut out. Thus we
are a spiritual and united people, united by bonds so strong
that if one member of the community is injured all the rest
feel it, There are, of course, degrees of spirituality and of
spiritual union even among Spiritualists. There is the
lowest class of believers, who never get beyond the physical
110 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 9, 1877.
phenomena, and who do not care for these except when they
are evolved under test conditions ; these sit at dark circles,
grasping each other’s hands, because (unconsciously judging
their neighbours by themselves) they cannot trusteach other to
any great extent, and when any little thing occurs cry out
“Did you do that? Now mind, you must not cheat!”
Then again there is the highest class of spiritual circle, com¬
posed of people into whose minds it is impossible for the idea
to enter for an instant that they could possibly play tricks
with each other, or say what was not true. If any person in
such a circle were to say, “ Did you do that ? ” or should ask
that all hands should be joined to prevent the possibility of
trickery, the presence of such an individual would instantly
be felt to be a degradation to all present. The feeling to¬
wards him would be the same as that of an ordinary English
man to those of the natives of India who are notorious for
their unblushing lying, who say what is not true as a matter
of course, and never dream of anything in the shape of shame
at its being discovered. The ditference between the two cases
is one of degree and not one of kind. At these first-class
circles the best phenomena are evolved; they are such as the
lower class do not deserve and cannot see, and at the best
circles only can the highest results be obtained. The sitters
are not necessarily credulous, any more than a truthful
Englishman in Bombay is credulous in proving himself more
than a match for the habitual lying, of the natives around
him. The members of such a circle are quite competent—
indeed more competent than others—to detect the impish and
low character of many of the intelligences who produce the
physical manifestations, and to take whatever steps may be
necessary in relation thereto.
How pure at heart and sound in head,
With what divine affection bold,
Should be the man whose thoughts would hold,
An hour’s communion with the dead!
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITY.
IN TWO PASTS.—PAST II.
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Deeming it of importance to the full and complete presen¬
tation of this subject, that the testimony of some of the oldest
and most highly-respected investigators and advocates of
Spiritualism in this country, should be included, I addressed
'to them the following questions:—
1st.—For how many years have you taken an active interest in Spiritualism?
2nd.—During that period in how many instances have you known Spirit¬
ualists to become insane ?
3rd.—In how many of these cases, as far as you have knowledge, was the
belief in Spiritualism the exciting cause of the insanity ?
Their replies, in substance, are as follow:—
Epes Sargent has given his attention to Spiritual pheno¬
mena for nearly thirty years, and says—“ You ask in how
many instances I have known Spiritualists to become insane ?
I have known but one instance. I have read reports of
such cases in the newspapers, but I have never had them
so verified that I could accept them as facts to be remem¬
bered. . . . My own belief is that Spiritualism, by bringing
all the phenomena of apparitions, second sight, clairvoyance,
witchcraft, &c., within the sphere of the natural, will do
much to allay excitement and cure superstition on all such
subjects, and thus help to prevent the insanity which finds
its development in morbid and gloomy religious views, or in
a dread of the unnatural in any form.”
Robert Dale Owen says—“I engaged in the study of
Spiritualism and cognate subjects more than twenty-one
years ago, and have taken an active interest in the matter
ever since. During that time I do not recollect, among all
my acquaintances, a single Spiritualist who has become
insane. I myself, after a dangerous illness in the summer
of 1874, was, during nearly two months, insane: cause,
insomnia and over-taxation of the brain. My family, and
Dr. Everts, superintendent of the hospital in which I was,
testify that the subject of Spiritualism did not occupy my
thoughts, and had nothing to do with my malady. In the
Debatable Land (pp. 523, 524) I have given two examples
which came to my knowledge of the cure, by spiritual in¬
fluence, of insanity, one of the cases being of six years’
standing. Since then a third case has come within my
i! personal knowledge, that of a mother who lost a favourite
! child by a sudden and terrible accident occurring almost
I under her eyes, and whose incipient insane symptoms were
| arrested and she restored to her right mind by communica-
| tions from her child, embodying incontrovertible evidence
of his identity.”
The Rev. Dr. Watson has taken an active interest in
| Spiritualism for twenty-four years, and says: “ I have never
| personally known a single case of a Spiritualist becoming
j insane. . . I have been in the North-Western States, by
j invitation, to lecture, as far north as Minnesota, and have
! made inquiry, but have never been able to find a person who
| has been made insane by a belief in Spiritualism. Yet those
| who oppose it continue to publish falsehoods in regard to
| this matter.”
Hudson Tuttle has devoted twenty-six years to the pro-
| mulgation of the truths of Spiritualism, and has no personal
! knowledge of any case where insanity was caused by it, but
s gives it as his opinion that “ religious excitement is a prolific
| cause, while Spiritualism leads directly away from insanity.”
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten says : “ My connection with
■ Spiritualism has extended over a period of eighteen years,
| and I have known of two instances where Spiritualists
I became insane.”
Professor J. R. Buchanan says: “I have been interested
in the spiritual phenomena many years; my first experi¬
ments having been performed in 1841. In the thirty-five
years since I do not now recollect that any Spiritualists of
my acquaintance have become insane, which is the more
remarkable, as the refined and spiritual temperament which
sympathises with Spiritualism is of course more sensitive
than a coarser organisation of mind and body.”
Professor Wm. Denton replies: “ I have taken an active
I interest in Spiritualism for about twenty-five years; yet
during that time, although I have heard of persons becoming
insane through Spiritualism, I have never known of a single
case.”
Allen Putnam, for more than twenty-four years, has
believed in, and been a student of Spiritualism, and says:
“ One or two cases—I think not more than two—within my
observation, have become insane where there seemed to be
no obvious impropriety in ascribing their sad condition to
the action of Spiritualism. . .. Had you inquired for my
belief as to the number of nervous, irritable, desponding,
and obsessed persons who have been saved by Spiritualism
from falling into insanity, I could have said more than two
dozen.”
Andrew Jackson Davis has been actively interested in
Spiritualism for thirty years, and writes : “ I cannot truth¬
fully say that I have knowledge of a single case of what in
my opinion was insanity, where Spiritualism was the real
cause.”
Henry J. Newton says: “ I have been interested in
Spiritualism twenty-four years, about ten years of which
time I have been officially connected with organisations for
its promulgation .... I have never known a Spiritualist to
become insane. I am in possession of facts, through the
testimony of others, where the insane have been cured of
their insanity by Spiritualism, through mediums, or spirits
acting through mediums.”
W. H. Harrison, one of the oldest, most able, and active
Spiritualists in England, says, in The Spiritualist: “With
all my long acquaintance with the movement, I do not know
of a single Spiritualist in Great Britain now incarcerated
for insanity.”
Where a Catholic or orthodox Protestant becomes insane,
his insanity—unless of a decidedly religious cast—is never
attributed to the influence of his religious belief, while, on
the contrary, if a Spiritualist, exposed like others to the
many exciting causes of insanity, becomes insane, his in¬
sanity is at once, by most persons, ascribed to his belief in
Spiritualism.
“ Spiritualism,” say they, “ drives people to insanity—
ergo, he being insane, and a Spiritualist, his belief is the
cause of his insanity.” A deduction from false premises, as
the statistics of insanity here presented prove it to be.
The charge against Spiritualism of its tendency to unsettle
the mind is nothing new. The same accusation has in all
ages of the world been hurled against every reform move-
March 9, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
ment, and against every reformer, and even Jesus himself
did not escape this charge, for it was said of him,. “ He hath
a devil, and is mad.”
If Spiritualism were the successful recruiting agency for
insane asylums that persons of active imagination like Dr.
Forbes Winslow and Rev. Dr. Talmage declare it to be, the
physicians and managers of our institutions for the insane
would be culpable in the highest degree for their failure to
raise a warning voice against such an efficient cause of in¬
sanity; but while many other exciting causes of insanity
are pointed out and commented on in their published reports
by the medical superintendents of the various asylums, so
few are the cases originating in this cause, that in no single
report or letter received by me does it appear to have been
thought necessary to admonish the public against Spirit¬
ualism as one of these exciting causes. The number of
cases is given without a word of comment.
In the comparatively few instances in which Spiritualists
have, from some of the many exciting causes which produce
insanity in others, become insane, I believe it would be diffi¬
cult to find a single case in which the insanity has been
characterised, in any considerable degree, by the misery and
despair of mind that so frequently attend upon those whose
insanity is caused by religious excitement. While the terri¬
fying and dismal hallucinations of various patients, insane
from the latter, are minutely described, there is not in any
of the published reports a single allusion to any similar
hallucination, on the part of a patient in whose case Spirit¬
ualism is assigned as the cause.
An intelligent belief in Spiritualism favours those condi¬
tions of mind and body upon which sanity depends. Being
both a religion and a philosophy, it is based upon demon¬
stration, which annihilates all the terrors of false theology
by proving the falsity of endless or vindictive punishment,
while at the same time it proves, to the satisfaction of every
earnest seeker, that there is a happier and better world, in
which Divine wisdom and love have made ample provision for
the needs of every soul; where even the vilest outcast of earth
shall under the all-protecting care and guidance of the
Father’s infinite love, be ultimately exalted to companion¬
ship with the purified and blest.
Strange indeed would it be if the belief in such a religion
tended to insanity, and it should be a source of satisfaction
and justifiable pride to every Spiritualist, to know that official
statistics prove the calumny to be unfounded and unjust.
Brooklyn, New York, February, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY KlSLlNGBUIlY AND C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
Psychic Studies (Leipzig), for February, presents the
German reader with a full account of the latest events in
English Spiritualism. It opens with a translation of the
Memorial of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists to Mr. Cross, the Home Secretary, on behalf of Dr.
Slade, followed by part of the discussion on Professor
Barrett’s paper before the British Association at Glasgow,
continued from a former number, and the letters published
in the Times on the Slade controversy from Messrs. Lane
Fox, Carter Blake, Massey and Wallace. A communication
from Mr. G. W. F. Wiese, of Wiesbaden, contains the
history of his conversion to Spiritualism, chiefly by expe¬
riences derived through Mr. Williams’s mediumship during
a visit to London in the year 1875. In the second part of
the journal, which is devoted to papers “ Theoretic and
Critical,” is an article from the Gartenlaube^ entitled Spirit¬
ualism before the Judgment Seat of Science^ the scientific
judge being apparently the writer of the article, and
“ Spiritualism ” one seance at a private house in London.
An extract from the life of Henrich Zschokke, with some
curious examples of what he called his “ inner sight,”
which would be now recognised as clairvoyance, is of great
interest. Although Zschokke always doubted his own
power, it appears never to have been at fault; it consisted
in reading a person’s past life with all its minutest incidents,
by simply looking into his face until, in Zschokke’s own
words, the face of the stranger (or sitter) was no longer
visible to me, nor his voice discernible, and I saw clearly,
|| yet as in a dream, scenes from his former life pass by in
(; succession, and always within the space of a few moments.”
! | The article from the Spiritualist^ relating to Dr. Forbes
! | Winslow’s pamphlet on Spiritualism and Insanity, and Mrs.
j j Lowe’s reply to the same, are given in full, as well as the
| extract from the Scotsman of Professor Oalderwood’s lecture
at Edinburgh on Science and Spiritualism.
The third division of Psychic Studies consists of short
j paragraphs with the latest news on the Slade appeal case,
! H. J. Davis’s testimonial, and other matters. If our Ger-
I man brethren are not infected with a desire for knowledge
I by these stirring accounts, it is not the fault of the editor of
| Psychic Studies. The only piece of original news, which we
i are very glad indeed to learn, is, that a circle has been formed
in Vienna by persons of good faith and good social standing,
for the purpose of thoroughly investigating the facts of
Spiritualism; they request German mediums to assist them
by their services.
The first six pages of the Revue Spirits (Paris) for March
are occupied with a paper on religious questions, entitled
God and Creation. In an extract from the Paris Figaro,
| it is related how the actor, Victorien Sardou, “ being a
|| fervent adept of the Spiritualist doctrine,” made a profound
i impression on the writer of the article by detailing his ex-
I periences with regard to a spirit whom he called Thomas,
j This spirit announced himself through the table, giving his
i name as that of the mayor of a certain town, and stating
j that he had been proud towards his poorer relatives, whom
| he now wished to assist. He indicated the spot where he
i had concealed money, and by the information derived gra-
I dually at several sittings, the circle succeeded in finding a
poor relation of “ Thomas ” in great distress, to whom the
I money was handed over. The article is written in a light
| and pleasing manner.
The Reme gives also an account of the work of Mrs.
I Josephine Butler, who has lately held a meeting in Paris.
The Messager de Liege keeps up a valiant fight with the
j Church and with the press. The two fortnightly numbers
1 for February contain respectively papers on The Virgin
Mary according to the Gospels, showing that believers in the
Bible cannot consistently adopt the views of the Romish
Church on this subject; What is Christ ? by V. Tournier,
and Catholicism before Christ, an extract from a work by the
Comte de Torres-Salanot. Spiritualism and the Press is a
long article commenting on a letter which has appeared in
the Semaine Religieuse, the clerical organ of Tournay, and
which professes to demolish Spiritualism by arguments
derived from a certain treatise on the Holy Ghost. In this
learned work the phenomena of Spiritualism are admitted,
but are shown conclusively to be—not jugglery, for Robert
Houdin could not make tables hear questions, and write
answers to them, beat time to music, or rise in the air at the
touch of a child—no, not jugglery, but the work of demons,
and to converse with demons is a return to a monstrous and
dangerous superstition. To show how industriously the
Romish Church has tried to put down Spiritualism, the
writer in the Messager cites six different documents lying
| before him, issued by French or Spanish Bishops forbidding
I its practice. In reply he quotes from Lacordaire in its favour
| and from the Abbe Lecanu, who declared that whoever
| carried out the teachings in Allan Kardec’s Spirit's Book
\ 11 might become a saint upon the earth.
I (i The Spiritualists of Liege have lately organised fortnightly
I! conferences or discussions, the meetings to be held on Sunday
| evenings.
I A new periodical, devoted to the subjects of Mesmerism
| and Spiritualism, has been started at Liege; it is called Le
| Cherckeur (The Seeker).
The Countess von Vay has sent some interesting informa-
I tion on haunting spirits, which we must reserve for a future
! number.
The Criterio Espiritista for January, 1877, commences
| with a retrospect of all the occurrences which have taken
I place in Spiritualism during the past year, and a general
I apergu of the present state of Spiritualist literature all over the
I world. From this we learn, in addition to the information
| which has been long familiar, that there exists at Saltillo
| a paper entitled La Luz Espirita ; at Alvarado one named
1 El Terrera Revolucion; at San Juan Bantesta, Tabasco de
112 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 9, 1877.
Mexico, one named El Eco de la Verdad. In Peru there is ]
the Espiritismo of Lima ; in Chili there is the Espiritista of ]
Santiago; the Revista Espirita is undoubtedly published at
Monte Video, not at Rio Janeiro, as stated in the previous j
article. None of the above periodicals have reached our I
office, or the library of the British National Association of j
Spiritualists; and we should be glad to receive them, in
order to publish some analysis of their contents. Spiritual
clubs are being formed in several leading Spanish towns, j
and it is to be hoped that they will produce real scientific
work, and not be led to embrace a mere politico-religious j
role. A long biography of Jose Palet, who “ abandoned his j
planetary life ” on the 16th December last, is inserted. The j!
deceased seems to have been a zealous and honest man, who ] J
was once Spanish vice-consul at Cardiff, but who died in j1
Portugal. Mr. Clavairoz (of Trieste) gives a message from I!
a spirit, terming himself Mahomet, who predicted, in 1859, jj
certain events which up to the present time have in part !<
been fulfilled. The general news contained in this excellent !
periodical is, as usual, far superior to that in most Spiritual j
papers in Europe and America. In fact, we see that the. i
time will soon come when the inquirer will turn to the jj
Spanish Criterio as the leading paper which gives satisfactory j j
news of the science. As a mere work of good composition <
and sub-editing, it is impossible to speak too highly of this j {
excellent monthly magazine. j
The Illustracion Espirita of Mexico, for January, 1877, i<
commences with an historical study of dogma, by Senor Juan j j
Cordero, and an article attacking the Christian system of 1
prayer, by Senor Joaquin Calero, who is himself a medium, j
We are unable to recognise the communications from I
Chateaubriand and Erasmus as being like the words which they j j
might have uttered in life. Some very good translations i<
from Jacolliot’s work on “ Indian Fakirs ” and a philoso- jj
phical treatise on “ Fluids,” by Senor Vigneau, with some j<
extracts from the Banner of Light, fill up an excellent j i
number, which places us thoroughly au courant with what is i j
now being done in Mexico. j <
The December number of the Revista Espirista of Monte j j
Video states that it will be presented gratuitously to all the j j
members of the Spiritist Society at Monte Video, and in j
what can only be deemed an error of the press, a paragraph j
on “ false mediums,” extracted from the Criterio Espiritista, j
gives the names of Dr. Slade and the brothers Davenport in j
most unenviable company. Such an error can only havQ j
arisen from a misapprehension of the unanimous loyalty j
with which English Spiritualists have defended Dr. Slade j
against any of the charges which have been made against j \
him, and perhaps also has arisen from a confusion between j
his case and that of others of whom the innocence or guilt j
may be decided on evidence which has nothing to do with j
Spiritualists. j
Four numbers of the Leg de Amor of Merida de Yucatan j
are devoted chiefly to religious polemic in the interest of the j
reihcarnationist school. We commend the article on eternal j
torments (Zas Penas Eternas) by Senor R. G. Cantoz as a j
convenient epitome of the arguments used by the particular j j
school of the author. It possesses some scholarship, much j
good writing, and a very neat way of stating the various
clauses of the author’s argument. j
The Latinist periodicals of this month are all interesting, j j
and we only wish we had a few more of them, in order to j(
contrast with the bulky and verbose compilations of the j)
Northern races. There is a peculiar elegance in saying the |
right thing in scientific language, and in its right place, jt
which many Latin, French, and Spanish writers possess, j)j
and which England, America, and Germany, if they cannot Kj
rival, might at least attempt to imitate. Certainly, the Irj
Spiritual periodicals written in Spanish in a literary sense j;i
take the lead over all others, even though they have the jsj
disadvantage of representing only one school, which un- m
reservedly adheres to the traditions of Allan Kardec. ||j
Paid Mediums.—When the servant of Saul proposed to him to ask j<j
guidance from the prophet Samuel, Saul objected, saying—“If we go,
what shall we bring the man ? There is not a present to bring to the man i) i
of God.” The servant answered Saul—“Behold, I have here af hand Kj
the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give to the man of 111
God to tell us our way,”—1 Samuel ix. 8. , • jjj
SPIRITUAL IMPRESSIONS IN ROME.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
The rapidity of travel in these days of steam carriages
brings Rome within five days of London. Tourists are so
numerous, guide books and books of travel so plentiful, that
to attempt a description of places and things would be to
make oneself a bore. There is nothing new, even in Rome,
or we might say anywhere on our thoroughly explored planet,
by this time squeezed dry as a sponge of novelty or strange¬
ness. Novelty now-a-days must be found in the mind of
the beholder, for it has been chased off the face of the earth
by the rapid footsteps of those who do their travelling by
contract, and rush through the grand, venerable, and even
glorious scenes of our world without time for reflection or
contemplation. They are probably as much benefited by
what they see as if they had staid at home, and peeped at
pictures of it all through a large hole in a box. The sights
of Rome are almost as well conned as a child’s alphabet,
and the names of the most prominent run as glibly over the
tongue, whilst their characteristics are as well known from
photographs as other places that are considered worthy the
notice of the omnipresent tourist. And yet Rome is ever
full of novelty, ever fresh in beauty, according to the eyes
which behold it. Its greatest charm lies in its venerable
antiquity, whether in the crumbling marbles left by the
great people who founded it, or in the well-preserved
gorgeous fanes, or lordly palaces of a succeeding race, whose
history is quite as interesting.
In the very atmosphere of Rome, the past seems inextric¬
ably mingled with the present. A sense of its antiquity
seems to come to you in the air you breathe. The very
stones, the dust, cry out to you of a people vanished like
shadows indeed, but shadows that insist upon being seen,
gazed at, commented upon; shadows that cause the blood
to freeze in your veins from horror, or that send it bounding
along, hot with sympathetic ardour; shadows that make your
eyes run over with tears, or beam with glowing enthusiasm;
shadows that bend the soul down in prayer for beauty of
purity, piety, and devotion as great as they displayed in
their lives long ago; shadows of the great peoples swept
away by the changes of time, leaving indestructible relics
behind them, and great names upon the pages of history,
still haunting, ghost-like, the old city, the tomb of their
greatness; still filling the air with their fleeting forms and
whispering voices—passing in and out amongst the living, in
the bright sunshine, as they, who are blindly taking no note.
The mind insensibly settles down into reverie and contem¬
plation in such an atmosphere, and the wonderful voices of
the past busily tell their tales, or chaunt requiems which
hold one in entranced fascination. Herein, in this ever-
changing, ever-interesting picture of the past lies the great
charm, the novelty of Rome—perhaps as no other city on
earth can present it. A vast panorama, ever crossed by
living, moving forms, crowding senate-chambers, palaces,
temples, streets, gardens, and fields, in the various costumes
of the past, with placid, devout, saint-like faces; with the
smiles of wanton beauty, or eyes inflamed with passion, rage,
hatred, revenge. All these scenes rise before the eye of the
imagination, and the mind lives in them, passing easily
from the times of the ancient Romans to the periods of Italian
greatness—from the times of the martyrdom of Christians, to
the secure grandeur of later eras, when the Popes wielded a
power unequalled, and left the soil enamelled with richest
relics of their splendour in churches, palaces, fountains, and
statues.
But to the clairvoyant eye are presented forms and scenes
more perfect and life-like than the imagination can con¬
jure up. Standing midst the ruins of the Coliseum or Forum,
again they erect themselves in classical perfection and beauty,
and become thronged with the people of the past—eager
crowds rising tier upon tier gazing down into the vast arena
of the Coliseum upon the sports, or combats being there
enacted; Roman matrons, and lovely maidens, their robes
glittering with jewels—Emperors and Princes in high state
—beautitul youths and handsome men. Gracefully, but
with a spirit loveliness added to the beauty of old, they
gather in brilliant ranks beneath a suu that beamed as
brightly then as now, or pace in majestic groups beneath
March 9, 1877.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
113
the archways. With arrested breath and rapt gaze, you
stand and wonder, with tears of awe, at the glorious beauty
of the old past. But another scene suddenly replaces this, j
thickening the tears in your eyes, and wringing your heart |
with anguish. The roar of wild beasts is heard, and there,
standing bound, meekly waiting, or here sinking upon the j
earth in the agonies of a cruel death, beneath the rending
teeth and claws of infuriated animals, their blood soaking j
into the soil, are the forms of Christian martyrs.
With a sob and a moan you turn and beg not to see. But
wait! Angels are here, bending above the bleeding bodies,
and you see the beatified spirits raised into Heaven. A j
priest at your side, prayer-book in hand, has been reverently j
praying, and undeterred by the presence of strangers, he j
kneels, stoops, and respectfully kisses the soil which long j
ago drank up that blood. He did not see what you saw,
but his faith is sure of it, and your heart goes out to him in !
loving sympathy, and thanks—thanks for his devotion, which I
has gone forth upon the air, making it bright and fragrant |
to your spiritual senses, and bringing to his side that beau- j1
tiful attendant spirit, who looks at you with eyes lustrous in j j
smiling happiness, perhaps one of the martyrs to whom he j J
prays. 'tJ l b
In the Forum, from the midst of the ruins, spiritual jj
columns and arches stand perfect to your sight, supporting j (
roofs rich in frescoed ornament, and winding about amongst j <
statues and fountains, wander the forms of men whose deeds j {
stand more imperishable than marble on the pages of history, j (
In temples, palaces, along the streets, whilst you thread the j
fashionably-filled walks of the Pincian gardens, figures j
majestic, clad in ancient attire, some with indescribable j
spirit beauty, others with dingier garments and saddened !?
faces, showing unresting souls, follow you, touch you on the n
shoulder, meet you, gaze with their intensely burning eyes j
into yours, sometimes speaking to you; and with your j |
wonderful privilege of standing between the two worlds, with jj
eyes open to both, your soul shivers with awe, and you are I
overwhelmed with such a sense of the grandeur of human j
life; it seems to you so god-like when thus gathered in one j j
vast picture before you of the past and the present, of the j j
material and the spiritual conjoined, that you ask if any- jj
thing can be greater ? It is a picture of the greatness of j
God, and individual units are so small—you, yourself so jj
small, like a mere gnat shivering upon a leaf in the evening j
wind. Your mind receives an impression of the immensity U
of the world and its manifold complexity; of the wondrous jj
lives of men, their origin, development, destiny; of the j
unsolved problem of the human soul; of the great, distant, j j
God-creator and centre of all; all seems flashed before you ! j
by these few permitted peeps into the spirit-world, and you j
stand awe-struck and overwhelmed with a sense of your own j j
utter insignificance. A place for contemplation and reflec- j j
tion. Yes, such as may never visit your life again ; wherein j j
you seem to gather up into a knot loose ends that have been j j
flying abroad for ages, and questions long unanswered re- j j
ceive an answer in the panorama moving every day, with a j j
multiplicity of changes before your spiritual and bodily jj
vision, in which the great divine plan for the human race j j
unfolds itself—strengthening, illustrating, and confirming jj
lessons long ago breathed into your mind by the instructive j j
spirits who guide and teach you. j j
Absorbed and fascinated by these scenes flashed before jj
my eyes from the spirit-world, my mind has been filled jj
with inquiries as to the lives of the ancient Romans, and jj
their present condition in the world above. I am answered I j
that I was permitted to see on purpose to awaken an in- jj
terest in my mind, the intention being to give me infor- jj
mation upon many points interesting to myself and others, jj
Accordingly day by day my mind is filled with reflections, j j
and I am informed by the spirit-voice, besides controlled jj
to write much, which seems following out a plan arranged I j
by my friends and companions not in the flesh. I am very jj
hopeful it may prove worthy of publication, and that health j j
and strength will be given me .to complete it according to j j
their wishes. j j
Rome, Feb. 27th, 1877. ’ ' j j
Mr. D. D. Home, the medium, is about to bring out a book entitled | j
Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism, ' ; M)
SPIRITUALISM AND THE LAW.
One point which is liable to crop up on every occasion on
which mediums are persecuted by the law, is that of the
refusal of the bench to hear experts, in order to decide
whether the alleged phenomena under consideration are
genuine, or the result of imposture. This is a point which
no counsel who does his duty to Spiritualists can permit to
be overlooked. Directly the bench decides that the facts
must be imposture, and that experts shall not be heard, as
in other cases, at that moment it is the duty of the counsel
to most strongly protest and to denounce the unconstitutional
and illegal conduct of the judge or magistrate. There is no
Act of Parliament relegating legal authorities to the juris¬
diction of any particular section of scientific men, neither
are they obliged to submit to the dictation of such men of
science as refuse to inquire into certain of the phenomena of
nature, phenomena which are empirically tabooed on the
same principle that certain savages, fearless to the back-
. bone, nevertheless think that some evil will fall upon them
if they chance to see their mothers-in-law; consequently if
one of them passes that fearful woman he trembles with
terror, and holds his gigantic shield before his eyes, to cut
off from vision the woman herself, who in terror sits with
her head plunged in a neighbouring sand-bank.*
With these actions of English men of science and de¬
graded savages, British judges have nothing to do; their
business is to administer justice, and directly they officially
announce from the bench that the course pursued in other
cases shall not be pursued in Spiritualistic cases, that is the
moment for the English barrister who is true to the highest
instincts of his profession and to the interests of the cause
he represents, to rise and publicly denounce the action of
the judge, that the impeachment may stand upon record as
a matter of history for all time.
THE ORIGIN OP BIRDS.
On Friday night, at the Royal Institution, Professor Huxley delivered
a lecture to an overflowing audience on “ The Origin of Birds.” Dr.
Hooker, President of the Royal Society, occupied the chair, and among
the listeners were Mr. Alfred Tennyson, the Duke of Argyll, Mr.
William Spottiswoode, Lord and Lady Arthur Russell, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, Mr. and Mrs. C.W. Siemens, Lady Wade, Professor Tyndall,
Mr. Lecky, and Mr. Warren De La Rue.
Professor Huxley remarked that the geologist was but a new kind of
antiquary; the latter confined his examinations to natural and artificial
remains of recent date, the former brought exactly the same methods of
research to bear upon remains of an antiquity incalculable to man.
During these long periods of time the climatic and other powers at work
upon the face of the earth appeared to be the same as those in force now,
and in the slow course of ages gradual changes took place in the charac¬
teristics of animals and plants. For instance, in the London gravel the
remains of animals difier from those of the present time in species, and
in the London clay beneath, crocodiles and other creatures somewhat
resembling those which at present live in the West Indies, are found;
whilst lower still, in the chalk, remains are embedded which have no
parallel in the living things of the present day. Nevertheless, through¬
out all this and longer ranges, birds were birds, and they differed from
other animals in possessing feathers, in a peculiar formation of the
forearm or wing, in the shape of the pelvis bone, and in their not
possessing teeth. He then narrated how Professor Marsh had, in the
face of trials and dangers, geologically explored some of the wild country
between the Rocky Mountains and the Mississippi, which had once been
the bed of a shallow ocean, into which animal remains from the land
had been washed, and plenteously and perfectly preserved in the softest
of mud. Here Professor Marsh had found several perfect skeletons of
the Hesperonis Regalis, a bird six feet long, in several points curiously
resembling the grebe; but it had long jaws full of teeth. He in the
same deposits also discovered another toothed bird no bigger than a
pigeon. A still older bird was in the British Museum, with a long and
peculiar tail, fingers like the paw of a reptile, ending in strong claws.
These birds “ overlapped ” reptiles in their characteristics. In a previous
lecture he had pointed out how certain geological reptiles walked on
their hind legs, and approximated anatomically to birds. The speaker
did not theorise at all upon the facts he presented.—Daily Telegraph.
Mr. W. J. Colville, a private trance medium, will deliver an
address, on any subject chosen by the audience, at the rooms of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, Loudon,
to-morrow (Saturday) afternoon, at three o’clock. All friends are
invited to be present.
* Sir John Lubbock says that those savage tribes who have rules against holding any
communication with their mothers-in-law are, in America, the Red Indians generally, the
Omahaws Crees. DacotaCs, Caribs, and Arawaks. A similar custom prevails among the
Mongols and Kalmucks of Central Asia, the Ostiaks of Siberia; in China, Borneo, and the
Fiji islands. la Australia a man must not pronounce the name of his father-in-law, his
mother-in-law, or his son-in-law. The negroes of Central Africa and the bushmen in the
south are bound by the same laws,
114
THE' SPIRITUALIST.
March 9, 1877.
SPIRITUALISTS AND THE OLDHAM ELECTION.
The letter from Mr. Hartley, in another column, sets forth
how the Oldham Spiritualists have called the attention of
the 'candidates for a seat in Parliament on behalf of that
borough, to the recent prosecutions of mediums, and the un¬
satisfactory state of the law and its administration. At such
times the candidates are particularly malleable, especially
When their replies have an influence on the direction of
several hundreds of votes.
Mr. Kershaw, of Oldham, writes that the deputation from
the Oldham Society of Spiritualists was courteously received
by both the candidates. Mr. Hibbert, the Liberal candidate,
said that he had come to the conclusion, before the deputa¬
tion waited upon him, that the various prosecutors had been
straining the law rather too much, and that he would vote
for the abolition of some of the more obsolete Acts should the
question come before the House of Commons. Mr. Lees, the
Conservative candidate, “ was glad of the information given
him by the deputation,” and the matter “would be con¬
sidered by him.”
These gentle reminders, which will increase in number
and strength in future years, will help to let the Legislature
know that the law cannot altogether be over-ridden with im¬
punity, and mesmeric sensitives punished whether innocent
or guilty, because of the ignorance of those who administer j
justice.
THE BROWN LADY OF RAINHAM.
BY LUCIA C. STONE.
The haunting at Rainham, Norfolk, the seat of the
Townsend family, has been mentioned in one or two Spiritual
publications, but in a passing manner, without any details.
I think your readers may be interested by an account of it
which I received from an eye-witness. All the names are
given. The time was about 1885-40. I am unable to fix
the date more exactly.
A large party had assembled at Rainham for Christmas.
Lord and Lady Charles Townsend were the host and hostess.
Amongst the guests were Colonel and Mrs. Loftus and Miss
Page, a cousin of hers,, Colonel Loftus was a brother of Lady
Charles, and cousin to Lord Charles, consequently a Townsend
on his mother’s side. There was a family tradition that at
special times the apparition of a lady dressed in brown
brocade had been seen, but nothing had occurred for a long
time, and the stories were well-nigh forgotten.
One night Colonel Loftus and a gentleman named Haw¬
kins sat up rather late over a game of chess; they went up¬
stairs, and were bidding each other “ good night,” when
Mr. Hawkins exclaimed, “ Loftus, who is that standing at
your sister’s door ? How strangely she is dressed.” Colonel
Loftus, who was near-sighted, put up his glass and followed
the figure, which went on for some little distance, when he
lost sight of it. A second night she appeared to him, and
this time, to prevent her escape, he went up a staircase
which would bring him face to face with her. There, in a
full light, she stood, a stately lady in her rich brocade, a
sort of coif on her head, the features clearly defined, but
where there should have been eyes, dark hollows.
These were the two appearances he described to me, and
he sketched her afterwards. I saw the sketch just after his
return from Rainham. The lady was seen by several others,
and I have heard the stories, but not from their own lips,
so I forbear to give them, but perhaps I should mention that
the cousin of Mrs. Loftus, Miss Page, whom I knew very
intimately, asked Lord Charles if he too believed in the
apparition? He replied: “I cannot but believe, for she
ushered me into my room last night.”
The servants were frightened and gave warning, and Lord
Charles, thinking after all that it might be a trick, made
alterations in the house in the way of bolts and locks, and
had down from London some of the police, whom he put
in his own livery, but they discovered nothing during their
stay.
After some time the hauntings ceased.
Shute Haye, Walditch, Bridport.
Birth.—-March 2nd, at 47, Rue Billault, Paris, the wife of Mr, A. H.
Firman, medium, of a eon.
A NEW STANDARD WORK ON SPIRITUALISM.
| The announcement of forthcoming works on Spiritualism by the
[j writer so well known in the movement as “M. A. Oxon,” will be
| received with general satisfaction. No one can be better qualified, both
[ | by personal experiences and literary ability, than the gentleman who has
11 already contributed so much that is valuable to our journalistic litera-
11 ture, and who is also the medium through whose hand the Spirit Teach-
11 ingS) which have excited so much interest among the readers of this
1 paper, have been given. The author designs the successive issue of
three volumes, of which the first, at present proposed to be entitled
Essays and Reviews, is apparently ready for publication. But he de¬
clines pecuniary risk, and the book will only see the light “ if sufficient
| names are enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses.” The business arrangements are confided to a
| committee, and the names of intending subscribers are to be sent to
I F. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, London, W. It is
estimated that about 500 subscriptions of 10s. will be required. There
can be little doubt that the book will be in considerable request both
in this country and in America, and probably the demand will not be
confined to Spiritualists. Recent events have made it abundantly
evident that the public are equally ignorant of the character of our
views, and of the methods of our investigation, and this ignorance
needs to be counteracted by information which may reach many who are
at present deterred from inquiry by their mistaken preconceptions. The
works which will follow the one offered to the public are Researches in
the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism and Spirit Teachings.
A work well known by the title of Essays and Reviews having already
been published, the title of the now proposed work will have to be altered
to avoid infringement of copyright.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
Ox Tuesday I took to one of Mr. Williams’s seances, at 61,
j Lamb’s Conduit-street, London, a friend and a private medium
who had not been before to see his manifestations. Before going
into the stance room I left my hat and top-coat in the room
adjoining, and, as I had a severe cold, I also left accidentally a bottle
containing “ effervescing sore throat drops,” on the table.
We at four o’clock went into the stance room, and Mr. Williams sat
between myself and the private medium. The light was put out after
placing a few things on the table in the centre of the room, viz., a
musical box, two iron rings, Oxford chimes, and other things.
After the lapse of a few minutes Williams began to shudder,
whilst we held each of his hands, then suddenly the spirit Peter
I spoke in a loud voice, through a roll of cardboard, hitting my head,
II saying he was glad to see me, and asking how I was; I rephed, “ Rather
bad,” and that as I had left my lozenges in next room I wished he would
fetch them; instantly the tube was dropped on the table, and the voice
said, “ I’ll fetch them.” Williams was not in a trance at all. Directly,
i in one minute, the bottle was brought to me and put to my mouth; I
I let go the medium’s hand to receive it, and helped myself to some
| lozenges; then I joined hands again. Soon Peter took the Oxford
I chimes up to the ceiling, and played them beautifully in any part of the
room we desired; he also talked loudly to us, whilst Williams was
laughing at many things he said as we four sat at the table. I then
asked Peter to place one of the iron rings on my arm whilst I held the
medium; the two rings then began moving on the surface of the table.
I distinctly heard them doing so. Suddenly I felt one come on my arm.
Then I asked that the other ring should be put on the arm of the young
lady who was holding fast his right hand.; this was instantly done. I
next asked Williams to go into Hie cabinet, unfettered, for a materiali¬
sation, which he did, and was soon entranced. Then Peter began
talking to us in a loud voice, saying John King was coming, and he
did come, showing his face, with his light in his hand. He floated up
to the ceiling whilst talking with Peter, and Williams was kicking and
moaning inside the cabinet, all at the same instant of time. Then John
King came down and gave the young lady his light to look at, and said
that the power was expended, so bade us “ good bye.” Thus ended the
seance.
People who deny the above facts without going to see them in a proper
spirit of inquiry are really beneath notice; for as I have before written
| this is a “new power,’’ without trickery, with honest mediums. No
j accomplices whatever were present in the above case,
j Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
i A miscellaneous entertainment, preceded by a tea party, will be
given on Good Friday, in connection with the Oldham Society of
| Spiritualists, and on Easter Sunday the usual anniversary meeting of
the society will be held.
A public lecture will be delivered to the Kensington Young Men’s
Society, on Wednesday, in the School-rooms, Alien-street, Kensington,
| by Mr. Frank Wright. Subject—“ Spiritualism, tested by Reason and
Science.” The Rev. Alexander Raleigh, D.D., will preside. The pro¬
ceedings will commence at eight o’clock, admission free. —R. W. Hooke
and Gustavus Watson, Hon. Secs.
|| The Use of Physical Manifestations.—Mr. Gerald Massey, in his
II little book Concerning Spiritualism, says “ With many persons these
11 physical manifestations are looked upon as an end in themselves, to be
j j followed for their own sake, instead of a means to an end—an incentive
| to growth in spiritual life. Numbers of curiosity-mongers run about,
1 i with their foolish eyebrows lifted in restless search after repeated appeals
| to their barren wonder, victims to an idle curiosity that uses the eye-
| glass to scrutinise, instead of the eye to comprehend. This is the
[ i materialism of Spiritualism—gross and godless as any other kind ol
’ materialism.”
March 9, 1877. SPlllITITAtlSl?. 113
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
Psychological Society, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
Lord Borthwick was elected a member of the society, and Professor
Plumptre read the second part of his paper upon “ The Psychology of
the Human Voice.”
PROPHETIC DREAMS.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., in the course of some remarks
on a subject which had occupied the previous attention of the society,
said: At the close of the interesting discussion at our last meeting on the
paper of the president, I asked him how he correlated his theories with
the fact of the existence of prophetic dreams. His reply had the merit of
simplicity. He denied their existence altogether. Now, that reply struck
me with amazement; for, first of all, I remembered hearing from him
some very curious and interesting statements as to the transcorporeal
action of spirit, or supersensuous perception. If this were so during
bodily activity, it seemed to me wonderful that the same power should
be denied to the spirit when the conditions for its action were perfected
by the repose of the body. On d priori principles that seemed to me
illogical. Moreover, I had facts in my own experience, and had read
many in the experience of others, which seemed to me to negative the
president’s dictum, absolutely and altogether. Almost any book deal¬
ing, however remotely, with the subject, records them; almost anybody
has had, at some time, experience of them. The fact is, that sleep and
its phenomena are very complex. It was once mooted in a discussion
of this society whether it was possible to dream of using senses which
the dreamer in his Waking state did not possess and never had. Harriett
Martineau tells of an old lady, blind from her birth, who yet saw in her
sleep, and described accurately in her waking state the clothing of indi¬
viduals. This would show that the spiritual perceptions are awake
during bodily sleep, and that dreams are not merely revived cerebral
impressions. Moreover, the annihilation of time and space in dream is
analogous to what we know of the action of spirit, and leads to the
belief that the spirit is active then. The truth probably is that many
persons during sleep become conscious of spiritual influences which they
do not perceive during their waking state; and what we call dreams are
the more or less imperfect recollection of what the spirit sees and does
during bodily repose. The incongruities and absurdities of dreams are
the blurs caused by the imperfect transfer of the picture to the physical
brain. It was perfect. It is marred in copying. Many persons during
sleep become clairvoyant; many are conscious of what transpires at a
distance. Many, as I believe, receive spiritual impressions during the
time of training of their spirits, which they more or less imperfectly
recollect on waking. Macnish, in his Philosophy of Sleep, quotes a
curious dream of his own, which bears on the question of clairvoyant or
prophetic dreams. Being in Caithness, he dreamed that a near relation
residing three hundred miles off had suddenly died. He awoke in a
“ state of inconceivable terror.” He wrote to inquire, and, till he heard,
was in a state of “ most unpleasant suspense.” Three days elapsed
before an answer came, and then it was to the effect that the
person in question had had a fatal attack of palsy the very day
on the morning of which he dreamed his dream. He was
in a perfect state of health before the stroke. It came on him like a
thunderbolt. The death of Mr. Perceval, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, was foretold by a prophetic dream, thrice repeated to Mr.
Williams, of Scorrier House, near Redruth, in Cornwall, on the night
of May 11th, 1812. A friend to whom the dream was told on the
following morning recognised Mr. Perceval by the description, and
shortly after news came that the Chancellor had been shot in the lobby
of the House by one Bellingham. Six weeks after Mr. Williams went
to town, visited the House of Commons, pointed out the exact spot of
the murder, and gave particulars, minute and exact, of everything con¬
nected with it. Sir Humphry Davy dreamed that he was ill in Italy, in
a particular room, the furniture of which he noted, nursed by a young
girl whose face he remembered. Some years after he was travelling in
Italy, was taken ill, laid up in the very room, and nursed by the very
girl whom he saw in his dream. Moore, in his work on Body and Mind,
relates that an intimate friend of his own, a diplomatist, had engaged
a passage to South America by a steamer which was to leave May 9 th,
1856. A few days after the passage was taken a lady, well known to
both, dreamed of the loss of the vessel. The dream was very vivid, and
was twice repeated. Circumstances prevented M. de S. from going by
that particular vessel, which was lost in accord with the dream. This
was told to Moore some weeks before it was verified. Here is a case of
a dream occurring to two persons. A lady, residing with her son in one
of the Eastern States of America, dreamed that her daughter, then re¬
sident in New York, was taken suddenly ill. Her son had the same
dream on the same night. They were greatly impressed, and compared
their respective dreams, which tallied exactly. In due course
came a telegram, and the mother went to New York, to find
her daughter ill precisely as she had dreamed. Not to
multiply cases, which I might do ad lib., these are sufficient to estab¬
lish my proposition that dreams do show action of spirit, and are at
times employed for purposes of warning. All that I have quoted come
from authentic sources, and I might detain you for hours with ex¬
periences similar in kind. Probably the experience of most of us con¬
tains some such fact. It is so with me, at any rate, and I know many
persons who corroborate that statement. Gerald Massey, in a lecture
reported May 17, 1872, says, “ On waking up at seven o’clock my wife
informed me that my mother was dead. Asked how she knew. She
said she had seen in a dream the black-edged envelope put under the
bedroom door. At eight o’clock the veritable letter came.’’ A personal
friend of my own, to whom I mentioned this subject, says that she lately
dreamed of a letter written to her husband from a relative with whom
he had for a long time had no communication. She saw it most clearly,
and noticed that it ended on a particular spot of the third page. - The
letter came; she looked over her husband’s shoulder, and saw the very
counterpart of the letter of her dream. The first thing that drew my
attention to this matter was an occurrence that came before me while l
| was at Oxford. I had a very intimate friend who was on terms of
| closest intercourse with me. One day he came into my rooms with an
| open letter, which he had evidently received wi^h much concern. He
| told me that his mother had written in great distress, having, as he
said, “ again had one of her horrid dreams.” He told me that he had
originally had three brothers and a sister, of whom the sister alone sur¬
vived. The others were dead, and before the death of each his mother
had had a particular dream, foreshadowing the event, and even the date.
I regret that I cannot now say positively whether she had actually
dreamed of the day of death, but that she had warning I am sure. In
all cases the warning had been fulfilled. This letter led him to believe
that his mother had now dreamed of the date of his sister's death.
Hence his disquietude. His own death he had a premonition of him¬
self. The date is past; but he went to Australia, and has passed out
of my ken. Is it strange that"I believe in prophetic dreams?
A SEANCE WITH MR. LAWRENCE.
To the Editor of the 11 Spiritualist.”
I Sir,—I enclose an account of a second seance held at the residence of
| i Mrs. Ayers, 45, Jubilee-street, Stepney, E. I went there to inquire for
II Mr. Lawrence’s address, and was rather surprised to meet him. We
11 then held a stance. I will simply relate what occurred. The seance
j | was held in full light; the medium requested us to secure him. I sewed
| his two sleeves together (arms in them), then tied his elbows together
j with tape, then doubly tied the parallel lines of tape, securing all to the
i top rung of the chair. I next tied both his legs to the chair, and tied a
! piece of tape round his neck, securing it to the handle of the cupboard,
j! which was closed. A board was then placed on his knees, and a screen
(| thrown across his face; half his body was then visible. Books were
1 placed on the board. Presently a small black hand came out; then a
i large brown hand turned over the leaves of the book. Once when the
i hands were out turning over the leaves, the screen fell down suddenly,
11 showing the medium perfectly secured and passive. The medium
j then in the trance requested that he might be more perfectly
(| secured, as he wished to give every satisfaction. Mr. Elson accordingly
I got some twine, and tied his fingers to the back of the chair, one by one,
| j interlacing them in every possible manner. It was utterly impossible
(j for him to get his fingers out. The screen being once more thrown over
] his face, the books were placed on his knees, and a ring, taken from
) i Mrs. Vandyke’s finger, was placed on the books. In less than a minute
(I the books were moved; the medium called out to be examined, and Mrs.
(| Vandyke’s ring was found on his little finger. All this was in full light,
j in a small room, seven feet by four, no cabinet or platform, no money
(I payment, and an apparently friendly meeting. We had to get a knife to
\\ cut the medium free. I never knew any person to be secured so tightly
?! as he was; it would have taken us an hour to untie the knots. I intend
|i to test him alone, in my own house, with none but my own family
| i present, as he puzzles me at present. I may then solve the mystery,
i Until I do so, please give this a place, as it may lead others to deal with
II the subject.
i The witnesses to above-mentioned seance are T. Elson, Commercial-
h road, E.; G. Pollen, 11, Samuel-street, Commercial-road, E.; S. Van-
(j dyke, 2, Cecil-street, Mile End; J. Buttley, Jamaica-street, Stepney, E.;
j Alice Battle, Jamaica-street, Stepney, E.; S. Battle, Jamaica-street,
11 Stepney, E.; M. A. Ayers, 45, Jubilee-street, Stepney, E.
i James Cain,
) i 142, Burdett-road, Bow, E., March 6th, 1877.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—A want has been felt of a more central
j i place of meeting for the Spiritualists of the north of Liverpool, and
II on Sunday last Mr. John Lament commenced a Sunday service in the
| | afternoon, at three o’clock, at the Hall in Newland-street. He gave
11! an interesting lecture on <c Self-Reliance,” in which he stated that no
| (| man, or body of men, had a right to interfere with another man’s
j I individuality, neither did any such right appertain to spirits. He
III preferred originators, not imitators, for the latter did little good to
111 society. Many had suffered from originality, but the world had been
[ | benefited by their thoughts and deeds. It was announced that Mr.
| j Shepherd would, on the following Sunday, at the same place and time,
| | give a lecture in reply to Mr. Bradlaugh, and what he had advanced
| i against Spiritualism in the National Reformer. At 6.30 p.m., at Meyer-
: I beer Hall, Mr. Pride read an interesting paper on the “ Difficulties of
| | Spiritualism.” The president, Dr. Hitchman, occupied the chair, and
I? it was announced that Mr. John Priest would address the meeting
| | next Sunday, at 6.30 p.m.
i j A Case op Distress.—We have received the following letter:—,f Sir,
| : —May I venture to appeal to my friends and the public on behalf of Mr.
i (I J. Aldridge, an earnest and true Spiritualist. Some three months ago he
|) i failed in business, and since then, owing to the persecution he has met
j | with, through his being a Spiritualist, he has been unable to obtain em-
i (j ployment. He is ready and willing to work, and has appealed to me to
i j | help him obtain money enough to enable him to reach Leeds, his native
i) i place, where employment has been promised him. I have visited his
Hi ‘home,’ and have, indeed, there found a dreadful picture of misery.
!|! With no furniture in the room, with his three children ill with measles,
(I his wife also ill (perhaps through the want of proper necessaries of life),
Hi and all under the care of the parish doctor. This is one of the most
i)i heartrending cases I have heard of, and I strongly appeal to the
111 benevolent and needy to help to save these poor and unfortunate people
I I from starvation. All contributions sent to me will be acknowledged in
| | your journal, and will be instantly remitted to Mr. Aldridge.—Willie
| | Eglinton.—St. James’s House, ‘ Greenleaf-lane, Walthamstow, Mid-
i i dlesex.”
THE SPIKITUAIIST.
March 9, J877.
ild
IPoetrij.
SPRING.
Old Winter’s cave ■will soon green warmly now.
Cold gloom of buried months—gone, passionless :
Wet western winds, storm-tempered, curse, to bless,
Or only swear to aid the tragic, seedling plough.
Quaint music’s shadowy, belfry-prisoner, wave,
From trembling Christmas towers, has died away :
Come on ! beloved, daisy-burden’d day,
And sweetly hide, with herbs, December’s grave ;
As children, frighten’d, kiss the lovely dead,
And lips aglow, touch lips of colder clay,
In later watches of still interview:
So shall young Spring, near sacred Winter’s bed,
Weep ! smile ! forget!—and softly singing, play,
For coffin’d idols have small offerings due.
Heave! breast of earth !—and soon the gilliflower
Will blush with wild-throe, sunset tints of life,
Its silken, bloody leaves declare the strife
Of Flora’s birth-pangs, in the holy hour!
Grow blue ! 0 New Year’s sky !—as men wax blue
Through quick and pained divorce of cold, from heat:
Fair milk-maids sigh for cowslips ’neath their feet,
And whistling shepherds seek the rainbow’s hue,
Fed by slow moisture of forgotten snows,
Yet coaxed with genial planetary light,—
Lone woods, old winter damned, must soon re-dross
As marriageable virgin dons new clothes
For heiress bridal-day,—when love is bright
And beauty hath new honours to confess.
O’er Southern seas, with yellowy softness, creep,
Rare, blessed, lazy winds, from Orange Land:
Charmed, fruitful breezes, from a warmer strand,
Steal musically Northwards in thy sleep !
Thy luscious lull will breed half-burning flowers,
The buttercup unfold its timid bell:
The saucy crows in naked castles dwell,
And Spring’s shy leafage manifest sweet powers.
Ah ! then how soon the garden-song of bees !
Hot glee of throstles, breath of sweet-briar scent,
Fools’ weeping month, and May’s non-frosted snow.
Full paradise of sun-defying trees—
Dead winter’s icy energies all spent,
Pink summer’s languid beauties in full glow.
Peterborough, Jan. 20, 1877. J. T. Marklet.
(KomsponTietue.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be keptby the writers.]
AN INCIDENT.
Sie,—Allow me to place before your readers the following fact, which
I record exactly as it occurred. A fortnight ago I had to put my little
boy to bed, and at his earnest request lay down beside him, “ to keep
the black faces away.” After some time I was rising to come away to
attend to other duties, when he said, “Mother, dear, I love you,” a
token, of course, that he was still awake, so again I lay beside him.
Very shortly I knew from his deep breathing that sleep had overtaken
him, and was on the point of rising, when I observed a large phospho¬
rescent light coming, as it were, from him. I paused silently, assured
this was only a prelude to something in the way of further manifesta¬
tion. It proved so, for, as I waitingly watched, the light developed into
an oblong form as of crimson velvet, in the centre of which was a
delicately moulded form of the Infant Christ. Gradually it seemed to
unform, then to reform, till it as steadily passed off. I offer no comment;
perhaps some eyes more clairvoyant than mine, or some mind more
deeply versed in spiritual pictures, may offer a solution of its meaning.
It is late in the day now for outsiders or ignorant persons, satisfied with
the vaunted learning of school or college, to sneer away all that is
presented to human sight—wonderful because mysterious. One thing
only remains for me to add: that the room was perfectly dark, no light
from the street even cast a glimmer therein. When I noticed the light
through which what I have mentioned was so visible, all was still dark,
save my child’s head, and the heavenly figure on his quiet breast.
Scoff who may, read ■who can,
To unravel prayerfully the wiser plan.
Adelaide Mewburn Slater.
19, Leamington-road Villas, Westboume-park, W., 3rd March, 1877.
STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE DOCTRINES OF ALLAN KARDEC.
Sir,—The spirit at our circle named Glaucus, referring to this previous
statement of his own, “ I have been dead eighteen hundred years, and I
have not been reincarnated yet,” added, “Before man can enter into the
presence of God, the Great Spirit, he must be perfect. It is imperative.
His spirit was made perfect, being a very part of the Great Maker
Himself. God made man in His own image, made man ‘like unto
Himself,’ and in that you are permitted to call Him ‘ Father.’ ”
ii Admitting S’ I said, 11 that man must become perfect before he can go
into the presence of God, the question is—How is this to come about?'1’
“ Christ said, ‘In my Father’s house there are many mansions.’ Let
us look well at this. Look into that which is called space, and what do
you see ? You see great solar systems, you see all the planets moving
regularly on their paths around suns. Look at the planets, besides that
on which you live, some of them much larger than your own; tell me,
Do you think that they are placed there for nothing ? Do you think
that those of your system are placed there simply to light your earth 2
Of course, if you understand the solar system, you know that it is not
for that. Do you think that the great and wise God did not place them
there for a purpose ? I will tell you what they are there for: in one or
other of them you will pass another life. This is the reincarnation that
you will have to pass through. Each star or planet has a work to do;
in one or other of them you will become purer, and fit for the presence
of God. Christ said again—‘As a man sows so he shall reap’; as you
are good or bad, so you will go to that mansion prepared for you.”
Here the message was suspended, with a request that what had been
said should not be mentioned outside “ our little circle ” until the subject
was finished. It was taken up from time to time, and I shall give what
was then written, without further allusion to the interruptions.
At the next meeting Glaucus proceeded to write in continuation:
“ You cannot come back here; that would not be progression, and the
great thing is to progress. If you are to come back here by reincarna¬
tion, why do you die, or appear to die? I can only say from my
experience that you will not return here. When you once leave you
must advance, not go back. When spirits are reincarnated in another
planet they cannot come here to communicate with you. I only come
back to you because I have returned to spirit life, and when I once said
that I had not been reincarnated, I should have said that I have been in
other planets, but not on earth.”
If it is necessary to progress here, why do people die or pass away ?
Why not stop and accomplish their mission, and not come back to go over
again what they have already done ?
“ If you will read my communication, you will see that I said each
planet has its function; that is, if you are prepared for a high planet
you will go there, but if for an inferior one you will go to that one. If
you do not prepare yourself here for a good mansion, you must prepare
yourself in another existence. Man must go upwards and advance, and
not downwards, to become either a monkey or a Hottentot. Take,
for example, a man who, as you wished to have us believe, is several
times reincarnated on this planet; or suppose that he is on the first
occasion a rich man, he lives in luxury, and at the end of a certain
time dies or leaves the body. After a time he comes back again as a
poor man. He perhaps in himself is good; still he is poor, and per¬
chance he may not be able to get along. Well, he has a wife and
family, and not being able to put bread in their mouths or his own he is
tempted to steal or commit murder. Where, then, is the progression ?
He before was a rich man, and does, as it were, no harm; then dies, is
reincarnated, and lives a worse life than he did before.”
At this point I remarked that, as I understood the doctrine of the re¬
incar nationists, man necessarily progressed to perfection on each reincar¬
nation, and could not fall back. To this Glaucus answered:—
“ Every man on earth is a free moral agent, working out his own
destiny. If he were there simply as a piece of moral machinery, doing
only the good or the bad inevitably ordained, he would of himself be
performing no expiation, and making no compensation. How could his
spirit advance under such conditions ?
“ Again, another argument. According to Kardec, a man may be
punished in one of the lives which he may pass on earth without any
reasonable or conscious cause, consoling himself with the assumed fact
that he has done wrong in a previous existence. Is this not rather hard
on him who thus suffers, apparently without justification ? I will use a
living example. Take the case of a well-known enthusiastic devotee of
the doctrine of reincarnation. He has been condemned for an imputed
offence of which he claims to be innocent. Does he console himself
with the reflection that he is being justly punished for a fault committed
in another life ? If so, let him cease to rail at his persecutors, for they
are not responsible, and accept his punishment as an expiation and ‘ a
crown of glory.’ He cannot claim to be a martyr, for he is not suffering
for a cause, but on his own account. Such are the logical results of
this fallacious and absurd doctrine.
“ Rest assured that punishments for misdeeds committed in the earth-
life are put upon us after we leave the flesh, and that we always know
why we are being punished, so that we may see the error into which
we have fallen.
“ To resume where we left off when you presented your question. I
will speak of myself. When I appeared on earth, in what was a won¬
derful city, namely, Rome, I was called Glaucus. This was over 1800
years ago. Supposing that I had been reincarnated within that time
on this same earth (which if it had taken place must have been a
| number of times), I will ask you, who should I be now? Should I be
) | still Glaucus, or somebody else ? What would be my name ? In fact,
(! I should have so many names that I should hardly myself know who I
)| am. Again, take yourself, dear friend, Who are you? You say you
(j have been told that you have been reincarnated so many times on this
I little planet; but who will you be when your spirit leaves the body
i again ?
|| , “ Take another view: let me appeal to your affections. You have a
mother and a father, whom you love dearly, and your good mother you
| love better than all. You also have a dear wife. Tell me what relation
will your mother bear to you in the spirit world, when all the other
mothers who have borne you in other reincarnations may equally claim
you ? Which will have the best claim upon you ? And which will you
claim as a mother ? Do you not see how absurd all this is ? Take
your dear, good wife, whom you love so well, and who loves you so
! dearly, and who has so much faith in you; when you meet her again in
the spirit world, do you not wish to have her affections there ? If you
| have children, do you want to feel that in the spirit world you will see
them reincarnated as the children of somebody else ?
“ Just a few words more before closing. Affection, what is it ? Is it
a thing of the body, or of the spirit ? If it is a thing of the body, then
believe in reincarnation, for the longer you live on earth the greater will
: be your happiness. But this is not so, Without love or affection what
Maech 9, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
would existence be, here or hereafter ? Affection belongs to the soul, or
spirit. The family ties, relations, and affections which you form on
earth will for ever remain the same.’’
On another occasion Glaucus enlarged on this subject of the affections,
remarking that “ the affections formed on earth always follow us, and
are never changed, except that we love our dear ones more in the spirit
than in the earth life.”
We were discussing in our little circle the question presented in the
death of children before they had partaken of earth-life, or realised any
feeling of affection, in its bearing on reincarnation and the continuation
of an existence that might be said to have scarcely commenced.
Glaucus, who had been listening to our various arguments, soon wrote
as follows:—
“ When a young child dies, it is the result of error in some form—a
thing happens which should not have happened. It is generally the
result of accidental causes, near or remote, the natural laws governing
the body having been broken. The young spirit has taken its flight
before the child has really entered on life ; then the young spirit must
receive its education here in the spirit world.
“ Speaking of Natalie’s love for her mother, although she lost her
when she was so young, you think her education on earth was the cause
of the development of her affection in spirit life. Do you not know that
the spirit receives education here, and that in this spirit world the
education comes quicker and the affections are more rapidly developed ?
She who bears the child will always be, as was intended, the mother.
The spirit in such cases is brought to know that it should have passed a
period on earth, with certain personal relations, and that it must always
respect and love that parent which accident prevented it from knowing
and loving on earth. And in this way the spirit will ultimately become
as well developed in filial affection in the spirit-life as if it had gone
through its natural experience on earth. Natalie’s love for her mother,
whom she met here, was not the result of her education on earth. She
always loved her although she knew her not.”
I am apprehensive that this communication will exceed reasonable
limits, so for the present I will conclude these extracts. Glaucus has
promised to speak on some future occasion “ Of the planets, and to give
a description of them, their countries, their people, and their habits.”
This will of course be interesting, as more fully developing the progress
in the future life which our Venerable Teacher has marked out. I shall
take the liberty to send the message to you when received.
(Cte.) G. J. de Bullet.
Paris. ■■■ 
SPIRITUALISTS AND THE OLDHAM ELECTION.
Sir,—The Oldham election, which is held as a triumph for the
Liberals, must be regarded as an advantage to Spiritualists, as the
paragraph below from the Oldham Standard of Feb. 28th will show.
Messrs. Kershaw and Smith must have credit for being alive to the situa¬
tion. Mr. Hibbert, being a magistrate, has undoubtedly given his opinion
relating to the late prosecutions of mediums as such, and it is pleasing
that the deputation has been favourably received and a fair promise
given. It should serve as a hint to other places, at election times, to
wait upon the members, asking their opinion and support of those great
questions at present engaging the attention of Spiritualists.
“ On Tuesday Messrs. Thomas Kershaw and John Smith (Henshaw-
street) waited on the two candidates for the representation of the borough
to ascertain their views in reference to the laws under which Dr. Mouck
and other Spiritualist mediums have recently been prosecuted. Colonel
Lees promised that he would look into the question, and if returned to
Parliament would give it his very serious and careful consideration. Mr.
Hibbert expressed his opinion that the law had been strained in the convic¬
tions mentioned, and said that if returned to Parliament, should a
bill be brought in for the repeal of the obsolete laws complained of, he
would give it his consideration, and would probably vote for their repeal.
The deputation stated that there are about 2,000 Spiritualists in Oldham,
and it is believed they number amongst them from 300 to 400 electors.”
John Hartley.
Hyde, Manchester, March 2nd, 1877.
WORDS AND DEFINITIONS.
Sir,—It was a wise saying of Plato, “ Show me a man who can divide
and define, and I will place him with the gods.” To distinguish, define,
and illustrate seems the chief business of philosophy. But what is to
be understood by the words transcendental and spiritual, unless they
mean that which we must admit to exist, but which transcends the
powers of the human understanding—such as the subtlety of matter and
causation which Tyndall regards as “ mystical and transcendental.”
He means, I suppose, the unseen, unfelt, and unknowable, except in the
observed results. We also have the expressions “formative law,” and
“ structural principle,” meaning a power and reason in the nature of
things which we do not understand. But, if there is any clear and
definite meaning to the words transcendental and spiritual, I should be
thankful for the explanation and illustration, if possible. In the first
place, we must remember that there are no impressions of the mind but
those which directly or indirectly bear relation to the objective. Mr.
Lewes refers the general laws of nature to metaphysics, but laws do not
rule, but are the rule, as he explains; they may be considered
abstractedly in thought, but really have no existence but as the “ form ”
of effects, determined by the physical nature and the conditions—as the
laws of gravity, for instance. By being “ spiritually discerned,” I
presume Tyndall means a natural and necessary inference, or let him
define or illustrate what he does mean, and so avoid mystification, for it
is quite time to require writers to define the distinct meaning of the
terms they use, or we don’t know what we are talking about; or we
must apply to them the old definition of metaphysics, as one man talking
of what he does not understand to another who cannot tell what on
earth it is he means to say.
| Of course, if we choose to term the powers in phenomena of mind
|! “ spiritual,” we may. In this sense all thought and perception are
| spiritual, which would lead us to consider all the facts of nature
(j spiritual, or a “natural magic,” as Bacon terms it in his Natural
)j History. I have no objection to the expression, since to the human
(| mind all nature is incomprehensible. The mystery is not in the nature
|| of things, but is a feeling of the human mind, like that of wonderment
j when we reach the limits of our powers; could we go further all would
seem to be as a necessity in the nature of things, so that Lewes is
I content to say that “ nature is,” and there leaves it, seeing that no
change of words explains the matter any more.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
| Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
\
!a theory relating to evil influences.
I Sir,—Mr. Mosher writes to the effect that spiritual phenomena are, in
| one sense, principally deceptions, conceived and executed by the wisdom
of “ angel guides;” that these same angel guides intentionally pervert
| and bias mediums and others as a means of intellectual and spiritual
development, and that undeveloped spirits have neither part nor lot in
the matter.
I Will Mr. Mosher tell us where, in his opinion, the proper spiritual
sphere to which this latter class go, is situated ? My own experience
| points to the assumption that this sphere is immediately contiguous to
i the earth, and reason supports this conclusion when we reflect that such
j are “ of the earth, earthy,” and are necessarily attracted thereto. That
! these do influence the more sensitive among us is well known, impelling
j them to deviations from the path of moral rectitude in various ways.
This being so, what necessity is there for angel guides to stoop down and
I go out of their way for the purpose of increasing these “ evil” prompt¬
ings ? They can, and no doubt do, bring good out of this evil by turning
I it to a higher purpose, but that they are directly instrumental in pro-
| ducing it is an idea akin to the belief that the Deity can of set purpose
i bring upon mankind “ a delusion and a lie.”
| Mr. Mosher suggests that deceased relatives are represented by these
j angel guardians in the various materialisation phenomena. Who are
Vj our angel guardians (those, at least, nearest to us) but these very
near and dear relatives themselves? If they are with us from time
(I to time, why should not they themselves prove the fact of their “life
I after death,” instead of leaving the matter to others. For what
n reason this vast structure of deception on the part of our angel
(| guides, if they who have gone before are still with us, yearning to give
! a token of their presence ? Should we not look askance at these same
(j guides after discovering the gigantic fraud perpetrated upon our unsus-
(i pecting selves ?
| I can only go with Mr. Mosher thus far, that those forms which step
11 out from the cabinet in materialisation seances are not necessarily the
(j actual spirits of the departed, but may be psychic duplicates or
)i “ doubles ” (akin to those projected by mortals in the flesh), projected
! by our friends into the circle, there clothed with atoms for the purpose
11 of becoming visible, and then governed from a distance by the originators.
I But there is no reason why these “ spiritually manufactured automatons ”
(I should not be the work of our friends themselves. A. J. Smart.
11 Cardiff.  
THE ISLE OF WIGHT LECTURES.
i | Sir,—What does your captious correspondent who hails from Hyde
(j want P Did he expect me to include Spiritualism in “ Scepticism,” and
11 treat Spiritualists as “ Sceptics ?” Because, if not, it is difficult to see
(j how he could find a place for either in a lecture the subject of which he
(| correctly gives as “Twenty Years’ Experience of Scepticism and
11 Sceptics.” The next time I go to Hyde, perhaps I had better consult
(i Mr. Broderick as to how I shall deal with my subject,
j! George Sexton.
) | City United Club, Ludgate-circus, E.C.
March 2nd, 1877.
TRANSFORMATION PHENOMENA.
( j Sir,—In an old copy of the Spiritual Times (June 3rd, 1865) there is,
/ among other “Remarkable Spiritual Experiences of a Clergyman,” the
(i following, which is interesting in the present day when form manifesta-
| tions are so much more frequent, and when we who view them are so
/ often perplexed as to the exact source to which they are to be referred.
The writer has been describing other manifestations through “a
) | friend’s son, one of our mediums.” After these were over, the medium
(| wrote: “ Mr. K., mark well the medium’s actions, from his head to his
5 i waist, and keep very quiet.” The narration proceeds thus:—
“ We heard a great rattle like some electrical machine, and the room
j | began to tremble. The medium stood up, we could see him distinctly,
}! he stood erect, his arms stretched out in the form of a cross; then he
)j lifted his hands to his head, slipping his fingers through his hair some
I half dozen times. Presently he turned to the wall and shook hands
) i apparently with some one, then he turned right round, and appeared to
) | do the same with some one else, then with another also, then he appeared
(| to embrace a fourth, then shook hands with some one else, and so on for
i a considerable time, as if he had been meeting with a considerable
11 number of friends, who had all met together for some gladsome occasion.
I Then, after having saluted them all, he again stood quiet. We could
now see from his head to his waist quite clearly, the light was clearer.
| Presently his appearance was changed, and there stood before us a man
of about middle age, with a bushy beard of sandy colour, broad face,
high cheek bones, broad full forehead, and benevolent countenance.”
Would it not be well worth while for a medium who readily obtains
form manifestations—say Mr. Eglinton—to sit for such phenomena ? It
seems to me that they would throw much light on a subject at present
very dark and perplexing, viz., the exact use made, in a given case of
i form-manifestation, of the medium’s body.
118 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 9, 1877.
As I am writing, may I say that “ A Lawyer’s ” suggestion as to pro¬
tection of mediums appears to me admirable, and to satisfy exactly the
resolutions of the Defence Committee which you lately published.
What does Mr. Volckman wish the committee to do to remove mis¬
conception and false statements about Slade ? No daily or weekly paper
will print anything about him except abuse, and if they did editorial j
comments would cast ridicule and doubt on anything said. The wilfully
blind must be left alone. M. A. (Oxon.;
DR. MONCK.
There are some incidents connected with the trial and
conviction of Dr. Monck, the spirit medium, as an impostor,
which deserve examination. The circumstance in his
favour which induced Spiritualists to defend him is, that he
is a strong medium, in whose presence solid objects occa¬
sionally move about in broad daylight in houses which he has
never entered before, in the presence of sceptical witnesses,
and under conditions where he could not by any artificial
means produce such results. These results have been be¬
yond mistake absolute facts, which could in no way be in¬
validated by anything he might say or do on other occasions.
The vital circumstances against him when he was charged |
under the Vagrancy Act, at Huddersfield, were, that in the j
first place he had a great quantity of conjuring apparatus in
his baggage, and that Mr. Lodge deposed on oath that Dr. !
Monck had confessed to him that he had practised imposition
upon sitters at stances. As a set-off to his possession of con¬
juring apparatus, it was given in evidence that he had used I
similar apparatus at public lectures when exposing the tricks j
of those conjurors who opposed Spiritualism. Another point |
on the other side is that he had not used such apparatus for
a considerable time previously, and was not at Huddersfield
in fulfilment of any engagement for the public exposure of |
jugglers. ' _ • .
Had the presence of conjuring apparatus in his boxes been !
the only evidence against him, it would not necessarily have |
proved anything more than gross carelessness on his part,
and that he deserved to get into trouble, because a man
publicly recognised to any great extent in connection with
a great movement has duties to others as well as to himself,
and should do nothing which could bring down upon the
cause he represent^ even the semblance of suspicion. But,
when in addition, a well known resident in Huddersfield
swore that Dr. Monck had confessed imposture to him upon
his knees, the two facts taken together caused some
Spiritualists to subscribe to Dr. Monck’s defence on the
ground merely that his case might, if possible, have a fair
hearing at law.
In the Daily Telegraph of February 3rd last will be
found a report of the hearing before Barons Cleasby and
Pollock of Dr. Monck’s appeal against his conviction at
Huddersfield. The detailed account of the circumstances
of the conviction is given apparently with considerable
fairness, the point that he had used similar conjuring appa¬
ratus to expose jugglers who imitated Spiritual phenomena,
not being left out; in fact, all the way through the sum¬
mary appears to have been drawn up by a person thoroughly
acquainted with the case. This being the case, how is it
that the most vital point of all—Dr. Monck’s confession to
Mr. Henry Bedford Lodge—is left out of the Telegraph
report? Nobody but Dr. Monck and Mr. Lodge were pre¬
sent when the alleged confession was made, and if any
reason were known why Mr. Lodge’s evidence should not
have been accepted, it was clearly the duty of Dr. Monck’s
solicitor, in the police-court, to have brought forward any !
of the antecedents of Mr. Lodge, from his youth upwards,
tending to show that his evidence could not be trusted, j
As the solicitor did not do so, the only just inference j
of course is that the solicitor, acting in the interest of his ]
client, had ascertained that the testimony of Mr. Lodge j
could not be discredited. All the responsibility on this j
head rests with the solicitor. No evidence showing that ]
Mr. Lodge’s statements should be received with caution, j
having been brought before the Huddersfield police-court, |
what is the reason that the said evidence is left out alto- J
gether in the able and exhaustive summary of the case in j
the Telegraph of Feb. 3rd? Because, if the whole of the j
facts were as there stated, there is no evidence whatever on 1
| | which Dr. Monck should have been convicted; for, in the
| | first place, he did not take any money for the seance ; in the
I second place, before the sitting began, he told them that
j they must “judge for themselves” as to the cause of any-
| thing they might witness; and, in the third place, there is
| no evidence, apart from the alleged confession to Mr. Lodge,
j that what took place was jugglery.
(| The amount of credulity of the public and of law courts
i in relation to facts which oppose their prejudices is wonder-
| ful. For instance, at the Huddersfield seance Dr. Monck
j asked a lady to sit on the lid of Mr.«Hepplestone’s piano;
j she did so, and a note sounded ; Dr. Monck was close to the
| piano at the time. Mr. Lodge then asked if the spirits
would play some other note, whereupon Dr. Monck
“ stamped,” and Mr. Lodge said “ That’s you.” But
although Dr. Monck did stamp, it is not stated that a note
sounded on the second occasion, and our assertion is that if
anybody goes into any private house and jumps in the air
| so high that his head makes a hole in the ceiling, then
| comes down upon the floor upon both his heels, he could not
'j sound a note of a piano not his own, while the lid is down,
11 and a lady sitting upon it. By “ sounding a note” we mean
|i bringing down the hammer upon the wire by depressing the
| key. This is a common and genuine manifestation in
j Spiritualism in connection with mediums possessing powers
j similar to those of Dr. Monck. Mr. H. D. Jencken, bar-
I rister-at-law, secretary to the Association for the Codifica-
| tion of the Law of Nations, frequently obtains these mani-
| festations in his own house, and in the houses of his friends
I through the mediumship of his wife. In the evidence given
| against Dr. Monck, it further appears that he and a lady
| using one hand each, held a slate with a fragment of pencil
j upon it beneath the table, in order to obtain the direct spirit
I writing which commonly enough is obtained under these
circumstances, the partial darkness underneath the table
| being sometimes one of the necessary conditions to obtain
the results. A button was then pulled off the lady’s dress
“ rather violently,” and laid on the top of the slate. Now,
our assertion is that if Dr. Monck ceased to hold one corner
i of the slate, and used his hand to tug a button off a lady’s
I dress, in the first place she * must have felt that she was
holding the slate by herself and that Dr. Monck’s hand had
been withdrawn from the other end, and that, further, his
| | tugging at the button must have been more or less palpable
I I to everybody present. The credulity of the prejudiced is
j enormous.
| i Another aspect of the case now demands notice. At the
I hearing of the appeal, Mr. Matthews, Q.C., who appeared
| on behalf of Dr. Monck, is reported by the Daily Telegraph
j to have said: “There had, it was true, been conjuring
II tricks.” On what authority did he make this statement?
ilt is quite certain that had Spiritualists known that he in-
| tended to make any such assertion, or that had they believed
I such a statement to be true, scarcely any money would have
| been subscribed to fight Dr. Monck’s appeal, though a very
I little might have been given merely on the ground that he
| should have a fair hearing. In any future attacks upon
| mediums in law courts, none but thorough-going Spirit-
| ualists should be engaged either as counsel or solicitors; or
/j should circumstances arise under which it is necessary to
j retain some disbeliever, it should be done only upon the
j strict understanding that the whole case has to be fought
>| out on the ground of the reality of the phenomena.
Lastly, it should be brought into full relief that Messrs.
|| Lodge and Hepplestone, the chief witnesses against Dr.
j Monck, had no wish to prosecute him in the first instance,
| and were put into the witness-box against their desire. The
j real prosecutor was Mr. Hilton, the chief constable of Hud-
| dersfield, who was not present at the seance, and, so far as
I we know, had about as much right to interfere in the case
1 as he would have did he prosecute a medium for giving a
seance in his absence at a private house anywhere at the
West End of London, and did he force those who were
| present at the time to come forward as witnesses. Mr.
I Hilton is the paid officer of the Mayor and Corporation of
i Huddersfield, so upon this body will rest any historical
I stigma which may be attached hereafter to all those who
I during the past six months have been attacking those mes¬
meric sensitives known as “ mediums,” the genuineness,
March 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“or otherwise,” of whose questioned manifestations will ||j
hereafter be decided by the experienced, upon the testimony jjl
of the prosecutors themselves in relation to points of detail, j
the full import of which they did not understand when they jj
gave their evidence. ij!
A TRANCE ADDRESS. j |
Last Saturday afternoon, a meeting of some of the members and ijj
friends of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at ijj
38, Great Russell-st'reet, Bloomsbury, London, at which a new trance i|i
medium, Mr. W. J. Colville, of Brighton, attended, to allow those ijj
present an opportunity of witnessing some of his powers. He was ijj
accompanied by his friend, Dr. J. King, who asked that those present j) j
would select the subject of the trance address. Some remarks on ijj
“ The Identity of the Communicating Spirits ” were then requested. j j j
Mr. Colville took his seat alone on the platform, Dr. King having j/j
stated that unless he were thus somewhat separated from the other j j j
persons present, he would be less perfectly influenced by the communi- j j j
eating intelligences. He quickly passed into the trance state, then rose j) j
and said that the subject which had been proposed was of deep interest j jj
and importance to every one present. They all wished to know whether j j I
the soul, when it left the form, retained its conscious individuality, and j jj
could return to communicate with mortals. Those spirits who returned j j j
exhibited the same personal peculiarities which tended to identify them j j j
when they lived upon the earth plane. The majority of the commu- jji
nications of spirits who claimed to be particular persons, and who had j j
returned to circles where the sitters were pure and truthful persons, j j
with noble aspirations, had been for the most part of a reliable cha- j j
racter. When such was not the case, it was not always the fault of j
those who were seeking to communicate with spirits; for the pro- j
cesses of communication were intricate and varied, quite beyond jj
the comprehension of mortals, and indeed of undeveloped spirits, jj
Taking all these things into. consideration, it was the exception i j
when untruthful spirits came to truthful and aspiring mortals; in j j
nine cases out of ten the messages which came to such were jj
reliable. But there were thousands who sought to establish j j
intercourse with spirits merely to gratify curiosity, or for amusement, j
Those who, from unworthy motives, dealt with such a serious subject, in j j j
the majority of cases received untruthful and unreliable communicaj jjj
tions; they also obtained some messages from those who claimed to be jjj
individual human souls who had once lived upon the earth, and who, in jj
fact, were nothing of the kind. Those who investigated for the sake of j j
curiosity generally received untruthful communications; after that they ! j j
often gave up Spiritualism in disgust, and declared it to be the work of jjj
demons. In these enlightened times the doctrine of the individuality of jjj
the devil was generally believed to have no foundation in fact; even j j
among the most orthodox it was professed to be believed more as a jjj
matter of conventionality than as a living truth; but although there was j j j
no personal devil, thousands and millions of evil spirits surrounded the j j j
earth, and they could and did communicate with mortals. Those who j j j
satin spirit circles were not safe from their intrusion, simply because jjj
they led good outward lives, provided their inward lives did not corre- jji
spond; no outward semblance of piety was of any use in shielding them j j j
from evil spirits, but when the aspirations of the soul were for God it jjj
was impossible for evil spirits to draw near or to communicate, without j j j
the sitters being aware of their untruthfulness. If a lying spirit jjj
assumed the name of a departed friend, then urged the sitter to do j | j
wrong, if the latter had pure aspirations he would be able to detect at j j
once whether the communication were genuine or false. There was not j j j
a worse spirit in the eternal world than could find its match among men j j j
in the body. Good people were liable to be attacked by evil spirits, i j
but would always be aware of their presence, and could resist them, jjj
Even Jesus of Nazareth was liable to be so attacked, and after resisting j j j
the temptation he arose higher, purer, and better than before. The jjj
question had arisen whether elementary spirits, fragmentary spirits, jjj
spirits of air, fire, and water came forth to personate departed friends, ijj
Modern science had shown.that these four things, which were once jjj
supposed to be elementary, were not so in reality, but that there were a jjj
great number of elementary substances; supposing even that spirits jji
existed connected with these substances, it would be impossible that they j j j
could personate the souls of the departed, because mind could only jjj
communicate with mind of its own nature. On earth the communication i j j
of men with each other was in a great measure spiritual, and in the jjj
same manner spiritual perception would help to let mortals know jjj
whether particular communications addressed to them were genuine, jjj
Evil spirits had not the power to give particulars about private conversa- j j
tions which had taken place between a man and his friend since jjj
departed; they might give true names and dates, and assume to some j j j
extent the form of a departed person, and they could tell public jjj
events in connection with that departed friend, but were unable jjj
to find out private confidential words, known only to the inquirer and j j j
his former Mend, but to nobody else. Spiritualism was the greatest j j j
boon of modern times, but it had its dangers, and those who would j j
escape them must be full of love, of desire and aspiration for true jjj
nobility and greatness. Many of the spirits of the lower animals did jjj
not retain conscious individuality after the death of the body, but the j j j
spirit within every man and woman retained its individual consciousness j j j
throughout all eternity. There were some beings in the spirit world so jjj
low that they could scarcely be said to have a conscious individuality, ijj
but were dimly aware that they had an existence of some kind. Low ijj
spirits approached people incapable of receiving high and noble com- ijj
munications; they sometimes took possession of their mediums, and jjj
reflected the thoughts and desires in the mind of the sensitive under jji
their control. The departed friends of those mediums were too high up jjj
in the spirit world to be able to approach them when surrounded by
119
such influences; the undeveloped spirits then reproduced the thoughts
of the medium, and claimed to be the persons with whom the medium
and the sitters desired to communicate.
The communicating intelligence then stated that he was ready to
answer any questions which might be put to him by the listeners.
Is it possible to get a pure communication through an impure medium ?
Not if the medium is by himself, and in his usual state; but a medium
is, at different times, in different states. Although he may not be a
good man or woman, his occasional desire to know truth makes it
possible for truthful spirits to communicate through him for the moment.
If truthful people surround an untruthful medium in a room, they can
sometimes bring their influence to bear upon the medium and his
spiritual surroundings, so as to secure trustworthy communications.
Are some physical manifestations produced by sub-human spirits f
We do not believe it. We have been present at many stances, and
those who communicated have always been the spirits of departed persons.
This has been our experience, and that of all truthful spirits with whom
we are acquainted. But, having said so much, we cannot assert it as a
fact that lower spirits do not come sometimes; we only state what is
within the range of our own experience. It is possible for a low spirit
to take the form of an animal, and even to appear in a room, but the
intelligence connected therewith would be so low that it could not take
part in the communications.
Have you been long in the spirit world ?
Twenty-seven years. Some of the other guides of the medium
have been longer in the spirit-world, and others have been in it but a short
time.
Why cannot I get communications from close friends ?
You must remember that certain spirits only can communicate through
particular mediums, so the necessary conditions may not exist to enable
them to speak to you. Our medium cannot get messages from some of
his own friends for this reason.
Cannot you get the messages from those friends and give them to himt
Sometimes we can and do; but with some of his friends we cannot
communicate ourselves, their conditions being different to ours.
Can the departed friend of anybody in this room communicate now ?
' We think not, because this medium has been developed only for
inspirational speaking and inspirational poetry, but the experiment
might be tried at a private circle. The person desiring to communicate
with a particular spirit Mend of his own should hold the hand of the
medium.
Many other questions were asked and answered, after which the com¬
municating intelligence said that the medium would deliver an
inspirational poem if somebody in the audience would propose a subject.
Mr. Charles Blackburn then suggested “ Universal Progression,” and,
after a pause of about one minute, the medium uttered an extempora¬
neous poem, of 100 or 200 lines, without stoppage or hesitation; although
they were of a remarkable nature, considering the circumstances under
which they were given, they are scarcely good enough for publication.
Mr. E. Wood, of 36, Greaves-street, Oldham, will speak on Spirit¬
ualism on Sunday, March 18th, at Newchurch, near Rawtenstall.
Several interesting communications have come to hand too late for
publication this week. Those who desire that their letters should be
promptly inserted, should take care that they reach the office of The
Spiritualist on the Monday or Tuesday.
Edouard Buguet.—In the course of a gossiping letter from Paris,
Mr. Firman says:—“ M. Leymarie seems to be in perfect health,
although he is somewhat paler than usual, the result, I suppose, of nine
months’ solitary confinement. He stated to me the other night that he
often felt the presence of spmt Mends, and that on one occasion he was
drawn right out of his bed and placed on his feet, with his right hand
in the air, and that he distinctly felt the strong grasp of a hand, which
appeared to melt away by degrees. What seems strange is that just two
weeks after Leymarie came out of prison Buguet was pardoned, so that it
appears after all that they only wanted poor M. Leymarie. Buguet has
said since his liberation that his ‘ conscience is now free,’ and that he
‘ will never cheat again,’ if he should ever regain his mediumship.
The general belief of the Spmtualists here is that he is connected with
the Prefecture, consequently is a secret agent of the police. He had
the impudence a few days ago to write to M. Leymarie, asking him to
meet him, but M. Leymarie refused to have any communication with
him in any way whatever. Buguet sent his request to M. Leymarie on
a post-card, with both names written in full, the place of rendezvous
being one of the largest cafes in Paris.”
Trade Tricks.—It is worth knowing that one or two London
wholesale agents for periodicals, refuse, from theological and other
motives, to supply the newsvendors, to whom they send parcels in the
country, with the spiritual journals. It is also a fact that several local
booksellers, who are well supported by Spiritualists who get this
journal by post, are aiding and abetting these attempts to check the
sale of literature connected with Spiritualism. We know of not a few
cases of this kind. One gentleman has written to us that he wearied
his newsagent by insisting that he should supply the paper, and, after
various excuses and vexatious delays, the statement was made that the
London agents refused to supply it; he at once went to another
stationer where he could get it promptly, and withdrew all his custom
for all classes of goods from the first one. Similar impediments are
more numerous than those of our readers are aware who are good
customers to shopkeepers, who themselves, or by their London agents,
are working actively to check the progress of Spiritualism. The remedy
is easy ; all custom should be withdrawn from such people, and they
and their London agents left to solace themselves as well as they can
on the results of their trade tricks. These remarks apply also to a few
newsvendors in the suburbs of London.
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 9, 1877.
THE MIDDLESEX MAGISTRATES AND THE SLADE !
CASE. :
At the meeting of the Middlesex magistrates yesterday afternoon, j)
Mr. W. P. Bodkin had a motion on the agenda paper to the effect that, i(
“ in the opinion of the Court, it was inexpedient and undesirable that ij
any account of the proceedings of justices considered in private should ij
be communicated to the newspapers.,> Mr. Bodkin was not in Court ] j
when called upon by the Marquis of Salisbury to proceed with his I
motion, and thereupon, I
Mr. Ritchie, M.P., moved that the standing orders insisting on notice j
of motion should be suspended, in order to afford him an opportunity of |
bringing on another, which he had previously intended as an amend- j|i
ment to the one to be moved by Mr. Bodkin. His motion was to the ji!
effect that the magistrates should not oppose the writ nisi from the j
Court of Queen’s Bench, calling upon them to show cause why a j j
mandamus should not issue to compel them to rehear the Slade appeal | j j
on its merits, on the ground that the decision was that of the Assistant- | ]
Judge only, and not of the magistrates.
The Marquis of Salisbury asked the Court to consider before they | i
resolved to discuss a motion which involved a direct attack on the ijj
Assistant Judge. Ml
The Assistant-Judge said, although Mr. Ritchie had given him no j|j
notice of motion, he was quite prepared to meet it. If the Court |jj
thought fit to suspend the standing orders, he should be glad now to give, jji
an explanation which he hoped would be deemed perfectly satisfactory, jj j
Mr. Ritchie said he would not have thought of bringing forward a new j j
motion without notice. j j j
The Clerk of the Peace having read the writ, it was moved that the i j
Court should not show cause against the rule, and that that resolution j j j
should be forwarded to the proper authorities. ; i j
The Assistant-Judge said the mandamus was not addressed to any jjj
individual member, it was addressed to the Court. With regard to the | j|
statement that the judgment he delivered was not that of the Court, he I j I
begged leave to state one or two facts, which would probably bring Iji
them to a different conclusion. It had been stated recently that the jji
Assistant-Judge went into his own room, and not into the magistrates’ jji
room. That was contrary to the fact, as he accompanied his friends : j j
into their room, and it was only when the discussion was conducted in jjj
high tones that he said he had better retire into his own room, and pre- j j j
pare an opinion which he would submit to the magistrates. He after- i j j
wards returned into the room where they all were, and he ventured to jjj
. seek their indulgence whilst he read his opinion. He left their room in j j j
the full belief that every member present was willing to concur in it. jj'j
His opinion then read was heard in silence, and there was notone jjj
magistrate present who ventured to say that it was not the opinion of j j j
the Court., Not a single dissentient voice was heard. He trusted that jjj
the Court would instruct the proper officer to appear to the mandamus. j j j
Mr. Ritchie said the learned gentleman had made one or two state- j/j
ments which did not coincide with what had occurred. The learned jjj
Assistant-Judge came into the room and remained for a moment, not jjj
longer. He must confess that in his coming and leaving he treated his jjj
brother magistrates with scant courtesy. The justices had no time to jjj
make any observations, and the learned gentleman evidently thought jjj
that they ought to take his ruling without their retiring from the bench j j j
at all. What occurred after the learned judge left was this. They jjj
talked over the matter, and, after having waited for some considerable jjj
time, they sent in to him more than once, asking him to come into their j/j
room. On each occasion he sent word that he was busy, and could not jjj
come. They then proceeded to deliberate on the matter, and came to jjj
the conclusion which had been made public. They sent the resolution jjj
to the learned judge, and shortly afterwards he came back with a written jj \
judgment prepared, although, in the first place, he ought to have cou- j I
sidered the matter with his brother magistrates. He said that was the j j
judgment he intended to give. He had never read the resolutions at j j
which the majority of the magistrates had arrived.
The Assistant-Judge—Indeed I did. jj j
Mr. Ritchie said he would, of course, withdraw the observation. The jjj
majority against his judgment was large, he believed 26 to 5. He jjj
certainly understood the learned gentleman to say he intended to ijj
deliver his own judgment, and that he was not to be bound by the j)j
majority of the magistrates present. If he was not mistaken, those were jjj
the very words used by the Assistant-Judge, who now said that when jjj
he left the room he was under the impression that it was the judgment jj j1
of the magistrates. How had he arrived at such a conclusion ? A j j
magistrate even said that if the judge delivered that judgment as the jji
opinion of the bench, he would publicly say that it was not. The j j i
Assistant-Judge said that such a proceeding would be a great scandal, jji
and if it were done he would retire from the bench. He (Mr. Ritchie), jjj
felt some doubt as to the powers of the magistrates, but he had since jjj
made inquiries, and ascertained that the voice of the chairman only ijj
counted as that of one of the other magistrates. The chairman was, jjj
therefore, bound to bow to the decisionof the majority. It appeared to ijj
him that it was highly desirable that some proper conclusion should be iji
arrived at. (Applause.)
. Sir John Heron Maxwell said Mr. Edlin was distinctly told before iji
they left their room that the judgment he was about to deliver was his |y j
own and that of three other magistrates, and not that of the majority, jyj
Sir John went on to read the affidavits which had been signed by Mr. jjj
Ritchie, M.P., Lord Polliugton, Mr. Edwards, M.P., and himself, which iji
he said fully bore out the statement given to the court by Mr. Ritchie. jji
Lord Pollington said he happened to be the magistrate who had been ij j
mentioned as having handed to the reporters the decision at which the j \ j
majority of the magistrates had arrived; but such was not really the jji
fact. It was not his hand which presented it, but he would certainly jji
say that his heart went with it. The Assistant-Judge was told by him j j j
that if he delivered the judgment which he had prepared, he (Lord jjj i
Pollington) would state in open court that it was given against the votes 11 ;
of the majority. He deeply regretted that his want of moral courage
j had led to that mandamus on the Bench, as he ought to have got up
and made the fact public that the judgment was not that of the
majority. It was his want of moral courage which had led to a gross
miscarriage of justice. He could tell the Assistant-Judge that if he
ever again delivered any judgment against the majority, he would cer¬
tainly get up and state in open court that it was so. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Antrobus said that he would move an amendment, to the effect
that the Clerk of the Peace should be instructed to instruct counsel to
appear and state that it was the opinion of the Court that the man¬
damus should be made absolute. (Laughter and applause.)
The Marquis of Salisbury said the Court was placed in considerable
difficulty, but he was rather led to think that the original motion would
be most convenient.
Mr. Antrobus withdrew bis amendment.
The Marquis of Salisbury then read the affidavit of Mr. Ritchie,
M.P., which has already been made public, and said that if the Clerk
of the Peace would have to prepare the instruction he did not envy
him the task, as he would have to bring into one coherent whole the
different views expressed. There had been a most unfortunate misun¬
derstanding, but he had no doubt that the Assistant-Judge had acted
with perfect bond fides.
The Assistant-Judge craved the indulgence of the Court for a
moment. He had listened with the greatest surprise to what had
fallen from Sir John Heron Maxwell, for whom he had had the most
sincere respect and personal regard. He must, however, most emphat¬
ically and most distinctly assert that he never did avow his intention of
reading his judgment whether it was-or whether it was not the decision
of the Court. No word to that effect had fallen from his lips. He had
had a correspondence of a friendly nature with the noble lord, in which
he did not contradict the statements he had made.
Lord Pollington: I did not think it worth while.
The Assistant-Judge said that the noble lord might not think it worth
while, but his letter was couched in friendly terms. He had not received
notice of that discussion, otherwise there were many magistrates who were
present on the occasion from whom he could have had a complete con¬
firmation of what he had stated. No man occupying his position had
ever been placed in such a difficulty. He had presided at the court for
three years, at the Appeal Court at Westminster, and at the Assessment
Sessions, and never on any occasion had so much as a word of un¬
pleasantness passed between them. He did say that it had been the
practice on points of law to submit to the opinion of the Assistant-Judge.
The whole impression left upon his mind was that, although they might
have differed from him, they were prepared to submit their opinion
to his.
Lord Pollington said that the Assistant-Judge had already spoken,
and it was against the rules of the court to speak twice on the same
motion.
The Marquis of Salisbury said that the Assistant-Judge was placed
in a peculiar position, and he thought he ought to be allowed to proceed.
The Assistant-Judge then entered into other details, explained the
nature of the mandamus, and concluded by asking the Court to instruct
the Clerk of the Peace to give the usual instructions for counsel to
appear at the higher tribunal in answer to the writ.
After a few words from Mr. Basil W. Smith, who confirmed Mr.
Ritchie’s statement regarding what had occurred in the magistrates’
room,
The Marquis of Salisbury said that he would put the resolution to the
vote—“ That that Court should not show cause against the rule, and
that such resolution be forwarded to the proper authorities.”
On a show of hands being taken, thirty-five magistrates voted in
favour of the resolution, and only eight against the latter, including the
vote of the Assistant-Judge.—Daily News, February 23rd.
Next Sunday, Miss Harrison, and a lady friend from Shipley, will
occupy the platform of the Oldham Society of Spiritualists at the
Temperance Hall in that town.
Mr. J. C. Bundy, secretary to the Religio-Philosophical Publishing
House, Chicago, writes that he expects to be in London for a few days
during the coming summer.
Goldwin Smith, in his Ascent of Man, in a recent number of Mac¬
millan's Magazine, says:—“ A sea anemone, if it can reflect, probably
feels as confident that it perceives everything capable of being perceived
as the man of science.”
The visit of Dr. Slade to St. Petersburg has been postponed, M.
Aksakof having decided upon the month of November as the most
suitable time. Mr. Simmons has postponed his return to America.
They have taken a small house at the Hague, and Miss Slade and Miss
Simmons are with them.
Mr. J. J. Morse in South Wales.—On Sunday, February 25th,
Mr. Morse commenced a series of semi-public meetings in Cardiff,
extending through the entire week following, concluding on the Friday
with a soiree, attended by the members and friends of the Cardiff
Progressive Institute. The addresses delivered from Monday to
Thursday inclusive, had their topics selected by the audience. The
meetings were fairly attended, and the lectures well received. Mr.
Rees Lewis acted as chairman on each occasion. On Sunday last, the
4th inst., Mr. Morse delivered two trance addresses in the Spiritualists’
(Old Freemasons’) Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne. The afternoon address
was on “ The Devil in the Light of Fancy and Fact,” and the one in the
evening had for its subject “ Man the God, and God the Man.” The
hall at night was completely filled, and the address was well received.
Mr. W. C. Robson presided. On Sunday next, March 11th, Mr. Morse
will deliver a trance address in the Spiritualists’ meeting room, Church-
gate, Nottingham, and on Wednesday evening he will give another
address, in the Mechanics’ Hall, at 8 p.m.
March 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
Loudon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting .and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism, 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL, by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. \ This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wfaiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light, of all the reason and experience possessed, by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d. ' _
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEM8 OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpeiy
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, Is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. cd.; cheap edition,
7s. ed. _
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY. A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS? OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 0d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. Bang. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6<L
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilUam Denton, 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A. BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
dhe use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. lames Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2Vois.j 10s
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
ople
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
‘ _ ' II. „ H .
III, „ ^ .
IV. „ . ,
 | , V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the.P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
7 6
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
3 6
3 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
d.
24 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitoalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . ■ . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 o
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^Tfin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans*ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . , . , . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.B. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . ,18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CART E DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton, is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM 3ENT0N, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas B.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
ed.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
AdoRhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: "‘There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO-
MENAi by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given PsychometricaUy through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Hakch 9, 1877,
Lately published, in two volumes, 8 vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gkobge
G. Hareis, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,’’“Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode, of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;'
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. - All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”— Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and'of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modern, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“ Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
aud modern anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity., It is, without the name, an Encyclopedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec ■
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser-
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: Georgb Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OP THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Headj and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.;
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.   ■ -  
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occarring spontaneously, and an appendix of: corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D., ’
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s,
Ii anIPos'tag *4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
, 38, i Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Yarley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—Londbn Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM,^ By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists,”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers .without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be .made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the,circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle-by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief, h^s no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, itris well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it .is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that,
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us but a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity,.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet   50 0 0
J.-N. T. Martheze, Esq.   20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq   20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,     15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  10 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq...,  10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq     10 0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq     10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof     10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D  10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    10 0 0
M. R. I     10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq   10 0 0
X    10 0 0
B  6 6 0
C. T        5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq.   5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun   5 0 0
A Friend        5 0 0
B            3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon f  2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie        2 2 0
Miss Whitear  ’.  2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe    '.   2 2 0
S.J.H.     2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq..........    2 0 0
W.          2 0 0
G. V.    2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D      2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D   2 0 0
A. Yacher, Esq.     2 0 0
Colonel Olcoit  2 0 0
The Baroness von Yay  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq  110
G. R. Tapp, Esq  1 1 o
Mrs. Maltby..    l 1 o
B. W. Pycock, Esq.     110
Mrs. Nos worthy  i i o
C. T. Hook, Esq .'.  110
Major Menars   110
A. Glendinning, Esq....‘...i  110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S  1 1 o
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E  110
Mrs. Hennings   i i o
Dr. George Wyld     110
Miss Allen    110
W. P. Adshead, Esq.    110
John Mould, Esq  110
J. P. Turner, Esq    l l o
J. T. Dodd, Esq.   l 1 o
Mm. Jeffreys       110*
Miss Douglas     10 0
John Scott, Esq  10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq  10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq  1 *0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory    10 0
Mrs. Tyndall     1 0-0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby  10 0
John Chapman, Esq    10 0
G. F. Green, Esq.    0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Gatling   0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq  0 10 0
A Friend.      0 10 0
A Friend  '.....  0 10 0
Miss Pearce....,    050
J.T.M    0 6 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.l
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
Reflexionen aus DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexander Gasse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
coritributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is, monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Smxiimlni
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty .words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. , Displayed Advertise;tnenis Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is.a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those'whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement. is. not. lost to view, amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom lip when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the: first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance, . “ The] Spiritualist ” will ,be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within, the‘United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of IDs' Ida.
City Publishing, Office, E. W; Allen’s,' 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
Printed for‘'the''PropHetor’ifby ; Beverid&e & Oo., at the
Holborn Printing Wo'rki.'Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Audrew-above-Bar aud St. George
the Martyr, London, and published- by E, W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.. 
